 









 

	

 

 

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

 

SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COSTS

  

B.1 FIXED RATES FOR SERVICES - INDEFINITE DELIVERY/INDEFINITE QUANTITY CONTRACT

 

The following fixed rates shall apply for payment purposes for the duration of the contract.



Contract Period 		(Date of Award through 36 months)





TOTAL BASE PERIOD LABOR CEILING:					$__________________



*To be inserted by the Government at time of Award.



The rate, or rates, set forth above cover all expenses, including report preparation, salaries, overhead, general and administrative expenses and profit.



The contractor shall voucher for only the time of the personnel whose services are applied directly to the work called for in individual Task Orders and accepted by the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR). The Government shall pay the contractor for the life of a task order at rates in effect when the task order was issued, even if performance under the task order crosses into another period. The contractor shall maintain time and labor distribution records for all employees who work under the contract. These records must document time worked and work performed by each individual on all Task Orders.  



B.2 MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM AMOUNTS



During the period specified in the “Ordering” clause, the Government shall place orders totaling a minimum of $5,000.  The total amount of all orders shall not exceed $11,500,000.00.



*To be inserted at time of award.



B.3 OTHER DIRECT COSTS (ODCs)



Direct costs not matching the categories listed below are not allowable as a charge to this contract without prior written approval of the Contracting Officer:



Other Direct Costs for the purposes of this contract shall include: travel of contractors, subcontractors, and consultants, communications such as telephone, fax, postage, delivery services, photocopying (within the limits of Federal Contracting Regulations), expert consultant or researcher fees and expenses, meeting facility rental, meeting equipment rental such as projectors, meeting supplies such as charts and markers and other services, facility, equipment and supply rental as necessary to accomplish the purpose as stated in each Task Order.  Other Direct Costs shall also include reimbursement of other services and supplies authorized by statute or regulation and as specified in individual Task Orders.  



 





 

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK



C.1 BACKGROUND



The National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) fulfills the legislative mandate of the National Science Foundation Act to



provide a central clearinghouse for the collection, interpretation, and analysis of data on scientific and engineering resources, and to provide a source of information for policy formulation by other agencies of the Federal Government.



To carry out this mandate, NCSES designs, supports, and directs about 12 periodic surveys, as well as a variety of other data collections and research projects. These surveys yield the materials for NCSES staff to compile, analyze, and disseminate quantitative information about domestic and international resources devoted to science, engineering, innovation, and technology.



Each year NCSES produces about 30 publications, which can be roughly divided into the following categories:



Detailed Statistical Tables — reports containing an extensive collection of tabulated data from each of NCSES’ surveys;



InfoBriefs — reports highlighting results from recent surveys and analyses;



Periodic "overview" reports, such as Science and Engineering Indicators or Women, Minorities, and Persons with

    Disabilities in Science and Engineering;



Special reports on focused topics such as Asia’s Rising Science and Technology Strength and Changing U.S. Output of

    Scientific Articles:1988-2003;



Working papers that may contain exploratory or speculative content on topics related to NCSES data.



Upon completion of the data processing for the major surveys, NCSES staff prepare InfoBriefs that summarize and highlight findings in the new data prior to the lengthier publishing process for the more detailed statistical reports and analyses. The data are also provided to users in a variety of formats and customized publications.



C.2 SCOPE



The scope of this statement of work is limited to provision of analytical and technical support services in response to specific task orders approved and transmitted by the NSF contracting officer. The period of performance for this task order contract will be for one (1) base year (consisting of 12 months), and two (2) one-year options. NCSES anticipates a need for approximately 10-15 task orders per year for a 3-year period. The number of task orders per year is dependent on the availability of resources and the scope and complexity of the required projects.



The Contractor shall provide expert analytic and technical support on tasks involving science and technology (S&T) issues. Such tasks may include, but are not limited to, helping to produce Science and Engineering Indicators; preparing other reports; performing data analysis, database management, data acquisition, and data presentation tasks; doing survey development work, including providing specialized statistical analysis support for survey sampling problems; and organizing workshops on S&T issues.



C.2.a Topics



While likely subject areas for tasks are specified below, some tasks may require expertise in additional areas beyond those specified. For each topic area, tasks may require familiarity with data sources, policy issues, patterns, and trends concerning subtopics in that area, including, but not limited to, those specified below. For each topic area, tasks may require familiarity with relevant international aspects of the area, as well as with U.S. aspects. In each topic area, tasks may require statistical analysis, data presentation, and survey design/development skills. It is understood that all required expertise is not likely to be available in one organization; therefore, the use of consultants and subcontractors is encouraged.



The contractor will be expected to perform tasks requiring expertise in the following areas:



Pre-college S&T education. This includes student performance and assessment, course participation, curriculum, teacher quality and working conditions, demographic and other variations in participation and performance, use of information technology, and student preparation for higher education.



Characteristics of higher education institutions. This includes laboratories and other research space; research instrumentation and facilities, including all types of research infrastructure; grants and other administrative mechanisms      for funding research; and record-keeping, accounting, and other administrative practices.



Higher education in science and engineering (S&E). This includes characteristics of students, postdoctorates, and faculty; educational innovations; degree production at undergraduate and graduate levels; demographic and disciplinary variation; interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research and education; and the role of foreign nationals.



S&E workforce. This includes demographic, educational, skill, and other characteristics of S&E workers; labor market dynamics; recruitment, mobility, migration, and retirement of S&E workers; and the role of foreign nationals. It also includes knowledge concerning doctoral scientists and engineers in academia.



Research and development (R&D) funds and alliances. This includes sources of R&D support, including federal, nonprofit, and for profit organizations; variations in industrial R&D by industrial sector, firm size, geographic location, and other variables; partnerships and collaborations within and across institutional sectors and national boundaries; and international R&D investment flows. It also includes knowledge of the role of academic R&D within the total R&D enterprise, the sources of support for academic R&D, and the characteristics of the academic institutions and fields of science in which academic R&D takes place.



Scientific productivity. This includes knowledge of S&E articles, patents, and other research outputs. Regarding articles, relevant topics include research collaboration, citations of related patents and articles, and effects of advances in information technology on publication practices and scientific productivity generally. Regarding patents, relevant topics include national and international patenting, citations of related patents and articles, academic patenting and licensing, variation by technical fields, and legal and strategic factors affecting patenting activity and intellectual property.



Innovation and technological competitiveness. This includes competitiveness of U.S. high technology industries, trade balances in high technology, variations in technological competitiveness by industrial sector, and foreign direct investments.



Variations among U.S. states. This includes knowledge about differences among states in the S&T areas listed above.



Public understanding of and support for S&T. This includes public knowledge of S&T, public interest in S&T, public support for various S&T-related activities and innovations, sources of public information about S&T, and public acceptance of pseudoscientific belief systems.



C.2.b Content and Style Standards



NCSES products undergo extensive internal and external review for accuracy, technical quality, stylistic consistency, objectivity, and relevance. In performing tasks under the contract, the Contractor must be prepared to make changes to draft work products in response to comments from NCSES staff, outside experts, and officials in policy-making positions. Task orders will specify procedures for review and revision of work prepared by the Contractor.



Draft NCSES products are reviewed using the following criteria:



Objectivity. Balanced, factual presentation of issues that is free of policy bias.



Policy relevance. Utility to various audiences, including especially policy makers. Writing style appropriate to the technical sophistication of the intended audience(s).



Accuracy. Support in the data for any factual statement, clear indication of data uncertainties, appropriate use of statistical techniques and adherence to NCSES statistical standards, and appropriate technical documentation.



Empirical quality. Appropriate use of data and evidence from all available sources.



Technical consistency. Consistent information across different sources and products, with clear explanations of apparent differences in information.



Editorial consistency. Adherence to NCSES style guidelines for textual and graphical presentation, stylistic consistency within a given report, readily comprehensible presentation of information.



(Ref. Appendices C and D.)



Both in drafting work and in reviewing work drafted by others, the Contractor shall adhere to the above standards. 



C.2.c Quick Turnaround Tasks



NCSES sometimes receives information requests on a quick turnaround basis, especially from policy-level officials such as the National Science Board, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the NSF Director. These requests often involve analytic support as described in Section C.3.c(a) below. These tasks involve fixed deadlines by which a large amount of analytic work (relative to available time) must be produced (e.g., three data tables in an afternoon; six properly formatted figures suitable for a PowerPoint presentation that will be made in one week by a high level executive who has a general idea of the points he or she wants to make, but may change his or her idea about the best way to make them.)  The Contractor requires the flexibility to staff and execute such tasks such that it can reliably deliver high quality work on a timely basis. 



C.3 STATEMENT OF WORK



Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall be required to furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the Statement of Work below.



Task orders may require the contractor to perform one or more of the following kinds of services:



C.3.a Analysis, research, and writing for ongoing reports. The Contractor shall provide assistance for developing chapters or shorter portions of ongoing NCSES reports on S&T issues, such as Science and Engineering Indicators. Such assistance may include:



preparing a detailed outline of a report or section thereof. Such an outline shall ordinarily be based on previous versions of a report, but incorporate modifications specified by NCSES and/or suggested by the Contractor. Such an outline will ordinarily be developed in close consultation with the NCSES task leader.



gathering information for possible inclusion in a report, including research articles, scholarly publications, survey results, statistical data, government reports, and other materials.



preparing the text of a report or section thereof based on a detailed outline approved by NCSES.



assembling current data necessary for updating a report, performing tabular and/or statistical analyses on these and other data that are required for updating, and/or preparing tables and figures that present these data effectively and conform to NCSES guidelines.



preparing material on a discrete issue (e.g., enrollment in graduate education) for inclusion in a chapter or report largely prepared by others. Such material may be prepared either to be integrated into the body of a report or to be presented as a separate "sidebar," set apart from the remainder of the text. Such material may summarize research articles, other scholarly literature, survey results, statistical data, policy debates, or other materials involving S&T issues.



preparing "Highlights" or an "Executive Summary" summarizing major points of a  report.



C.3.b Analysis, research, and writing for reports on special topics. The Contractor shall provide assistance for developing special reports (or portions thereof) on S&T issues. Such assistance may include:



preparing a detailed outline of a report or section thereof. Such an outline will ordinarily be developed in consultation with the NCSES task leader. It shall translate general descriptions of topics to be covered into a work plan that (1) specifies the major topical headings to be used in organizing the report, (2) identifies relevant quantitative and/or qualitative data (from NCSES or other sources) to be synthesized and bodies of literature to be summarized, and (3) details timetables for production of drafts and other interim work products.



gathering information for possible inclusion in a report, including research articles, scholarly publications, survey results, statistical data, government reports, and other materials.



preparing the text of a report or section thereof based on a detailed work plan approved by NCSES.



preparing tables and figures for a report that present quantitative data effectively and conform to NCSES guidelines.



preparing material on a discrete issue (e.g., enrollment in graduate education) for inclusion in a chapter or report largely prepared by others. Such material may be prepared either to be integrated into the body of a report or to be presented as a separate "sidebar," set apart from the remainder of the text. Such material may summarize research articles, other scholarly literature, survey results, statistical data, policy debates, or other materials involving S&T issues.



preparing "Highlights" or an "Executive Summary" summarizing major points of a NCSES report written by the Contractor or by others.



C.3.c Analytic support. The Contractor shall provide analytic support. The following types of activities are anticipated:



generating statistical tables, figures, charts, and other graphical representations from existing data sets, as specified by NCSES. Data may come from databases derived from non-NCSES sources or from NCSES surveys such as:



Survey of Doctorate Recipients;

Survey of Earned Doctorates;

Survey of Graduate Students and Postdoctorates in Science and Engineering;

National Survey of College Graduates;

National Survey of Recent College Graduates;

Higher Education Research and Development Survey;

Survey of Federal Funds for Research and Development;

Business R&D and Innovation Survey. 



obtaining statistical data from government and private sources and from published
reports, as requested by NCSES. The Contractor shall prepare such data in a format to be specified by NCSES in the statements of work for individual task orders and usable by NCSES and other analysts for data analysis (generally MS Excel or SAS databases). The contractor shall also prepare the necessary data documentation.



combining data from different sources into a single database usable by NCSES and other analysts and preparing documentation for this database.



cleaning and checking data. This may include performing computerized edit checks on tabulations to check for internal consistency (e.g., across totals and subtotals, between current and previous year data) and/or consistency across data sets.



conducting literature searches. This may include listing relevant documents to be reviewed, preparing annotated bibliographies, reviewing selected documents, and preparing briefings or reports synthesizing the findings from literature searches.



performing exploratory survey-related activities. This may involve conducting interviews, administering focus groups, or doing case studies to inform future data collection decisions or contribute to revision of an existing survey. It may also involve conducting survey improvement/methodological research projects and quick response surveys under NCSES’ OMB clearance for these purposes. In addition, it may involve drafting Federal Register notices and other documents required to meet regulatory requirements connected with these exploratory activities.



preparing short background or analytic papers not intended for publication. Such papers may be aimed at sketching the dimensions of an S&T issue, identifying potential data sources, or comparing how different surveys operationalize a concept. Topics can range widely (e.g., a comparison of the R&D definitions used in NCSES surveys with those used to qualify for the research and experimentation tax credits; a review of taxonomies used to classify fields of research; a summary of available data on environmental R&D).



arranging external reviews. Although NCSES ordinarily obtains external reviews gratis through normal professional channels, it may on occasion task the Contractor to identify an appropriate external reviewer(s) for a report and make arrangements for obtaining a review on a quick turnaround basis.



reviewing draft NCSES products. This may involve reviewing one or more aspects of content and style, as described above under Subsection C.2.b.



C.3.d Statistical and other quantitative analysis. The Contractor shall perform statistical or other quantitative analyses, either for survey sampling and development or for research using databases from NCSES and other appropriate sources. The Contractor shall report on the results of these analyses, providing complete documentation of statistical and all other technical procedures used. Analyses may include:



exploratory analyses using state-of-the-art methods for analyzing and modeling survey data.



trend, multivariate, or longitudinal analyses on selected topics, using multivariate regression, logit analysis, or other advanced statistical techniques.



analyses requiring the synthesis of data from multiple sources to inform a single issue area.



methodological analyses for developing and evaluating new approaches to data analysis or data collection and preparation.



development of survey and sample designs (e.g., generating a statistical sample from a design and providing complete documentation).



methodological analyses to address the statistical significance of trends or relationships.



Analytical tasks are likely to require the assistance of researchers or specialists with legal, statistical, mathematical, economic, social or behavioral, econometric, or other appropriate technical or computer expertise.



C.3.e Organizing and Conducting Workshops. The Contractor shall organize workshops or similar meetings on special topics for the purpose of information gathering.  In consultation with the NCSES task leader, the Contractor may assist in identifying experts who should be invited to workshops, inviting the experts, commissioning background papers, coordinating the exchange of information among participants before and after the workshop, and preparing a formal report of the proceedings. The Contractor shall arrange and pay for travel and per diem for all workshop participants (within government regulations) and shall make all necessary catering arrangements.



C.4 TASK MANAGEMENT



The Contractor shall manage tasks to ensure that high quality work is performed in a timely and efficient fashion. The contractor shall, as necessary, identify, recruit, and manage consultants and subcontractors with appropriate skills and topical expertise to ensure that performance is high quality, timely, and efficient. The contractor shall perform selected tasks on a quick turnaround basis, as defined in C.2.c above.



C.5 TRAVEL



The government anticipates that some travel may be required under the contract for meetings with the NSF COTR and other NSF staff. The Government expects that such travel will not exceed three (3) trips to NSF headquarters, currently located in Arlington, Virginia. Travel associated with specific tasks will be specified in individual Task Orders. 







[END OF SECTION]







 

SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING

  

D.1 MARKING

 

The contract number shall be placed on or adjacent to all exterior mailing or shipping labels of deliverable items called for by the contract.

 

Interior packages, if any, and exterior shipping containers shall be marked as specified elsewhere in the contract

 

Deliveries to civilian activities; Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Federal Standard 123, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation.

 

Deliveries to military activities; Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Military Standard 129, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation.

 

Additional packaging and packing may be specified in any delivery orders under this contract if applicable.

 

Mark deliverables except for reports, for:

	

D.2 PACKAGING AND PACKING

 

A. Domestic Shipment

 

Material shall be packaged and packed for shipment in such a manner that will insure acceptance by common carriers and safe delivery at destination. Containers and closures shall comply with the Interstate Commerce Commission regulations, Uniform Freight Classification Rules, National Motor Freight Classification, or regulations of other carriers as applicable to the mode of transportation.

 

B. Overseas Shipment



Supplies shall be packed for overseas shipment in accordance with the best commercial export practice suitable for water movement to arrive undamaged at ultimate destination.

 

Additional packaging and packing may be specified in any delivery orders under this contract.





[END OF SECTION]



 

SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

 

E.1 NOTICE LISTING CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 

The following contract clauses pertinent to this section are hereby incorporated by reference (by Citation Number, Title,   and Date) in accordance with the clause at FAR "52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE" in Section I of this contract.  See FAR 52.252-2 for an internet address (if specified) for electronic access to the full text of a clause. 

 

	NUMBER	TITLE	DATE

	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR Chapter 1)

	52.246-2	INSPECTION OF SUPPLIES--FIXED-PRICE	AUG 1996

	

	52.246-4	INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE	AUG 1996

	

	52.246-6	INSPECTION – TIME-AND-MATERIAL AND	MAY 2001	

		LABOR HOUR52.246-16	RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPPLIES	APR 1984 

 

E.2 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE AT DESTINATION

 

Inspection of the supplies or services to be furnished under this contract shall be made at destination by the receiving activity.





[END OF SECTION]



 

SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE 

 

F.1 NOTICE LISTING CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 

The following contract clauses pertinent to this section are hereby incorporated by reference (by Citation Number, Title, and Date) in accordance with the clause at FAR "52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE" in Section I of this contract.  See FAR 52.252-2 for an internet address (if specified) for electronic access to the full text of a clause.

 

 

	NUMBER	TITLE	DATE

	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR Chapter 1)

	52.242-15	STOP-WORK ORDER		AUG 1989

	

	52.242-17	GOVERNMENT DELAY OF WORK		APR 1984

	52.247-34	F.O.B. DESTINATION		NOV 1991

 

 

F.2 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

 

The period of performance of this contract shall be from date of award through 36 months.



F.3	TASK ORDER ORDERING PROCEDURES 



(a) The Government will order any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract by issuing Task Orders on Optional Form 347, or an agency prescribed form, from the effective date of the contract through the expiration date of the contract. 



(b)  A Standard Form 30 will be the method of amending Task Orders. 

 

(c) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of Task Orders by the Contracting Officer.   All Task Orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract.  In the event of conflict between a Task Order and this contract, the contract shall control. Such orders may be issued from the date specified in Section F.2.



(d) This contract provides for the issuance of task orders as follows: 

(1) The Contracting Officer will provide the contractor with a statement of work. The contractor shall provide pricing and other information requested by the Contracting Officer (e.g., proposed staffing, plan for completing the task, etc.) within the time period specified by the Contracting Officer. 

(2) The contractor shall acknowledge receipt of the statement of work and shall prepare and forward to the Contracting Officer within ten (10) calendar days the proposed staffing plan, pricing and/or other relevant information for accomplishing the assigned task within the period specified. 

(3)  After receipt of the contractor’s proposal, the Contracting Officer may conduct negotiations with the contractor.  The Contracting Officer will issue Task Orders within ten (10) calendar days. If mailed, a task order is considered “issued” when the Government deposits the order in the mail.

(e)  All task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract.  In the event of conflict between a task order and this contract, the contract shall control.



 (f) Each Task Order will have a ceiling price, which the contractor may not exceed.  When the contractor has reason to believe that the labor payment and support costs for the order, which will accrue in the next thirty (30) days, will bring total cost to over 85% of the ceiling price specified in the order, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing. 







[END OF SECTION]



 

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA 

 

G.1 INVOICE REQUIREMENTS

 

Invoices shall be submitted in an original and one (1) copy to the Government office designated in this contract or on the delivery order to receive invoices. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include the following information and/or attached documentation:



Name of the business concern and invoice date.



Contract Number, or other authorization for delivery of property or services.



Description, price, and quantity of property and services actually delivered or rendered.



Shipping and payment terms, and such other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract.



Name (where applicable, title, telephone number, and complete mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is to be sent.



G.2 INVOICE SUBMISSION

 

Invoices shall be submitted to the following address:

 

	National Science Foundation

	DFM, Phone: (703) 292-8280

	Commercial Cash Management

	4201 Wilson Boulevard, Suite II-605

	Arlington, VA  22230

  



G.3 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE

 

The Contracting Officer may designate in writing one or more Government employees, by name and position title, to take action for the Contracting Officer under this contract.  Each designee shall be identified as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). Such designation(s) shall specify the scope and limitations of the authority so delegated; provided, that the designee shall not change the terms or conditions of the contract, unless the COR is a warranted Contracting Officer and this authority is delegated in the designation. 

 

G.4 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE

 

The following person is hereby designated to act as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative under this contract:

 

	____Kelly Phou__________________

 

	_______________________________

 

	_______________________________

 

	_______________________________

 

	_______________________________

 

	Telephone__(703)92-4722_________

 

 

The COTR is responsible for: receiving all deliverables; inspecting and accepting the supplies or services provided hereunder in accordance with the terms and conditions of this contract; providing direction to the contractor which clarifies the contract effort, fills in details or otherwise serves to accomplish the contractual Scope of Work; evaluating performance; and certifying all invoices/vouchers for acceptance of the supplies or services furnished for payment prior to forwarding the original invoice to the payment office and a conformed copy to the Contracting Officer.

 

The COTR does not have the authority to alter the contractor's obligations under the contract, direct changes that fall within the purview of the General Provisions clause entitled "Changes" and/or modify any of the expressed terms, conditions, specification, or cost of the agreement.  If as a result of technical discussions it is desirable to alter/change contractual obligations or the Scope of the Work, the Contracting Officer shall issue such changes in writing and signed.



G.5 ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

 

Funds currently obligated in this contract are chargeable as follows: 

 

* To be identified in each Order	



G.6 PRICING OF ADJUSTMENTS

 

When costs are a factor in any determination of a contract price adjustment pursuant to the "Changes" clause, or any other clause of this contract, such costs shall be in accordance with the contract cost principles and procedures in Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Ch 1) in effect on the date of the contract.



 

SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS 

 

H.1 NSF 050 - NSF BUSINESS HOURS, HOLIDAYS, AND LEAVE



The normal business hours of the National Science Foundation (NSF) are 7:00 AM through 6:00 PM ET, Monday through Friday excluding federal holidays and periods approved for general administrative leave.

 

Federal holidays observed by the NSF are New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Inauguration Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day designated by federal statute, Executive Order, or Presidential Proclamation.  When any such day falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed; or if any such day falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed.

 

Except as specified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall perform any services required to be performed at NSF’s site(s) during business hours.  The NSF Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) may grant written approval to work outside of normal business hours. 

H.2 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

 

Any information made available to the Contractor by the Government shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.

 

In performance of this contract, the contractor assumes responsibility for protection of the confidentiality of Government records and shall ensure that all work performed by its subcontractors shall be under the supervision of the contractor or the contractor's responsible employees.

 

Each officer or employee of the contractor or any of its subcontractors to whom any Government record may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the contractor that information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such information, by any means, for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein, may subject the offender to criminal sanctions imposed by 19 U.S.C. 641.  That section provides, in pertinent part, that whoever knowingly converts to their use or the use of another, or without authority, sells, conveys, or disposes of any record of the United States or whoever receives the same with intent to convert it to their use of gain, knowing it to have been converted, shall be guilty of a crime punishable by a fine of up to $10,000, or imprisoned up to ten years, or both. 

 

H.3 NSF 170 – SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE (May 2008)



The Contractor shall provide a comprehensive list of all offered specific electronic and information technology (EIT) products (supplies and services) that fully comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, per the 1998 Amendments, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Boards Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR Part 1194. The Contractor shall clearly indicate where this list with full details of compliance can be found (e.g., vendors or other exact web page location). The contractor shall ensure that the list is easily accessible by typical users beginning five calendar days after award. The contractor shall maintain this detailed listing of compliant products for the full contract term, including all forms of extensions, and shall ensure that it is current within three calendar days of changes to his product line. 


The offeror shall ensure that all EIT products that are less than fully compliant are offered pursuant to extensive market research, which ensures that they are the most compliant products and services available to satisfy this solicitation’s requirements. 


For every EIT product accepted under this contract by the Government that does not comply with 36 CFR Part 1194, the contractor shall, at the discretion of the Government, make every effort to replace or upgrade it with a compliant equivalent product or service, if commercially available and cost neutral, on either the planned refresh cycle of the product or service, or on the contract renewal date, whichever shall occur first.  

 

H.4 CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES	



The contractor shall provide all management, administrative, clerical, and supervisory functions required for the effective and efficient performance of this contract.



The contractor shall adhere to the same professional and ethical standards of conduct required of Government personnel.  The contractor shall not:



Discuss with unauthorized persons any information obtained in the performance of work under this contract;



Conduct business not directly related to this contract on Government premises;



Use computer systems and/or other Government facilities for company or personal business other than work related; or



Recruit on Government premises or otherwise act to disrupt official Government business.



H.5 NSF 030 - SECURITY REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS TO NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION FACILITIES AND UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (Aug 2008)





Authorities



Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Public Law 107-347 

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Systems 

Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 201-1, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Special Publication 800-37, Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems 

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Special Publication 800-53 Rev 2, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems 

NIST Special Publication 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems  

NSF Personnel Manual (Manual 14)

NSF Policy Regarding the Privacy of Sensitive Information 

NSF Information Technology Privacy Policy

NSF Policy and Procedures for Responding to Computer Security Events



Security Requirements and Access to National Science Foundation Facilities and Unclassified Information Technology Resources



All Contractor personnel performing under this contract and requiring access to NSF information systems, networks, or data shall comply with all Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and NSF IT security policies, procedures and guidance and in the NSF Personnel Manual - Personnel Security/Suitability Program (Manual 14). 



The Contractor is responsible for its employees conduct and establishing in- and out-processing procedures that ensure accomplishment of the actions identified in this clause.



Contractor personnel assigned to work at NSF facilities may be issued a Federal identity card and/or NSF building access card that permits their entrance to NSF facilities without going through visitor access processes.  Contractor personnel may also be granted certain other privileges such as NSF e-mail accounts and/or access to NSF information systems.  This access shall be provided solely at the discretion of the NSF, and may be revoked or withdrawn at any time, without notice or cause, by the Contracting Officer. 



Contractor personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by a Contractor for the NSF or interconnected to a NSF network shall be investigated at an appropriate level.  Contractor personnel requiring routine physical access to NSF facilities for more than six months require a Federal identity card and NSF building access card and shall be investigated (i.e., a National Agency Check with Inquiries or higher level investigation).  The FBI National Criminal History Check shall be completed, and the investigation shall be scheduled by OPM, before the cards are issued.  NSF shall submit the National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) (or higher level) investigation to OPM using the standard personnel investigation forms listed in this clause.  Contractors are required to report to the NSF Human Resource Management (HRM) Security Office during business hours to be electronically fingerprinted, inputted into the online Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (eQIP) system and provide other required documents to begin the investigations process.  The Contractor shall submit the required forms to the NSF HRM Security Office within five (5) days after award or assignment of an individual to a position requiring investigation. 



Guidance for selecting the appropriate level of investigation is based on the risk of adverse impact to the NSF.  The level of risk for which investigation is required is as follows (IT-1 has the highest level of risk):



IT-1 – Individuals having privileged access or limited privileged access to systems whose misuse can cause significant adverse impact to NSF programs. These systems include, for example, those that interconnect with a NSF network in a way that exceeds access by the general public, such as bypassing firewalls; and systems operated by a Contractor for the NSF whose function or data has substantial cost to replace, even if these systems are not interconnected with a NSF network.

IT-2 -- Individuals having privileged access or limited privileged access to systems whose misuse can cause significant adverse impact to NSF programs. These systems include, for example, those that interconnect with a NSF network in a way that exceeds access by the general public, such as bypassing firewalls; and systems operated by a Contractor for the NSF whose function or data has substantial cost to replace, even if these systems are not interconnected with a NSF network.



Investigation for individuals shall employ forms appropriate for the level of risk as follows:



IT-1:  Electronic fingerprints, online Standard Form (SF) 85 Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, Federal Employment and resume.

Electronic and Standard Form (SF) 85P Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions, Official Form (OF) 306 Declaration for Federal Employment, Credit Report Notice Form and resume.



Investigation of Contractor personnel may be waived by the HRM Security Office for individuals in cases where proof of prior investigation at the NACI or higher level within the last two years can be obtained.



Until favorable results are received from the FBI National Criminal History Check and OPM has scheduled an investigation, NSF will not issue a Federal identity card and NSF building access card.  Contractors will use the temporary visitor badge.



The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, in performance of the contract, receive initial IT Security Awareness Training before being granted access to NSF systems and networks, and receive refresher IT Security Awareness Training annually.  The Contractor may use web-based training available from the NSF to meet this requirement.



The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, in performance of the contract, sign and submit the National Science Foundation (NSF) Information System Access Rules of Behavior before being granted access to NSF systems and networks.



The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology security for all systems used in performance of this contract, or those which are connected to a NSF network.  This clause is applicable to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services in which the Contractor shall have physical or electronic access to NSF’s information, including sensitive information and personally identifiable information, contained in unclassified systems that directly support the mission of the Agency.  This includes information technology, hardware, software, and the management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems.  



The provider of information technology shall certify applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC).  The FDCC common security configurations are available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Web site at http://checklists.nist.gov.

The standard installation, operation, maintenance, updates, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved FDCC configuration.  

Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges.



In the course of performing official duties, Contractors may have the need to access sensitive information or personally identifiable information (PII).  Sensitive information includes personally identifiable information and sensitive NSF information such as proposal review, reviewer identity tied to reviews, unfunded proposals, proprietary parts of funded proposal; and other similar information.  The majority of sensitive information maintained by NSF is in systems of records protected under the Privacy Act sensitive data.  Sensitive information may also exist in other types of records, such as databases, log files, e-mail, and correspondence files.  All Contractor personnel are responsible for recognizing sensitive information and avoiding inappropriate or accidental access, use, or disclosure in accordance with NSF IT policies.  



Personally identifiable information (PII) refers to information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as their name, social security number, biometric records, etc., alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.  All Contractor personnel are responsible for recognizing personally identifiable information and avoiding inappropriate or accidental access, use, or disclosure in accordance with NSF IT policies. 





The Contractor shall not use or redistribute any NSF information processed, stored, or transmitted by the Contractor except as specified in the Contract.  



For Information Systems NSF has identified as Major Applications or General Support Systems (GSS) that are not connected to a NSF network, but for which the Contractor has operational responsibility on behalf of NSF, the Contractor shall provide, implement and maintain an IT System Security Plan (SSP).  The IT SSP shall provide an overview of the security requirements of the system and describe the controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements to ensure appropriate security of the information system resources and data that are developed, processed, or used under this Contract.  The IT SSP shall comply with OMB Circular A-130, Appendix III and recommendations in the NIST Special Publication 800-18.



Within 30 days after Contract award, the Contractor shall submit the IT SSP to the NSF Contracting Officer for acceptance.



Within 60 days after Contract award, the Contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to the NSF Contracting Officer.  Accreditation shall be in accordance with NSF policies, procedures and guidance.  In accordance with NIST SP 800-37, this accreditation package shall include a final IT SSP, security assessment report and a plan of action and milestones and a disaster recovery/contingency plan.  



On an annual basis, the Contractor shall submit verification to the Contracting Officer that the IT SSP remains valid.



The Contractor shall afford the NSF, including the Office of Inspector General, access to the Contractor’s and subcontractors’ facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases and personnel used in performance of the contract.  Access shall be provided to the extent required to carry out a program of IT inspection, investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability and confidentiality of NSF data or to the function of computer systems operated on behalf of the NSF, and to preserve evidence of computer crime.



At any time during the term of this contract or task orders issued hereunder, Contractor personnel issued a Federal identity card and NSF building access card, or granted access to NSF e-mail or any other NSF information system, that do not require any further access, and/or at completion, expiration or termination of any such contract or task order where access has been granted, SHALL;



Complete and submit the online Contractor/Guest Exit Form, which will result in termination of all access to any NSF e-mail accounts and information systems.



Report to the second floor guard station (located outside Room 225), identify themselves to the personnel present, and surrender their Federal identity card and NSF building access card.



Notify the Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) and appropriate Property Custodian of any NSF equipment to be surrendered to NSF.



Contractor personnel will be considered not to require access to NSF facilities for work performance upon expiration of this contract or task orders issued hereunder.



The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts.



H.6 NSF 110 - SUBMISSION OF PROPER INVOICE 



In order to initiate payment, the Contractor shall submit proper invoices for reimbursement in the manner and format described herein.  The following data must be included in an invoice for it to constitute a proper invoice: 

 

Name of Contractor and invoice date; 



Contract number, or other authorization for delivery of property or services; 



Description, price, fee (if applicable), and quantity of property and services actually delivered or rendered; 



Shipping and payment terms; 



Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and complete mailing address of responsible official to whom payment is to be sent;



Other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract;



Period of performance.

 

Form:  The Contractor may use its own form, providing all the above information is on the invoice.  However, it is preferred that invoices be submitted on the Government Standard Form 1034, “Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than PersonalContinuation Sheet.”  These forms are available from the Government Printing Office, 710 N. Capitol Street, Washington, DC 20801. 

 

Address:  Submit all proper invoices as follows:  

 

One complete invoice (Original) without attachments to the National Science Foundation, Division of Financial Management, Commercial Cash Management Section, Room II-605, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22230.



One invoice copy with all attachments to the National Science Foundation, COTR, Room 965-S, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22230.



Final Invoice:  Upon completion of the required work, the Contractor shall submit a completion invoice in compliance with the clause entitled, “(insert applicable clause name)”.  This completion invoice must be clearly marked as such and be submitted promptly upon completion of the work, but no later than one year from the completion date of this contract.  The Contractor shall submit the original completion invoice to the Contracting Officer for approval and copies of the completion invoice to DFM and the COTR.

 

Payment Due Date:  Payment under this contract will be due on the 30th calendar day following acceptance of each properly submitted invoice.

 

If any contract deliverables are rejected for failure to conform to the technical requirements of the contract or are otherwise unacceptable, the provisions of the paragraph immediately preceding will apply to delivery of acceptable contract deliverables, unless otherwise determined by the Contracting Officer.

 

All payments for proper invoices will be made via Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT).



(END OF CLAUSE)

 




H.7 NSF 140 – NSF ACQUISITION OMBUDSMAN (May 2008)

	

An NSF Acquisition Ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential offerors, and others for this acquisition. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the authority of the contracting officer, selection official, or contracting officer’s technical representative. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman may refer the party to another official who can resolve the concern.

Before consulting with the NSF Acquisition Ombudsman, interested parties shall first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution. Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines for any other processes (e.g., agency level bid protests, GAO bid protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions). 



If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, concerned parties may contact the NSF Acquisition Ombudsman. The contact information for the NSF Acquisition Ombudsman may be found at . 



The NSF Acquisition Ombudsman has no authority to render a decision that binds the agency.



Do not contact the NSF Acquisition Ombudsman to request copies of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical requirements.  Such inquiries shall be directed to the Contracting Officer.



The Office of the National Ombudsman of the U.S. Small Business Administration has asked all Federal agencies to make clear that, if a small business entity requests Ombudsman assistance on a matter or otherwise questions or complains about a Federal agency action, the agency will not retaliate in response. The National Science Foundation is committed to maintaining an environment in which small businesses and others are free to question or complain about NSF actions or policies without fear of retaliation. One of the statutory responsibilities of the NSF, through its Office of Small Business Research and Development, is to "assure the expeditious processing of proposals by small business concerns based on scientific and technical merit" [42 U.S.C. 1883(3)]. Any allegations of retaliation will be investigated and appropriate action taken to correct the situation and ensure it is not repeated. In addition, small business entities may comment to the National Ombudsman's office. Information about the National Ombudsman is available by visiting . 









H.8 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT

	

If it is established at award or subsequently becomes a contractual requirement to collect identical information from ten (10) or more public respondents, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. applies. In that event, the Contractor shall not take any action to solicit information from any of the public respondents until notified in writing by the Contracting Officer that the required Office of Management and Budget (OMB) final clearance was received.  

 

H.9 NSF 120 -  KEY PERSONNEL (AUG 2010)

 

The personnel specified in this clause and/or other attachments are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder. Prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance and shall submit justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the program. No diversion shall be made by the Contractor without the written consent of the Contracting Officer; provided, that the Contracting Officer may ratify in writing such diversion and such ratification shall constitute the consent of the Contracting Officer required by this clause. The contract may be amended from time to time during the course of the contract to either add or delete personnel, as appropriate.

 

 

	INDIVIDUAL	POSITION/TITLE

		

		

	Determined at the task order level	

		

		



 

 

PART II – CONTRACT CLAUSES

 

SECTION I – CONTRACT CLAUSES 

  

I.1 NOTICE LISTING CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 

The following contract clauses pertinent to this section are hereby incorporated by reference (by Citation Number, Title, and Date) in accordance with the clause at FAR "52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE" in Section I of this contract.  See FAR 52.252-2 for an internet address (if specified) for electronic access to the full text of a clause. 

 

	NUMBER	TITLE	DATE

	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR Chapter 1)

	52.202-1	DEFINITIONS	JUL 2004

	52.203-3	GRATUITIES	APR 1984

	52.203-5	COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES	APR 1984

	52.203-6	RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO	SEP 2006

	 	THE GOVERNMENT

	52.203-7	ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES	OCT 2010

	52.203-8	CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY	JAN 1997

	 	OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER

	 	ACTIVITY

	52.203-10	PRICE OR FEE ADJUSTMENT FOR ILLEGAL OR	JAN 1997

	 	IMPROPER ACTIVITY

	52.203-12	LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE	SEP 2007

	 	CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS

	52.203-13	CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS	APR 2010

	52.203-14	DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTER(S) 	DEC 2007

		(b(3) )

	52.204-4	PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED	AUG 2000

	 	ON RECYCLED PAPER

	52.204-5	WOMAN-OWNED BUSINESS (OTHER THAN SMALL	MAY 1999

		BUSINESS)

	52.204-7	CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION	APR 2008

	52.204-10	REPORTING SUBCONTRACT AWARDS	SEP 2007

	52.209-5	CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT,	DEC 2001

		SUSPENSION, PROPOSED DEBARMENT, AND

		OTHER RESPONSIBILLITY MATTERS

	52.209-6	PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT'S INTEREST	SEP 2006

	 	WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS

	 	DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR

	 	DEBARMENT52.209-9	UPDATES OF PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION	JAN 2011

		REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS

	52.209-10	PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED	MAY 2011

		DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS

	52.215-2	AUDIT AND RECORDS--NEGOTIATION	OCT 2010

	52.215-8	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE--UNIFORM CONTRACT	OCT 1997

	 	FORMAT

	

	52.215-11	PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR	OCT 1997

		ORICING DATA – MODIFICATIONS

		52.215-13	SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA --	OCT 1997

		MODIFICATIONS

	52.215-14	INTEGRITY OF UNIT PRICES	OCT 2010

	

	52.215-20	REQUIREMENT FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR 	OCT 2010

		INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING

		DATA (ALTERNATE IV) (OCT 2010)

	52.215-21	REQUIREMENT FOR COST OR PRICING DATA OR 	OCT 2010

		INFORMATION OTHER THAN COST OR PRICING

		DATA - MODIFICATIONS

	52.216-7	ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT	JUN 2011

	52.216-29	TIME-AND-MATERIALS/LABOR HOUR PROPOSAL	FEB 2007

		REQUIREMENTS—NON-COMMERCIAL ITEM 

		ACQUISITION WITH ADEQUATE PRICE COMPETITION

	

		

	52.219-8	UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS	MAY 2004

	52.219-9	SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN	JAN 2011

	 	ALTERNATE II (OCT 2001)

	52.219-16	LIQUIDATED DAMAGES—SUBCONTRACTING PLAN	JAN 1999

	 	STATUS AND REPORTING

	52.219-28	POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM 	APR 2009

		REPRESENTATION

	52.222-3	CONVICT LABOR	JUN 2003

	52.222-21	PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES	FEB 1999

	52.222-26	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY	MAR 2007

	52.222-35	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR	SEP 2010

	 	VETERANS

	52.222-36	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH	OCT 2010

	 	DISABILITIES

	52.222-37	EMPLOYMENT REPORTS 	SEP 2010

	 	VETERANS

	52.222-50	COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS	AUG 2007

	52.223-6	DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE	MAY 

	52.224-1	PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION	APR 1984

	52.224-2	PRIVACY ACT	APR 1984	

	52.225-13	RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN	FEB 2006

	 	PURCHASES

	

	52.227-1	AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT	DEC 2007

	52.227-2	NOTICE AND ASSISTANCE REGARDING PATENT	DEC 2007

	 	AND COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT

	52.227-14	RIGHTS IN DATA--GENERAL	DEC 2007

	52.229-3	FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES	APR 2003

	52.232-1	PAYMENTS	APR 1984

	52.232-7	PAYMENT UNDER TIME-AND-MATERIALS	FEB 2007

		AND LABOR-HOUR CONTRACTS

	52.232-17	INTEREST	JUN 1996

	52.232-22	LIMITATION OF FUNDS	APR 1984

	52.232-23	ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS	JAN 1986

	52.232-25	PROMPT PAYMENT	OCT 2008		

	52.232-33	PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS--CENTRAL	OCT 2003

	 	CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION

	52.233-1	DISPUTES ALTERNATE I 	DEC 1991

	52.233-3	PROTEST AFTER AWARD	AUG 1996

	52.233-4	APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF	OCT 2004

	 	CONTRACT CLAIM

	52.242-1	NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS	APR 1984

	52.242-3	PENALTIES FOR UNALLOWABLE COSTS	MAY 2001

	52.242-13	BANKRUPTCY	JUL 1995

	52.243-1	CHANGES – FIXED PRICE	AUG 1987

		ALTERNATE II (APR 1984)	

	52.243-3	CHANGES—TIME –AND-MATERIALS OR LABOR	SEP 2000

		HOURS

	 52.244-2	SUBCONTRACTS	JUN 2007

	 		52.244-5	COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING	DEC 1996

	52.244-6	SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS	MAR 2007

	52.245-1	GOVERNMENT PROPERTY	JUN 2007

	52.246-25	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY – SERVICES	FEB 1997

	52.249-2	TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE 	MAY 2004

		GOVERNMENT (FIXED PRICE)

	52.249-6	TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT)	MAY 2004

	 	ALTERNATIVE IV (SEP 1996)

	52.249-8	DEFAULT (FIXED-PRICE SUPPLY AND SERVICE) 	APR 1984

		GOVERNMENT (FIXED PRICE)52.249-14	EXCUSABLE DELAYS 	JUN 2007

	52.253-1	COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS	JAN 1991 



   

 

I.2 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

 

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 60 days.

   



  





I.3 ORDER LIMITATIONS (FAR 52.216-19) (OCT 1995)



Minimum Order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $1,000, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract.



Maximum Order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor—



Any order for a single item in excess of $1 million;

Any order for a combination of items in excess of $1 million;

A series of orders from the same ordering office within 3 days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (1) or (2) above.



If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) above.



Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) above, the contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 3 days after issuance, with written notice stating the contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons.  Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.  



I.4 INDEFINITE QUANTITY (FAR 52.216-22) (OCT 1995) 



This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract.



Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the schedule as the “maximum.” The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the “minimum.”



Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. 



Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 6 month beyond the expiration date of the contract.   

  



I.5 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): 					

					https://www.acquisition.gov/Far/

 

 

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS

 

SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS	

J.1 DEFINITION OF LABOR CLASSIFICATIONS	

J.2 HYPOTHETICAL TASKS



J.1 DEFINITION OF LABOR CLASSIFICATIONS



Project Manager



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a master's degree in a science or engineering discipline or in business or public administration or related field. Requires a minimum of five years of managerial experience overseeing senior professionals performing complex research, report writing, or survey development tasks. Requires a minimum of two years of experience in managerial roles responsible for performing tasks under federal contracts. Requires a minimum of ten years in senior roles performing complex research, report writing, or survey development tasks that are substantially similar in subject matter to the S&T analysis tasks under this contract. One additional year of relevant experience can be substituted for each year of education shortfall; additional educational qualifications (e.g., relevant doctoral degree, relevant ABD educational qualifications, more than one relevant master's degree) may be substituted for up to three years of managerial experience and up to three years of experience performing senior research, report writing, or survey development tasks.



Functional Responsibility: Serves as senior corporate representative responsible for overall technical performance under the contract. Responsible for resource allocation and for technical and management oversight of quality and timeliness of task performance. Oversees activities of senior personnel who play leadership roles in performing tasks. Frequently provides subject matter expertise, review, and consultation for complex tasks under the contract. As needed, discusses technical and managerial issues relating to tasks under the contract with the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR), the NSF Contracting Officer, and the Contracting Officer for his or her own organization. Supervises contractor personnel; communicates policies, purposes, and goals of the organization; ensures that activities under the contract are guided by and consistent with task requirements. Simultaneously oversees all active tasks under the contract.       



Task Manager



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires either (1) a bachelor's degree in a science or engineering discipline or in business or public administration or related field, plus five years of experience managing significant portions of tasks involving social science research, report writing, or survey development; (2) a bachelor's degree in another field plus ten years of experience managing significant portions of such tasks; (3) a master's degree in a relevant discipline plus three years of relevant managerial experience; or (4) a Ph.D. degree in a relevant discipline plus one year of relevant managerial experience.



Functional Responsibility: Supervises performance of workshop, social science research, report writing, and survey development tasks. Sets and monitors schedules, ensures that work is performed in a timely manner and in accordance with task requirements, and coordinates activity of contractor personnel at all levels who are working on the task. Communicates with COTR and NSF task leader about progress of work under the task. Communicates with contractor's project manager about significant issues involving the task. Uses relevant social science knowledge to monitor the progress of the work and identify significant performance issues, and works with personnel at all levels to manage resolution of those issues. 



Distinguished Scientist (Social Scientist/Research Methodologist/Statistician)



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a research-oriented master's degree in a field relevant to science and technology studies (e.g., sociology, economics, political science, engineering, demography, and statistics). Ph.D. preferred. Fifteen or more years of professional research experience, of which at least 10 involve subject matter knowledge directly related to assigned tasks. National reputation in research, built on distinguished publication record, comparable to that of senior professors at high research activity universities (i.e., Carnegie Research 1 or Research 2 universities). 



Functional Responsibility: Brings to bear thorough knowledge of relevant subject matter and methodology on complex tasks that require creative, original approaches that go substantially beyond the tested and validated approaches that are available in the research literature. Analyzes complex problems; makes recommendations; develops alternative solutions; communicates clearly, precisely, succinctly, and in depth, both orally and in writing, regarding technical subject matter and social science issues; develops and executes effective plans for solving novel research problems. Responsible for preparing complex reports containing creative analyses and overseeing subordinate personnel involved in preparing those reports. As needed, oversees performance of subordinate personnel in executing elements of tasks for which s/he plays a leadership role. As needed, briefs high level executives and technical experts about technical considerations and conclusions relevant to tasks under the contract.



Senior Scientist (Social Scientist/Research Methodologist/Statistician)



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a research-oriented master's degree in a field relevant to science and technology studies (e.g., sociology, economics, political science, engineering, demography, and statistics). Ph.D. preferred. Ten or more years of professional research experience in leadership roles, of which at least 5 involve subject matter knowledge directly related to assigned tasks. Substantial experience working with minimal direct supervision to produce written reports concerning research methods or subject matter related to science and technology.



Functional Responsibility: Brings to bear thorough knowledge of relevant subject matter and methodology on complex tasks that require thoughtful and appropriate application of that knowledge in new contexts. Analyzes complex problems; makes recommendations; develops alternative solutions; communicates clearly, precisely, succinctly, and in depth, both orally and in writing, regarding complex problems, technical subject matter, and social science issues; develops and executes effective plans for solving novel research problems. As needed, oversees performance of subordinate personnel in executing elements of tasks for which s/he plays a leadership role. As needed, briefs high level executives and technical experts about technical considerations and conclusions relevant to tasks under the contract. Suggests nationally or internationally recognized experts who may be suitable as consultants or workshop participants and whose expertise may enable them to evaluate alternative approaches to problems or identify novel strategies for dealing with problems. May serve as expert rapporteur at workshops or meetings, as appropriate.



Scientist (Social Scientist/Research Methodologist/Statistician)



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a research-oriented master's or Ph.D. degree in a field relevant to science and technology studies (e.g., sociology, economics, political science, engineering, demography, and statistics). Three or more years of professional research experience involving relevant subject matter are required; a Ph.D. degree that involved relevant research experience may substitute. Experience working with limited direct supervision to produce written reports concerning research methods or subject matter related to science and technology.



Functional Responsibility: Brings to bear knowledge of relevant subject matter and methodology on tasks that require appropriate application of social science or economic knowledge. Analyzes problems; makes recommendations; develops alternative solutions; communicates clearly, precisely, succinctly, and in depth, both orally and in writing, regarding technical subject matter and social science issues; with limited supervision, executes plans for solving research problems. Works with more senior social scientists and economists to develop plans for solving complex research problems and to identify nationally or internationally recognized experts who may be suitable as consultants or workshop participants. With limited supervision, prepares relatively simple reports of social science, economic, methodological, or statistical analyses; overseen by more senior personnel, prepares sections of more complex reports. Plays a leadership role for simple research, methodology, and data presentation tasks involving application of advanced social science knowledge, including overseeing the work of research assistants.



Research Assistant II



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires either (1) a social science bachelor's degree with training in research methods and statistics and a minimum of 5 years of experience working on social science research projects; (2) a master's degree in a relevant field and a minimum of two years of experience working on social science research projects; or (3) a bachelor's degree in any field and a minimum of 10 years working on social science research projects.



Functional Responsibility: Prepares tables and figures that accurately report social science data; meticulously follows style guides for data preparation; prepares brief, accurate summaries of social science data and literature; at the direction of more senior personnel, uses social science data analysis and presentation skills to develop written and graphical materials suitable for presentation to a variety of audiences; performs Internet and library searches for social science and other data and literature; fact checks documents; at the direction of more senior personnel, uses basic social science data analysis programs (e.g., SAS, SPSS) to generate tabular and correlational data; assists in preparation of materials for presentation and distribution at project meetings and expert workshops; under the supervision of more senior social scientists, assists in literature searches and efforts to identify nationally or internationally recognized experts who may be suitable as consultants or workshop participants. Under supervision of more senior personnel who specialize in survey methodology, survey statistics, and mathematical statistics, assists in survey design, survey sampling, instrument development (including web survey development), and questionnaire design tasks, as well as assisting in problem-solving activity during the operational phases of surveys. Performs above assistantship tasks that involve relatively high levels of skill, and does so with less supervision than a Research Assistant I.



Research Assistant I



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a bachelor's degree, preferably in social science or science and technology studies and preferably including training in research methods and statistics. 



Functional Responsibility. Prepares tables and figures that accurately report social science data; meticulously follows style guides for data preparation; at the direction of more senior personnel, prepares brief, accurate summaries of social science data and literature; at the direction of more senior personnel, uses social science data analysis and presentation skills to develop written and graphical materials suitable for presentation to a variety of audiences; with oversight from more senior personnel, performs Internet and library information searches; fact checks documents; assists in preparation of materials for presentation and distribution at project meetings and expert workshops; under the supervision of more senior social scientists, assists in literature searches. When performing equivalent tasks, requires more supervision than a Research Assistant II.



Database Manager/Database Developer/Senior Programmer



Minimum General Experience and Education: Bachelor’s degree preferred (in any field), along with specialized training in relevant computing skills.  A minimum of five years of experience at increasingly higher levels of responsibility for developing and managing very large, complex databases that are used for social science analysis.   



Functional Responsibility: Manages the development, maintenance, and use of large databases.  Demonstrates high-level competencies in designing a database system and devising extracts of data for special users and uses. Provides special data output products on demand.  With minimal supervision, works from either detailed or general specifications and either oral or written instructions to produce data products tailored to user needs. Crafts creative solutions to complex database problems, enabling researchers to use databases to address analytical problems efficiently. Communicates with NSF client to develop a clear definition of database needs and possible solutions. Identifies emerging needs and adapts designs to changing requirements. Manages compliance with NSF and other Federal regulations concerning confidentiality of data. Has direct responsibility for data security requirements. 



Social Science Programmer



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a bachelor's degree, including upper division college course work in research methods and statistics and one year of experience using a range of applications in the contractor's social science data analysis package. Three years of experience using a wide range of applications in the contractor's social science data analysis package may substitute for the specialized course work requirement.



Functional Responsibility: At the direction of more senior personnel, uses thorough knowledge of the contractor's social science data analysis and presentation package to develop a wide variety of data analyses and graphical presentations of data. 



Senior Survey Director



Minimum General Experience and Education: Either Master's degree that includes training in survey research methods and statistics, plus at least 10 years of experience in managerial or leadership roles in administering surveys or Ph.D. degree that includes training in survey research methods and statistics plus 5 years of experience in managerial or leadership roles in administering surveys. Substantial experience with management of all stages of survey design, development, and administration, including sampling, questionnaire design, focus groups, cognitive interviewing, field pretesting, and data collection.



Functional Responsibility: Manages all phases of survey development and operations, either as task manager for relatively simple survey activities or, for tasks involving more complex survey design and operations, in collaboration with a senior methodologist or statistician. Supervises personnel involved in survey design, development, and data collection, including explaining project goals, procedures, and priorities and monitoring all aspects of performance. As needed, briefs technical experts about technical considerations and conclusions relevant to tasks under the contract and prepares written documentation summarizing all phases of survey activity and related task elements.



Data Collection Supervisor



Minimum General Experience and Education: High school diploma, two years of college course work, three years of experience as a survey interviewer, and one year of experience as a data collection supervisor. Successful experience supervising data collection may substitute for college course work. Proven ability to successfully perform the task after task-specific training.



Functional Responsibility: Supervises staff who conduct data collection activities. Assists in development of data collection protocols and ensures quality control and adherence to protocols.



Interviewer



Minimum General Experience and Education: Interviewing experience sufficient to establish a proven ability to successfully perform the task after task-specific training. High school diploma and completion of some college courses preferred for entry level interviewers.



Functional Responsibility: Performs personal interviews, either in-person or by telephone, with participants in research studies. Performs cognitive interviews or pretest interviews, identifies problems in administering survey instruments, accurately records data.



Event Planner



Minimum General Experience and Education: Some higher education experience, with a bachelor’s degree preferred.  At least five years of experience planning workshops, small conferences, etc., under the direction of scientists at all levels, task managers, other persons in leadership positions.  Shall demonstrate successful experience planning and directing all aspects of events.



Functional Responsibility: Directs and oversees all aspects of planning for and managing events like workshops and small conferences, which may be up to 3 days in length with up to 100 attendees.  Manages all tasks involved in developing and managing the event, including: establishing the event venue; developing potential invitee lists and organizing waves of invitations in coordination with the NSF client; manages all aspects of attendee affairs including honoraria, per diems, lodging and travel; develops multiple drafts of the event agenda working with the subject matter expert; arranges all catering; develops all event materials (handouts, nametags, name tents, etc.) and manages those throughout event; arranges note takers/court recorders, etc. if required; directs all contracts related to the event.



Event Management Specialist



Minimum General Experience and Education:  Some higher education experience, with a bachelor’s degree preferred.  At least one year of experience running one or more aspects of workshops, small conferences, etc., under the direction of event planners, task managers, or scientists at all levels, task managers, other persons in leadership positions.  Shall demonstrate successful experience handling details associated with workshop management.



Functional Responsibility: Assists event planner, task manager, or subject matter expert in managing aspects of workshops.

Facilitator/Focus Group Leader



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a bachelor's degree, preferably in social science or science and technology studies and preferably including training in research methods and statistics. Also requires at least 10 years of experience in designing and running focus groups and/or facilitating meetings. 



Functional Responsibility: Working with scientists at all levels, task managers, other persons in leadership positions, and/or the NSF COTR and task leader, organizes all aspects of the focus group session(s) or the meeting requiring a facilitator.  Develops protocols for the focus group sessions, and/or outlines for the topics to be facilitated.  Brings together knowledge of subject matter, social science analysis, and group interaction to elicit relevant information. Directs the sessions and prepares written reports on their results. 



Technical writer/editor



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a bachelor's degree, preferably in social science or science and technology studies and preferably including training in research methods and statistics. Also requires at least 10 years of experience writing or editing social science reports with extensive discussion of data and extensive graphical presentation.

   

Functional Responsibility: Working with scientists at all levels, task managers, other persons in leadership positions, and/or the NSF COTR and task leader, edits drafted text or writes text as directed.  Ensures that text prepared by the contractor is clearly written for an educated reader, is free of grammatical errors, and adheres to all of NCSES’ text and table preparation guidelines.



Senior Graphics Specialist



Minimum General Experience and Education: Completion of some college courses with a bachelor’s degree preferred, along with training in advanced computer graphics packages.  Ten years of experience in basic graphics packages is required, along with at least five years experience working with  advanced graphics capabilities. 



Functional Responsibility: Working with scientists at all levels, task managers, other persons in leadership positions, and/or the NSF COTR and task leader, prepares graphics as requested. Responds to requests for graphics or changes to graphics quickly, often within a few days. Develops graphic design solutions for data presentation problems. Skilled in presenting data highlighting geographic distributions and variations. Supervises more junior personnel performing routine graphic presentation tasks.



Graphics Specialist



Minimum General Experience and Education: Completion of some college courses with a bachelor’s degree preferred, along with training in advanced computer graphics packages.  Three years of experience in basic graphics packages is required, including at least one year of experience involving advanced graphics capabilities. 



Functional Responsibility: Under the supervision of senior graphics specialists, prepares and revises graphics using thorough knowledge of the contractor's graphics packages.



Clerical/Administrative Support



Minimum General Experience and Education: Requires a high school diploma and completion of some college courses. College degree preferred. 



Functional Responsibility: Under the direction of the task manager or other senior personnel, handles routine contracting and administrative matters (e.g., travel arrangements and vouchers); performs photocopying, collating, mailing, consistency and format checking, and similar tasks; revises materials developed by more senior social science personnel to ensure they conform to stylistic guidelines; performs simple accuracy and style checks.





J.2 HYPOTHETICAL TASKS



In order to evaluate offerors' capabilities to effectively deploy the range of skills required under the contract, NSF  requires offerors to submit as part of their technical proposals clearly identifiable responses to three (3) hypothetical tasks representative of task orders the offeror should expect to receive under the contract. Offerors shall submit responses to the following three hypothetical tasks in their technical proposals.

Hypothetical Task 1. Workshop on User Needs and National Priorities for Data on S&E Master’s Degree Holders



Background



The National Science Foundation’s National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) fulfills the legislative mandate of the National Science Foundation Act to “. . . provide a central clearinghouse for the collection, interpretation, and analysis of data on science and engineering resources, and to provide a source of information for policy formulation by other agencies of the Federal Government.” 



NCSES wishes to review data needs and priorities for information about holders of science and engineering (S&E) master’s degrees.  Several factors suggest that a review is warranted at this time and that additional information about master’s degree holders might be useful for leaders in various institutional sectors (e.g., higher education, business, government at different levels). 



Increased policy emphasis on innovation, high skill workers, and the “knowledge economy” suggests there may be a need to collect better data on members of the S&E workforce with advanced education below the doctoral level. There is reason to believe that these workers play leading roles in innovation outside academia, especially in the business sector. 

Concerns about possible shortages of citizens with advanced S&E training who are qualified and eligible to work in sensitive government positions that require a security clearance.

Limitations in currently available longitudinal data that affect analysis of career paths for this segment of the S&E workforce.

Absence of good data about the knowledge and skills that are acquired through advanced education and that are used at work.

Growing interest in the learning and economic outcomes of higher education investments, often tied to accreditation and accountability concerns for higher education.

Increasing international mobility in the S&E workforce, especially among those with advanced degrees.  With ongoing improvements in the infrastructure for international statistical cooperation, long-term cooperative efforts to track personnel flows or develop comparable information that can be used for benchmarking become more feasible.  

Statement of Work



The Contractor shall organize a two day workshop to consider U.S. national priorities and user needs for data on S&E master’s degree holders.  The workshop shall address this issue primarily in the context of enabling NCSES to develop a clearer view of what NCSES, as a U.S. federal statistical agency charged with providing policy-neutral information to the President, federal executive agencies, and the Congress, can contribute in this area. 



The workshop shall, at a minimum, consider the following issues:



The uses that stakeholders make of the national data on S&E master’s degree holders that NCSES currently collects, and the strengths and weaknesses of those data from a user perspective. 

The kinds of decisions for which users believe national statistical data would be useful, but for which currently available data are substantially inadequate. 

The kinds of data on S&E master’s degree holders that decision-makers currently use, the purposes for which they use them, and the sources of those data.

Priorities for collection of different kinds of data about S&E master’s degree holders (e.g., content and level of detail of occupational, educational, demographic, and career information). 

The possibilities for and obstacles to developing internationally comparable data about persons with advanced S&E education, including data about international migration.

The kinds of social science research on this population that would be useful for federal and other decision-makers, and how such research could be encouraged.

The workshop shall include up to 25 persons with relevant experience and expertise. Up to five of these may be from outside the United States. 

Subtask 1. The contractor shall prepare written background materials for distribution to workshop participants in advance of the workshop. Such materials may, but need not, include a review of relevant literature, commissioned analytic papers by experts on selected topics, or documents central to the programmatic or policy decisions in various institutional sectors affecting the education or employment of persons with advanced S&E degrees. 



Subtask 2. The contractor shall organize and administer the workshop.

 

The contractor shall nominate three persons from among whom NCSES will select the workshop organizer.  Nominees may be consultants, subcontractors, or other persons not currently employed by the contractor’s organization.  



The contractor shall propose a process whereby the organizer, in consultation with the NCSES Task Leader and other personnel (e.g., expert consultants, additional NCSES staff, contractor-supplied personnel) shall develop a proposed workshop agenda and list of invitees.  NCSES will make the final selection of participants and make final decisions as to the workshop agenda. 



The contractor shall make all necessary arrangements for meeting facilities and catering.

The contractor shall invite the participants and arrange and pay for their travel and per diem.  



Subtask 3. The contractor shall prepare a detailed summary of the workshop proceedings suitable for posting on the NCSES web site.  The contractor shall deliver a draft of the summary for NCSES review within 10 working days after the completion of the workshop.  The Task Leader will supply the contractor with a list of suggested changes and corrections.  The contractor shall make changes to the summary and shall submit a revised and corrected copy of the summary within 10 working days after receiving the Task Leader’s list.  The contractor shall distribute the summary to the workshop participants and afford them 10 working days to make comments and corrections.  Within five working days, and in consultation with the Task Leader, the contractor shall submit a final version of the summary to the NSF Task Leader.



The workshop participants shall not make any group recommendations. However, the contractor may propose to elicit individual written analyses and recommendations from participants on one or more topics considered during the workshop.   



NCSES requires that this task be completed no later than one year after the date that this task order is awarded. The contractor shall deliver the final workshop report and any other proposed written products as soon as they are completed.



Technical Proposal Instructions



Subtask 1. The technical proposal shall discuss the content and character of the background material to be distributed and explain the rationale for including these materials and the process by which they will be selected and developed.  For materials to be developed by contractor staff, the contractor shall propose a senior staff member who will take lead responsibility for preparing those materials and include a paragraph describing the most important attributes of the person(s) selected to play this role.  For materials to be developed by expert invitees to the workshop, the contractor shall identify the topic of the proposed materials, propose nationally or internationally known experts to develop them, explain how the contractor will manage development of these materials such that they are suitable for purposes of the workshop, and briefly explain the rationale for nominating these individuals. The proposal shall also name and describe an alternate expert to prepare these materials in case the preferred nominee is unavailable.



Subtask 2. The technical proposal shall discuss the key choices involved in planning the workshop and the main considerations involved in making these choices.  



The technical proposal shall include a paragraph describing the qualifications and experience of each person proposed as a possible workshop organizer, explaining why that person would be suitable for this role. 

 

The technical proposal shall sketch a possible agenda for the workshop that the organizer can use as a starting point for planning. The proposal shall briefly describe the advantages and disadvantages of this agenda as a framework for organizing the workshop.  



The technical proposal shall include a list of possible workshop participants.  The list shall indicate the participant’s areas of relevant expertise, current institutional affiliation, and, as necessary, significant prior institutional affiliations.  



The technical proposal should discuss other organizational choices, if any, that the contractor believes are important to the success of the workshop.



The offeror’s submission for this task should be approximately 7-10 pages long.



Business Proposal Instructions



For cost estimation purposes, offerors shall assume that the following:



The workshop(s) will run for two days at a location in the Washington D.C. metropolitan area.  

Attendees will include the workshop organizer, eight NSF staff members, and any subject matter specialists or senior analysts whom the contractor has employed to help plan and organize the workshop.  

In addition, 25 knowledgeable persons from outside NSF, seven of whom reside in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area and up to five of whom come from outside the United States, shall attend the workshop.   

The contractor will pay for travel and per diem for attendees other than NSF employees.

Attendees who prepare papers will receive a minimum of $1000 (depending on the length of the paper). Those who make formal presentations will receive honoraria of at least $250; attendees who do not prepare papers or make formal presentation will not receive honoraria. 



(b). Hypothetical Task 2. Research on Implications of the Change in Sampling Frame for the National Survey of College Graduates



Background



The National Survey of College Graduates (NSCG) () is a biennial longitudinal national survey that provides data on the number and characteristics of experienced individuals with education and/or employment in science and engineering and related fields.  



Until recently, the NSCG sample was selected once a decade. The sampling frame consisted of eligible individuals from households that responded to the decennial census long form.  In 2009, the American Community Survey (ACS) () became the sampling frame for the NSCG.  Unlike the decennial census, which occurs once a decade, the ACS collects household data continuously.  Thus, the new sampling frame is continuously being updated--  college graduates who have recently moved to the United States or completed their bachelor’s degree are immediately incorporated into the frame, rather than waiting for the next decennial census.  As a result, the NSCG will now be able to update its coverage of these two key population subgroups continuously. 



However, the ACS poses some new estimation and sampling challenges. In particular, because ACS interviews occur throughout the year, graduates who receive their degree in a given year may or may not be added to the NSCG sampling frame in that year, depending on whether they respond to the ACS before or after the degree is conferred.  Similarly, the ACS sampling frame in any given year will add fewer current year immigrants near the beginning of the year than near the end.  



Statement of Work



Subtask 1. The contractor shall develop and execute a plan for producing annual estimates of the number of college educated workers in S&E occupations and with S&E bachelor’s degrees from the ACS sampling frame. The plan shall include methods for producing estimates of key demographic characteristics of the S&E workforce (e.g., age, racial/ethnic composition, sex) as well as other characteristics of substantial interest (e.g., field of degree, occupation, citizenship).  



The contractor shall submit a draft plan for this subtask to the task leader for review. The contractor shall make revisions responsive to comments from the task leader within ten business days of receiving the task leader’s comments. When the task leader approves the plan, the contractor shall execute it.



Subtask 2.  NCSES expects that the NSCG and the ACS will produce significantly different estimates for some variables. The contractor shall develop and execute a plan for analyzing the source(s) of these differences and assessing the accuracy of these different estimates.



The contractor shall submit a draft plan for this subtask to the task leader for review. The contractor shall make revisions responsive to comments from the task leader within ten business days of receiving the task leader’s comments. When the task leader approves the plan, the contractor shall execute it.



Subtask 3.The contractor shall prepare a brief report (up to 10 pages of text) describing the work performed under this task. The report shall be suitable for use by NCSES survey managers, statisticians, and analysts, who will use the information it contains in preparing reports for the public.



The offeror’s submission for this task shall be no more than 10 pages long. 



(c). Hypothetical Task 3. Creating Tables and Figures from Publicly Available Microdata



Background



NCSES is planning a report on R&D and innovation-related activity among microbusinesses (i.e., very small independent U.S. businesses with fewer than five employees).  The Kauffman Firm Survey (KFS), an annual longitudinal study of nearly 5,000 businesses that were created in 2004, contains data on a sample of such firms.  KFS data can be downloaded from   as well as from the NORC data enclave in SAS or STATA format. KFS metadata are also available at the same sources.



Statement of Work



Using the KFS data, the contractor shall prepare tables on the following data elements:



Estimated Total Employment Created by Year

Number of Employees by Methods of Financing a Business

Number of Employees by Estimated Total Value of Revenue

Number of Employees by Primary Business

Number of Employees for Businesses with Growing Revenues 

Number of Employees by Assets and Legal Form of Business



The tables shall include relevant data for each year that KFS collected such data.  The contractor shall ensure that all tabular data accurately reflect the information in the KFS database.  The contractor shall document consequential data handling decisions (e.g., treatment of missing data or aggregation/disaggregation of survey response categories) such that a future contractor would be able to replicate the delivered tables using the original data sources cited above. 



For each table above, the contractor shall prepare an accompanying table with the standard error of the estimates. 



The contractor shall construct two figures from the data. One shall show the distribution of four-year growth patterns among microbusinesses.  The second shall show trends in the relationship between number of employees and total firm assets.



To minimize construction of tables and figures that do not accord with NCSES’ intentions, the contractor is encouraged to include in its proposal up to five questions to clarify ambiguities in the statement of work.



The contractor shall format tables and figures in accordance with the NCSES Science and Engineering Indicators Style Guide.  



The offeror’s submission for this task should be approximately 1-2 pages long.















 

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS



SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

  

	

	

  





K.1 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (NOV 2010)

 

 



(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541611 – Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services.



 (2) The small business size standard is _____$7.0M______ . 



(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b)(1) If the clause at , Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. 



(2) If the clause at  is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: 



[  ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. 



[  ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. 



(c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:

 

(i) , Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless— 



(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in ; 

(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or 

(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. 



(ii) , Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. 



(iii) , Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at , Central Contractor Registration. 



(iv) , Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that— 



(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; 

(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and 

(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 



(v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—Representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, or 2010. 

(vi) , Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 



(vii) , Place of Performance—Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. 



(viii) , Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. 



(ix) , Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 



(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. 

(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

 

(x) , Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 



(xi) , Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at , Equal Opportunity. 



(xii) , Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at , Equal Opportunity. 



(xiii) , Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. 



(xiv) , Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA–designated items; or include the clause at , Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. 



(xv) , Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA–designated items. 



(xvi) , Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 



(xvii) , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 



(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. 

(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. 

(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. 



(xviii) , Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at . 



(xix) , Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. 



(xx) , Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran—Representation and Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. 



(xxi) , Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to— 



(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and 

(B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. 



(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: 



[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__  (i) , Small Disadvantaged Business Status. 



__ (A) Basic. 



__ (B) Alternate I. 



__ (ii) , Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. 



__ (iii) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. 



__ (iv) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services–Certification. 



__ (v) , with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Products (Alternate I only). 



__ (vi) , Royalty Information. 



__ (A) Basic. 



__(B) Alternate I. 



_X_ (vii) , Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. 



(d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.





Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. 

(End of provision) 







K.2 52.209-7 INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JAN 2011)



 (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 



“Administrative proceeding” means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. 



“Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000” means— 



(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and 



(2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). 



“Principal” means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). 



(b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. 



(c) If the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: 



(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: 



(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. 



(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. 



(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in— 



(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or 



(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. 



(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. 



(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. 



(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at  (see ). 







 

	 

  

  









K.3 GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION

 

The offeror states that he/she is [ ]  is not [ ] a Government employee, and does [ ]  does not [ ] represent a business concern or other organization owned, or substantially owned, by one or more Government employees.

 

K.4 IDENTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACTORS

 

The following provision is for use in administering Equal Opportunity Programs.  Offerors shall list below known subcontractors whose subcontracts will exceed $10 Million:

 

_______________________________________________ _____________________________________________ _______________________________________________ _______________________________________________ _______________________________________________ _______________________________________________

 



K.5 SUBCONTRACTOR INFORMATION

 

If offeror proposes to subcontract any portion of this contract, the following subcontractor(s) information must be furnished.

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S FIRM NAME _______________________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S ADDRESS _________________________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S CONTACT _________________________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S CONTACT TELEPHONE NUMBER _____________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT ___________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S QUALIFICATIONS __________________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S TRAINING ________________________________________

 

 	SUBCONTRACTOR'S REFERENCES ______________________________________

 

 

 

	Amount of

	Name of Subcontractor	Address	Subcontract

 

	_____________________	_________________	___________

 

	_____________________	_________________	___________

 

	_____________________	_________________	___________

 

 

 

 

K.6 SIGNATURE BLOCK

 

I, the undersigned, do hereby attest that all representations and certifications made in this Section K are true.

 

Also, I, the undersigned, am aware of the penalties prescribed in 18 U.S. Code 1001 for making false statements in offers; and I am legally authorized to bind the company or organization represented.

 

 

 

 

 

 

	__________________________________________	_____________

	(Signature)	(Date)

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Typed or Printed Name)

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Title)

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Solicitation Number)

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Name of Company/Organization Represented)

 

 

 

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Address, including Zip Code)

 

 

 

	__________________________________________

	(Telephone Number, including Area Code)



 

 

SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

 

L.1 NOTICE LISTING SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 

The following solicitation provisions pertinent to this section are hereby incorporated by reference (by Citation Number, Title, and Date) in accordance with the FAR provision at FAR "52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE" in Section L of this solicitation. See FAR 52.252-1 for an internet address (if specified) for electronic access to the full text of a provision.

 

	NUMBER	TITLE	DATE

	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR Chapter 1)

	52.204-6	DATA UNIVERSAL NUMBERING SYSTEM	APR 2008

	 	(DUNS) NUMBER

	52.215-1	INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMPETITIVE	JAN 2004

	 	ACQUISITION

	52.215-16	FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY	JUN 2003

	52.222-24	PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY	FEB 1999

	 	COMPLIANCE EVALUATION

	52.237-10	IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED	OCT 1997

	 	OVERTIME



L.2 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

 

The Government contemplates award of a hybrid IDIQ contract that allows for Time and Material or Fixed Price Task Orders resulting from this solicitation.

 

L.3 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

 

Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:

 

 

      Hand-Carried Address:

 

	National Science Foundation

      Division of Acquisition and Cooperative Support (DACS)

      Attention:  Scott Donley

      Room 475.03

      4201 Wilson Boulevard

      Arlington, VA  22230



 

      Mailing Address:

 

 	Same as Above

 

The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

 

L.4 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

 

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): https://www.acquisition.gov/Far/

 

L.5 PROPOSED CONTRACT START DATE



For proposal preparation purposes, offerors may assume a contract start date of March 30, 2012. 

 

L.6 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS

 

This section provides instructions that the offeror shall follow in preparing a response to this RFP. The offeror is advised to carefully read the entire RFP. All updates to the RFP will be posted via FedBizops.



Offerors are encouraged to use recycled paper (see FAR clause 52.204-4).



Failure to submit any of the information requested by this solicitation may be cause for unfavorable consideration.



The Government will evaluate the technical proposal in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section M of the RFP.

NSF recognizes that information requested, in particular parts of the technical solution and pricing data, may be confidential.  Proprietary information shall be protected from improper disclosure under Federal law.  The offeror shall appropriately mark submitted materials as proprietary, where such restrictions should apply. 

Proposals submitted in response to this RFP shall be received no later than the time and date specified on Standard Form 33 (SF33) (Section A of the Request for Proposals) and at the location specified on said Form 33 to:

National Science Foundation

Division of Acquisition and Cooperative Support (DACS)

Attention:  Scott Donley

4201 Wilson Boulevard

Suite 475.07

Arlington, VA  22230



Companies are encouraged to hand deliver their proposals due to delays with incoming mail to US Government facilities (both US Postal and courier service). Prospective offerors should be aware that the NSF building is a secure building.  All visitors shall enter at the Visitor’s Center.  The Visitor’s Center will telephone the visitor’s NSF contact to announce their arrival and request a NSF employee come to the visitor’s lobby to receive the package. These procedures WILL require extra time.  Offerors shall, therefore, ensure that any commercial delivery service or company employee have appropriate identification, and allow extra time for any hand carried deliveries.  Delays encountered at the Visitor’s Center or refusal of admission DOES NOT constitute excusable delays.  Proposals shall be received by the Contract Specialist, no later than the exact time specified to be considered for award.  Proposals shall be clearly marked RFP #DACS11P2131 on the outermost mailing envelope. 



Award Without Discussions.  The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award the contract based on the initial offer in accordance with FAR 52.215-1(f)(4).  It is particularly important that each Offeror be fully responsive in providing its best offer initially since there may be no opportunity to revise proposals at a later date.  However, the Government reserves the right to hold discussion if determined necessary.



Offerors should resolve questions or issues about specifications, as well as terms and conditions of the solicitation before the due date for proposals.  An Offeror that takes exception to any term or condition of the solicitation in its proposal may be eliminated from consideration if award is made without discussions.  



Failure of Offerors to respond to or follow the instructions regarding the organization and content of the proposal volumes may result in the entire offer being eliminated before initial evaluation.  



Inquiries.  Any questions, inquiries or correspondence pertaining to the Request for Proposal (RFP) shall be received not later than ____________(date to be filled in) _________(time to be filled-in).  Questions may be submitted by email to: .  Any questions received after ___________, will be answered only if determined by the Contracting Officer to be in the best interest of the Government.  NO ORAL INQUIRIES WILL BE ANSWERED. 



No question of any nature or in any form shall be directed to technical personnel.  Any additions, deletions, or changes to this solicitation shall be made by amendment to the RFP.  Each amendment will be identified by number and receipt thereof shall be acknowledged by each Offeror.  Consistent with the issuance of the RFP, any amendment will be posted on  and no paper copies will be mailed to prospective Offerors.



PREPARATION COSTS. This RFP does not commit the Government to pay for the preparation and submission of a proposal.



Alternate Proposals will not be accepted.  The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government’s interest.

 

L.7 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION.

The offeror’s proposal shall be clear, concise, and include sufficient detail on their approach to the Statement of Work contained in section C of the RFP for the Government to understand and evaluate the nature of the approach. The proposal shall not simply rephrase or restate the Government’s requirement, but rather shall provide convincing rationales to address how the offeror intends to meet these requirements.  Brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete effective response to the solicitation are not desired.  Offerors shall assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of their facilities and experience and will base the evaluation on the information presented in the offeror’s proposal.  In its evaluation, the Government will consider the degree of substantiation of the proposed approaches in the proposal volumes and in response to any discussions.

The proposal shall be accompanied by a cover letter (letter of transmittal) prepared on the company’s letterhead stationery.  In the cover letter, provide the name, title, email address, and telephone number of the organization point-of-contact who has responsibility to bind your company and who is designated as the point-of-contact to negotiate contractual arrangements.  The cover letter shall also clearly state that the offeror’s proposal is valid for 150 days from the due date of the proposal.  In addition, the cover letter shall identify all enclosures being transmitted and shall be used only to transmit the proposal and shall include no other information.  

Proposals submitted via the U.S. Postal Service shall be sent to the address specified in Block 8 of the SF 33.  

In the event any portion of the proposal is not written by a bona fide employee of the firm submitting the proposal, a certification to this effect shall be attached to the RFP package and signed by a responsible officer of the offeror showing the person’s name, employment capacity, the name of his/her firm, the relationship of the firm to the offeror, and the portion of the proposal so written by the individual.

The proposal shall be prepared on standard-size 8 ½” x 11” double spaced text only with foldouts as required.  Each offeror shall utilize Times New Roman 12-point type.  Type size shall not be smaller than 12 characters per inch.  Reduction may be used only for tables and figures, but legibility shall be maintained.  If foldout pages are used, they shall not exceed 11” x 17”.  Each foldout shall count as two (2) pages toward the page count.  Margins shall not be less than one-inch at top, bottom, and sides, excluding page number.

Offerors shall submit hard copies as follows:

	Volume I – Technical Proposal 			Original and six (6) copies

	Volume II – Cost/Price/Business Proposal	Original and three (3) copies

	Volume III – Past Performance			Original and three (3) copies

(g) Cover and Title Page.  The Cover and title page of each proposal shall indicate the following information:

The document number and title (Volume I – Technical Proposal; Volume II – Cost/Price/Business Proposal; Volume III – Past Performance;

The solicitation number of the RFP;

The full company name of the offeror;

The address of the offeror.

Master Index.  The Master Index shall provide a single integrated index of the entire proposal.  The Master Index shall be placed at the beginning of each volume.  This Master Index shall identify each major subsection by number, title, volume, and page number.  This index shall also cross reference the appropriate proposal volume and paragraphs to specific RFP paragraphs.  The intent of the Master Index is to assure that all requirements are addressed and easily accessible to the evaluators.  Copies of the Master Index shall be identical for all volumes.   

Binders.  The proposal volumes shall be prepared in separate three-ring binders to permit removal of individual sections.  Do not use staples.  A cover sheet shall be bound in each book, clearly marked as to volume number, title, copy number, solicitation identification and the offeror’s name.  The same identifying data shall be placed on the spine of each binder. 

The offeror shall submit one (1) original (which shall be clearly marked as “ORIGINAL.”) and six (6) complete copies (including all documentation) of their binder-bound Technical Proposal.  The offeror shall also submit one (1) original (which shall be clearly marked as “ORIGINAL”) and three (3) complete copies (including all documentation) of their binder-bound Cost/Price/Business Proposal and Past Performance.  Each volume (i.e., Technical, Cost/Price/Business, and Past Performance) shall contain a title page that shall be separately identified). The Offeror shall also submit two (2) complete electronic copies of the proposal on CD.  Each volume of the proposal shall be submitted on separate CDs. The electronic copy shall be formatted in Microsoft Office 2003 or higher.  All CDs (please ensure they are virus free) shall include a label identifying the offeror’s name, address, format version and file name. 

The original hard copy of the proposal shall contain the signed original of all documents requiring signature by the offeror.  Use of reproductions of signed originals is authorized for the six copies of the Technical Proposal and three copies each of the Cost/Price/Business Proposal and Past Performance.  



Facsimile proposals are not authorized for this solicitation.



L.8 SPECIFIC TECHNICAL PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

Submit your technical proposal as a separate part of the total proposal package.  Omit all cost or pricing information from the technical proposal.  

Technical proposals submitted in response to this solicitation shall be prepared and organized in the format described below:





Volume I – Specific Technical Proposal

 

NOTE:  The management and work plan section of the technical proposal shall not exceed sixty (60) pages including appendices and responses to the hypothetical task orders, but not including resumes or work samples. 



Pages beyond the limitation specified above will not be evaluated.  The Government will evaluate up through the permitted number of pages only. 

Cover Letter. (see L.7.b).

Letters of Commitment.  The offeror shall submit Letters of Commitment for all proposed key personnel. Letters of commitment shall be submitted for contingency hires, defined as persons not currently employed but who have executed a letter of commitment for employment with the Offeror, if the Offeror receives award under the subject solicitation.  

Master Index. (see L.7.h)

Summary/Introduction. This section shall contain a brief synopsis, not to exceed three pages, of the proposal's salient features. This section shall reflect an understanding of the ultimate purpose of this requirement and the rationale under which the work will be undertaken. The three page limit for the Summary/Introduction is not included in the 60 page limit stated above.  

Management and Work Plans.

Management Plan. This section shall demonstrate a clear understanding of the purposes of the proposed effort and describe how the project is to be organized and managed. The plan shall include detailed information about how the offeror's management system ensures that appropriate personnel will be available to perform work required by the task orders and that work under the contract is performed in a timely fashion and at a high level of quality. The plan shall specifically address the offeror's capability and experience in doing quick turnaround tasks. The plan shall identify any critical management issues and how the offeror proposes to address them. 

The plan shall specifically address how the offeror will manage the recruitment, supervision, and coordination of consultants and/or subcontractors. It shall provide names of individuals and organizations that the offeror might nominate to NSF as appropriate subcontractors and consultants for performing tasks under the contract and that the offeror reasonably believes might be available to serve in this capacity.  

The plan shall identify a project manager who shall be the contractor's point of contact with NSF and specify the percent of the project manager's time to be devoted to the project. The project manager shall be responsible for understanding the terms of the contract and the task orders issued under it. The project manager shall also be responsible for ensuring that the relevant technical staff assigned to perform work under task orders understand their assignments and have the relevant knowledge and skills to perform the work required. The plan shall include a paragraph-length description of the project manager’s technical and managerial qualifications for overseeing the work to be performed under the contract. The plan shall specify lines of supervision within the offeror's organization and proposed lines of communication with the COTR and task leaders at NSF. 

Work Plan. The work plan shall contain the following elements:

A description of offeror's experience, if any, in performing and managing tasks in each of the topic areas listed in Section C.2.a. The description shall list previous work that the offeror has performed within the past three years that is relevant to the topic area, providing a brief description of such work (about two sentences), and a reference to a publicly available electronic copy of a report of such work. 

A list of all topic areas in Section C.2.a in which the offeror plans ordinarily to rely on the expertise of consultants or subcontractors who are specifically recruited for the task and who are not expected to be repeatedly called upon to perform tasks under this contract. 

A plan for executing each of the three hypothetical task orders in Attachments 2-4, Section J.  The plan for each hypothetical task shall be presented in a summary format; an outline or bullet format is acceptable if it conveys the necessary information. Plans shall summarize the offeror's strategy and technical approach by specifying objectives, probable methodologies, data sources, applicable analytic approaches, anticipated difficulties, and proposed approaches for overcoming those difficulties. Plans shall also include a schedule of activities. Plans should divide a task into sub-tasks as appropriate, and need not adhere to the sub-task structure, if any, listed in the hypothetical task orders. Plans shall describe the categories of personnel and levels of effort (labor hours) required, and shall include resumes of illustrative personnel for the task, but shall not contain any discussion of costs.  (Cost information related to the hypothetical task orders is requested separately as part of the business proposal.) The three statements of work for hypothetical task orders shown in Attachments 2a, b, and c, Section J, are representative of the kinds of tasks the offeror should expect to receive during contract performance.  In responding, offerors shall assume that they have just received a copy of the statement of work from the NSF Contracting Officer and shall deliver within one week a task plan with a level of detail commensurate with the overall scope of the work for the task.  Evaluation of the offeror’s technical proposal will be based in part on the quality of its response to the hypothetical statements of work.



Work Samples. The offeror shall submit five samples of work that demonstrate the offeror's capacity to meet the content and style standards specified in Section C.2.b and that, taken together, demonstrate the offeror's capacity to deploy effectively a wide range of relevant skills listed in Section C.3. For each work sample, the technical proposal shall include the following information



Title of project;

Concise summary (no more than 100 words); 

Government agency/organization that awarded the contract;

Point of contact (name and telephone number) of the responsible contracting officer and technical contact who can provide reference information on each procurement;

Contract or award number;

Period of performance and total award amount;

Names of personnel in offeror's proposal who worked on the project; and

Web address at which a copy of the work sample may be found.

For work samples that are available on the web, submission of one paper original is sufficient. For work samples that are not available on the web, two paper originals shall be submitted.

At a minimum, work samples shall demonstrate skill synthesizing information of various kinds (e.g., tabular, statistical, and textual information from a range of Government and scholarly sources) into coherent reports as described in Sections C.3.a and C.3.b of the Statement of Work. It is also important for work samples to demonstrate skill in as many as possible of the listed topic areas in Section C.2.a.

At a minimum, work samples shall demonstrate skill synthesizing information of various kinds (e.g., tabular, statistical, and textual information from a range of Government and scholarly sources) into coherent reports as described in Sections C.3.a and C.3.b of the Statement of Work. It is also important for work samples to demonstrate skill in as many as possible of the following areas:

developing a range of tables, figures, charts, and other graphical representations of quantitative data as described in Section C.3.c(a);

managing databases as described in Section C.3.c(b-d);

performing qualitative research, including conducting interviews and administering focus groups, especially as these relate to survey research, as described in Section C.3.c(f);

performing a range of statistical and quantitative analyses as described in Section C.3.d; and

conducting and reporting on workshops, as described in Section C.3.e.

NOTE: Work samples submitted as part of the proposal will not be returned

Descriptions and Resumes of Key Personnel. The offeror shall include a paragraph-length description of the qualifications of proposed key personnel.  The project manager shall be designated as a key person. In addition to the project manager, the offeror shall propose as additional key personnel three to five other persons on whom the offeror expects to rely repeatedly for technical and managerial leadership in executing tasks under the contract.

For each proposed key person, the description shall specify all topic areas listed in Section C.2.a of the proposal in which the individual is an expert, such that the offeror plans to rely on this individual to perform leading roles on tasks in this topic area. In describing the experience and qualifications of those who are proposed as key or leadership personnel, the offeror shall demonstrate either that they possess high level capability in a topic area or a high level of statistical or methodological expertise. This may be demonstrated by advanced degrees, publications, or other achievements indicating substantial subject matter knowledge, statistical expertise, or methodological expertise, along with a proven track record of leadership in performing complex tasks, including tasks closely comparable to those described in Sections C.3.a, C.3.b, and C.3.d. 

The offeror shall submit resumes for all key personnel.  Each shall indicate educational background, recent experience, and specific or technical accomplishments.



Volume II – Cost/Price/ Proposal

 

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS



An original and three (3) copies of the cost/price proposal are required.  To expedite review of your                                                proposal, you are requested to submit a computer disk containing the financial information required below (Excel is preferred).  Offerors shall include the formulas and factors used in calculating the financial information.  



The cost/price proposal will represent the offeror’s understanding of the RFP’s requirements and the offeror’s ability to perform.  The evaluation will be based on price reasonableness,  and completeness of the cost/price proposal.  

   

Explain the basis of the proposed labor rates, including a complete justification for all judgmental factors used to develop weights applied to your company’s category or individual rates that comprise the rates of labor categories specified in the solicitation.  This explanation shall describe how your technical approach coincides with the proposed costs.



Submit cost and pricing information prepared in accordance with FAR 15.408 and the following:     



Clearly identify separate cost or pricing information associated with each contract year;



SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

	

The cost/price volume of the proposal will present the offeror’s labor categories and corresponding fixed labor rates. A hybrid IDIQ contract that allows for Time and Material or Fixed Price Task Orders will result from this solicitation.  Individual Task Orders will be issued as discussed in Section F.3 of this solicitation.  Proposals submitted on a basis other than hybrid IDIQ contract that allows for Time and Material or Fixed Price Task Orders will be ineligible for award.



The cost proposal shall be organized as follows:  Each section will be titled and tabbed for easy identification.





Enumerated below is a brief outline of the minimum requirements for each section and subsection of the cost proposal. 



	Cost/Pricing Proposal Instructions – Volume II



Section 2.1 LOADED LABOR RATES, shall include the offerors’ proposed loaded rates for the Prime Contractor, Subcontractors and Total Team. 



Provide a summary showing each team member’s contribution to the total hours proposed.



For each labor category in each year, offerors shall provide a build-up showing the various elements of costs which comprise the labor rate(s).  



All management and support (such as clerical, corporate and day-to-day management) hours and cost proposed to be direct charge in accordance with your normal accounting treatment, are to be shown separately from that for the technical effort.  



Indicate whether current rates or escalated rates are used.  If escalation is included, state the degree (percent) and methodology. The methodology shall include the effective date of the base rate and the policy on salary reviews.   



Indirect Costs (overhead, general and administrative expenses. If you rates have been recently approved, include a copy of the rate agreement.



Other Direct Costs (ODCs). Any item not covered elsewhere shall be identified as other direct cost.



Subcontractor/Consultant. For each labor category in each year offerors shall provide a build-up showing the various elements of costs (inclusive of all applicable prime contractor indirect cost and profit) which comprise its subcontractor/consultant labor rate.  



Personnel. If offerors elect to propose any of these labor categories as an indirect charge, then offerors shall fully and completely describe how the individual (s) duties and responsibilities will be billed to the resulting contract.



Section 2.2 Other Supporting Documentation



Shall be included in the offeror’s proposal as appropriate.





Section 2.3 Exceptions

This section shall consist of any exceptions the offeror has to the terms and conditions of this solicitation. An Offeror that takes exception to any term or condition of the solicitation in its proposal may be eliminated from consideration if award is made without discussions.  



Section 2.4 Other Business Factors



Financial Condition and Capability Specify financial resources available to perform the contract without assistance from any outside source.  If sufficient resources are not available, indicate in your proposal the amount required and the anticipated source (i.e., bank loans, letter or lines of credit, etc.)







	

		

		





Subcontracting



Subcontracting Approach



The Offeror shall provide an approach to subcontracting that addresses the degree of participation of, subcontracting opportunities for, and the extent the Offeror plans to identify and commit to subcontracting with small business, small disadvantaged business, and veteran-owned, service-disabled, HUBZone, and woman-owned small businesses. The offeror’s approach shall include proposed subcontracting goals and plans for successful accomplishment of the goals.



Subcontracting Plan 



If the Offeror is other than a small business, the Offeror shall submit a Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Subcontracting Plan, in accordance with FAR Subpart 19.7 and FAR 52.219-9.  Failure to submit such a plan will render the Offeror ineligible for award.  The goals, stated below, should be used as guidance for developing a subcontracting plan in response to this RFP.  The goals listed below represent the subcontract dollar percentage of total contact dollars for work performed within the U.S.  Provide details, percentages, performance incentives, and evidence of corporate commitment for each small business category addressed.  In addition, Offerors shall provide the anticipated dollar amount for each of the small business categories.  



Socioeconomic Status				Goal



		Small Business				 	 29.7%

		Small Disadvantaged Business		 	  5.0%

		Woman Owned Small Business Concern	  	  5.0%

		HUBZone Small Business			  3.0%

		Service Disabled Veteran-Owned 

		Small Business (SDVOSB)			  3.0%



NOTE: Contract awards placed by both the prime contractor and all first-tier subcontractors may count towards achieving the goals set forth above.  





Section M of this solicitation contains a source selection factor related to the participation of small disadvantaged business (SDB) concerns in the contract. In order to be evaluated under the source selection factor , an offeror shall provide, with its offer, the following information:

The extent of participation of SDB concerns in the performance of the contract in terms of the value of the total acquisition.  Specifically, offerors shall provide targets, expressed in dollars and percentages of the total contract value, for SDB participation in the applicable and authorized North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsectors as determined by the Department of Commerce.  Total dollar and percentage targets shall be provided for SDB participation by the prime contractor, including team members and joint venture partners.  In addition, total dollar and percentage targets for SDB participation by subcontractors shall be provided and listed separately;

The specific identification of SDB concerns to be involved in the performance of the contract;

The extent of commitment to use SDB concerns in the performance of the contract;

The complexity and variety of work the SDB concerns are to performed; and

The realism of the proposal to use SDB concerns in the performance of the contract.












C.  ADDITIONAL COST PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS



Offerors shall prepare price summaries for the anticipated base and each option year of the proposed contract.  In addition, offerors shall prepare an overall total price for the 60 months period of performance.  The overall cost shall include all subcontractor/consultant costs and all applicable prime contractor indirect loading.



The Government’s estimate of the number of hours that may be ordered during performance of the resulting contract is shown below. The Government does not anticipate the contract period of performance to exceed 36 months.  Offerors should anticipate a start date of March 30, 2012. Submit your proposal utilizing the labor categories shown in B.1, the distribution of Labor Hours shown in L.9 and the labor hours shown below:



				Period			No. of Hours



				Contract Year I		7,796

				Contract Year II	     	7,796

				Contract Year III	    	7,796



The hours indicated in above are provided for proposal preparation purposes and do not necessarily represent the actual distribution that may be experienced during contract performance, or the amount actually ordered.  These hours are considered the Government’s best estimate. Once the contract is in effect, the Government may order a different mix of labor from the contractor depending on the type of projects being performed under the contract.



Offerors shall fill-in their fixed rates as required by the clause shown in B.1.



The labor mix breakdown provided in clause B.1 includes prime contractor hours and subcontract/consultant hours. Labor will not be reimbursed as an Other Direct charge.  



Offerors shall propose whatever support costs it deems necessary to support the services required by the Statement of Work.



Include in your cost proposal the estimated costs and burden rate you will apply to materials, other direct costs and subcontracts. The Government will include these costs as part of its cost proposal evaluation. Provide the proposed base and pool for each indirect rate for each year, as well as the actual base and pool costs incurred for each rate for the last three (3) years. Indicate whether such rates have been approved by the Government.



Whenever subcontractor effort is included in the proposed costs, the prime contractor shall include an additional supporting cost summary consolidating all costs (both contractor and subcontractor) by element for each contract period.  





L.9 DEFINITION OF LABOR CLASSIFICATION



Offerors shall use the following labor classifications in preparing their technical and cost proposals.



Definition of Labor Classifications. The direct labor hours appearing below are for professional and technical labor only. These hours do not include management at a level higher than the project management and clerical support staff at a lever lower than technician. If it is your normal practice to charge these types of personnel as a direct cost, your proposal shall include them along with an estimate of the directly chargeable man-hours for these personnel. If this type of effort is normally included in your indirect cost allocations, no estimate is required. However, direct charging of indirect costs on any resulting contract will not be allowed.  Additionally, the hours below are the workable hours required by the Government and do not include release time (i.e., holiday, vacation, etc.).  



Distribution of level of effort. Submit your proposal utilizing the labor categories and distribution of the level of effort specified below:



Contract Year One 		(March 30, 2012 through March 29, 2013)







Contract Year Two 		(March 30, 2013 through March 29, 2014)







Contract Year Three		(March 30, 2014 through March 29, 2015)







Definition of Labor Classifications – For detailed descriptions, see Section J.1.



Volume III - Past Performance



Offerors shall submit the information requested below as part of their proposal for both the offeror and any proposed subcontractors for subcontracts expected to exceed $650,000.  



The offeror shall complete and submit one (1) form at Attachment 3, Contract Listing, for at five (5), contracts that the offeror considers most relevant in demonstrating their ability to perform the proposed effort, in response to the requirements listed in section C, Work Statement, of this solicitation.  Information shall be submitted on contracts awarded to the organization with a minimum of one year of performance history, and which have concluded no later than five (5) years before the release of this solicitation.  The Government will consider information submitted on contracts completed or in progress, in excess of $650,000 on prime contractor efforts, and subcontractor efforts in excess of $650,000.  All items on each form shall be completed, including a brief description of contract work and comparability to the proposed effort.  



“Relevant” work includes experience with projects similar in scope, size and complexity to the services described in Section C of the solicitation which was performed within the last five (5) years.  It is not sufficient to state that it is comparable in scope, size and complexity.  Rationale shall be provided to demonstrate that it is comparable.



Each offeror with relevant past performance information shall send one (1)  Past Performance Attachment 1 to one (1) point of contact for each contract submitted as a relevant contract. Questionnaires shall be sent to customers (if applicable, critical subcontractors, team contractors, and/or joint venture partners) for each relevant contract.  The Offeror shall send a standard transmittal letter (Attachment 2) to request that POCs complete a Performance Questionnaire and submit (mail or fax) the questionnaire within five (5) working days. Preferred points of contact are, in order of descending preference: program manager, PCO, technical or engineering lead. The points of contact shall return completed questionnaires to:



National Science Foundation

Division of Acquisition & Cooperative Support

Attn:  M. Scott Donley

Suite 475

4201 Wilson Blvd

Arlington, VA 22230

Ph (703) 292-7824    Fax (703) 292-9140

Email: sdonley@nsf.gov



The Business Evaluation Panel (BEP) may conduct follow-up discussions with any of the POCs listed on the contract listing, and/or performance questionnaires, and reserves the right to send out additional questionnaires. The offeror is solely responsible for ensuring that questionnaires are submitted in time for use in the evaluation process, and shall make every effort to achieve this objective.  Once the Performance Questionnaires are completed by the POCs, the information contained therein shall be considered sensitive and shall not be released to the offeror.



If information for the specified time frame cannot be provided, submit a brief explanation (not to exceed one-half page).  Do not submit past performance information for years prior to the last five (5).  If no past performance information is available, submit an explanation and any past performance information for all key personnel related to the requirements of this solicitation. Offerors with no past performance history will receive an evaluation of “neutral.” The offeror may provide information on problems, if any, which were encountered during the performance period, corrective actions taken and the result of those actions.  



The offeror shall not provide general information of their own performance on the identified contracts; general performance information will be obtained from references supplied.



The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate the Offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service.  This may include Government quality awards or private sector awards or certifications.



Each offeror shall be evaluated on performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services.  The Government shall focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration.



The Government shall attempt to verify past performance information on a reasonable number of the identified contracts provided. However, the Government reserves the right to request performance evaluations from sources other than those provided in response to this solicitation.



If an offeror, or the proposed key personnel for the offeror, does not have a past performance history similar to this type of work, the offeror will receive a neutral rating for that portion of the past performance criteria.



The offeror may wish to furnish a letter to commercial customers listed on the “Contract Listing” who may be reluctant to complete the survey or release information about a business relationship without an authorization from the offeror. The offeror may wish to use this letter as a sample to communicate offeror’s authorization to commercial clients. See the sample letter at Attachment 2.







SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

 

M.1 BEST OVERALL RESPONSE



The Government intends to evaluate proposals in accordance with Section M of this RFP and award to the responsible offeror whose proposal represents the best value to the Government. “Best value” is defined as the offer that results in the most advantageous solution for the Government, in consideration of technical, price, and other factors.



M.2 UNBALANCED BIDS/OFFERS 

 

Proposals which are unrealistic in terms of technical commitments or unrealistically high or low in terms of pricing may be deemed to be reflective of an inherent lack of technical competence or indicative of a failure to comprehend the complexity and risks of the proposed work and may be grounds for rejection.



The Government may award a contract without discussions with offerors in accordance with FAR 52.215-1(f) (4). 



 

M.3 EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



Offerors’ technical proposals will be evaluated using the following criteria:



A. TECHNICAL CAPABILITY 



Technical Capability involves the ability to perform the range of tasks identified in the Statement of Work (see Section C) at a high level of quality and in a timely fashion. Technical Capability is composed of the following three (3) subfactors: 

 

 	- Technical Competence

 	- Key Personnel 

- Task Management 



Technical Competence.  Involves the capacity to plan and perform a range of tasks effectively. Effectiveness may be demonstrated by focused approaches to task requirements, selection of personnel whose knowledge and skills will contribute to high quality performance of the task, and production of high quality products.



Technical competence will be evaluated by reviewing:

the offeror's plans for executing the three hypothetical tasks described in Appendix A. The technical panel shall consider the labor categories and hours proposed in the hypothetical task plans in order to assess the realism of the plans;

the overall quality of  five work samples, as measured by the content and style standards outlined in Section C.2.b;

the offeror's capacity, as demonstrated in these work samples and in summary descriptions of other recent projects, to deploy effectively a wide range of relevant skills listed in the Statement of Work Section C.3. At a minimum, work samples should demonstrate skill synthesizing information of various kinds (e.g., tabular, statistical, and textual information from a range of Government and scholarly sources) into coherent reports as described in Sections C.3.a and C.3.b of the Statement of Work. It is also important for work samples to demonstrate skill in as many as possible of the following areas:

developing a range of tables, figures, charts, and other graphical representations of quantitative data as described in Section C.3.c(a);

managing databases as described in Section C.3.c(b-d);



performing qualitative research, including conducting interviews and administering focus groups, especially as these relate to survey research, as described in Section C.3.c(f);



performing a range of statistical and quantitative analyses as described in Section C.3.d; and



conducting and reporting on workshops, as described in Section C.3.e. 



Key and Leadership Personnel. Involves reliance on key  personnel with relevant knowledge, skills and experience. Such personnel contribute to the contractor’s capability to develop thoughtful, innovative, and creative plans for executing tasks effectively and to bring a range of relevant knowledge and skills to bear on task planning and performance.

Quality of key personnel will be evaluated by reviewing:

the range and depth of topical knowledge, as described in Section C.2.a, of those who are proposed as key personnel and will play leadership roles in designated topic areas under the contract; 

the range and quality of skills relevant to Section C.3 of those who are proposed as key personnel under the contract.

Task Management.  Involves the capacity to effectively manage expert technical personnel who perform specialized tasks to enable them to produce timely, high quality work. This includes managing performance across a range of ongoing tasks as well as management within individual tasks.

Task management capacity will be evaluated by reviewing:

the Management Plan;

the project manager’s experience in overseeing high quality work involving a range of skills and topical area expertise that may be involved in this contract, as described in Section C.

the offeror's experience in identifying, recruiting, and managing consultants and subcontractors such that the contractor produces high quality work involving the skills and topical expertise that may be involved in this contract, as described in Section C.

evidence that the offeror can perform quick turnaround tasks in a timely, high quality manner.



B.  COST/PRICE EVALUATION



Proposed cost/price will not be rated or scored.  The total of the proposed prices of the three hypothetical tasks will be evaluated for reasonableness. The Government will perform either cost or price analysis of the offeror/s cost/business proposal in accordance with FAR Parts 15 and 31, as appropriate. .  The cost/price factor may be used as an aid in evaluating the Offeror’s understanding of the work requirement.



.  





C.  PAST PERFORMANCE



Offeror’s past performance will be evaluated based on past performance information presented in their proposals, information obtained by contacting references supplied by the offerors including the following qualitative factors, all of which are of equal importance:



Quality of product or services,

Project management/responsiveness

Cost management

Timeliness of performance,

Customer satisfaction



Proposals received in response to this solicitation will be reviewed and evaluated by the Government. The evaluation will be conducted for the purpose of assessing the potential risk with the offeror in accordance with the past performance factor established by the Government prior to the receipt of proposals..

	

In addition, information obtained through the Department of Defense (DOD) Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), and other information obtained by the Government from other sources may be used in the evaluation.  



The Past Performance Questionnaire (Attachment 1) will be used to elicit information from a maximum of five (5) previous clients (federal, state, local, or commercial). Additionally, offerors will be evaluated on the relevance of their previous experience to the SOW.







D.  SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION 



The Small Disadvantaged Business Participation factor shall be evaluated using the following criteria:



The Government will assess the Offeror’s proposed subcontracting goals and approach to subcontracting will be evaluated based on the degree of participation, providing subcontracting opportunities for, and the extent the Offeror plans to identify and commit to subcontracting with small business, small disadvantaged business, and veteran-owned, service-disabled, HUBZone, and woman-owned small businesses. The Offeror’s proposal will be evaluated to determine the realism of the proposed subcontracting goals and the likelihood of successful accomplishment of the goals.



The Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Factor shall be evaluated using the “meets/fails to meet” criteria.





F.  RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF EVALUATION FACTORS



The Statement of Work in Section C above describes the Government’s baseline requirements.  All offers will be judged against these requirements. In order of descending importance, the factors are:  Technical, Past Performance, Price, and Small Disadvantaged Business Participation.  The Technical Capability and the Past Performance factor, when combined, are significantly more important than the Cost/Price factor.  The Technical Capability factor is significantly more important than the Past Performance factor. Past Performance is significantly more important than the Small Business factor, which is more important than the Small Disadvantaged Business Factor.   



The Technical Capability factor contains three (3) subfactors (technical competence, key and leadership personnel, and task management) described in Section M.3 above. Technical capability subfactors are shown below in descending order of importance:

Technical competence

Key personnel

Task management 








Attachment 1



CONTRACTOR PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION QUESTIONNAIRE



(Check appropriate Box)



Contract No.:   



Contractor being evaluated:  



Contracting Office:  



										

Total Score:	 _	[Sum of the four Performance Elements]	

1 = Poor           2 = Fair           3 = Good           4 = Very Good           5 = Excellent



    

EVALUATED BY:



A.  Organization: _____________________	



B.  Name and Title: ___________________



      Signature: ________________________   Date: __________________                       





C.  Remarks on satisfactory performance.*





D.  Remarks on outstanding performance:*





E.  Remarks on unsatisfactory performance:*







NOTE:  If verbal telephonic response received, complete the following:

		Information obtained by:

		Printed name:  ______________________________________________

               Signature:  ____________________________ Date:  ____________

*Provide data supporting this observation.

 Attach continuation page if necessary; state the item number being addressed.




Attachment Two

CLIENT LETTER

(Suggested Format)



Subject:  RFP No. DACS11P2131





Dear (Insert Client):

We are currently responding to the National Science Foundation, National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics, for this procurement of a contract entitled, "NCSES Analytical and Technical Support Services" (ATSS). 

The Government is placing increased emphasis in its procurement on past performance as a source of selection factor.  It requires that clients of entities responding to solicitations be identified and their participation in the evaluation process be requested.

Based on your knowledge concerning our work, please complete the attached Contractor Performance Information and forward it to the following address by no later than (insert date):

	National Science Foundation

	Division of Acquisition and Cooperative Support

	Attn: M. Scott Donley, Sr. Contracting Officer

	4201 Wilson Blvd.  Suite 475

	Arlington, VA 22230

Your cooperation is appreciated.  Any questions may be directed to: _________________.



					Sincerely,



					(Insert Offeror)




Attachment Three

Contract Listing



Agency or Firm:

	Contract Number:

	Contract Name:

	Program POC:

	Program POC Phone #:

	Contracting POC:

	Contracting POC Phone #:

	Contract Value:

	Contract Period of Performance:





Agency or Firm:

	Contract Number:

	Contract Name:

	Program POC:

	Program POC Phone #:

	Contracting POC:

	Contracting POC Phone #:

	Contract Value:

	Contract Period of Performance:





Agency or Firm:

	Contract Number:

	Contract Name:

	Program POC:

	Program POC Phone #:

	Contracting POC:

	Contracting POC Phone #:

	Contract Value:

	Contract Period of Performance:





Agency or Firm:

	Contract Number:

	Contract Name:

	Program POC:

	Program POC Phone #:

	Contracting POC:

	Contracting POC Phone #:

	Contract Value:

	Contract Period of Performance:









Agency or Firm:

	Contract Number:

	Contract Name:

	Program POC:

	Program POC Phone #:

	Contracting POC:

	Contracting POC Phone #:

	Contract Value:

	Contract Period of Performance:





















Item

Item Description

Contract Year One 

Hourly Rate

Contract Year Two

Hourly Rate

Contract Year Three

Hourly Rate

0001

Project Manager

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0002

Task Manager

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0003

Distinguished Scientist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0004

Senior Scientist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0005

Scientist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0006

Research Assistant II

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0007

Research Assistant I

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0008

Database Mgr./Developer/Sr. Programmer

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0009

Social Science Programmer

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0010

Senior Survey Director

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0011

Data Collection Supervisor

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0012

Interviewer

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0013

Event Planner

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0014

Event Management Specialist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0015

Facilitator/Focus Group Leader

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0016

Technical Writer/Editor

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0017

Sr. Graphics Specialist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0018

Graphics Specialist

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*

0019

Clerical Admin. Support

$0.00*

$0.00*

$0.00*



FAR Clause #            Title            Date      Change 

      ____________        _________       _____      _______ 



Volume

Volume Title

No. of Copies



I

Technical Requirements:

Cover Letter

Letters of Commitment

Master Index 

Summary Introduction

Management and Work Plans

Work Samples

Leadership Personnel Descriptions and Resumes

Original and six (6) copies





Volume

Title

Content

Copies

II

Cost/Price/ Proposal



Section 2.0 Cost Volume Outline



(i) Proposal Title Page

(ii) Table of Contents

(iii) List of Figures

(iv) List of Tables

(v) List of Appendices

(vi) CD

Original and 3 copies. 















Two disks 



Loaded Labor Rates



Section 2.1 Loaded Labor Rates: (Prime Contractor, Subcontractors and Total Team)

Section 2.2 Other Supporting Documentation

Section 2.3 Subcontracting Plan

Section 2.4 Exceptions

Executed SF 33

2.5 Other Business Factors 

Financial Condition and Capability Subcontracting Plan

Small Disadvantaged Business Participation





Item

Item Description

Proposal Preparation Hours 

0001

Project Manager

180

0002

Task Manager

220

0003

Distinguished Scientist

120

0004

Senior Scientist

1,240

0005

Scientist

2,720

0006

Research Assistant II

940

0007

Research Assistant I

740

0008

Database Mgr./Developer/Sr. Programmer

140

0009

Social Science Programmer

80

0010

Senior Survey Director

24

0011

Data Collection Supervisor

10

0012

Interviewer

60

0013

Event Planner

160

0014

Event Management Specialist

146

0015

Facilitator/Focus Group Leader

12

0016

Technical Writer/Editor

148

0017

Sr. Graphics Specialist

88

0018

Graphics Specialist

248

0019

Clerical Admin. Support

520



Item

Item Description

Proposal Preparation Hours 

0001

Project Manager

180

0002

Task Manager

220

0003

Distinguished Scientist

120

0004

Senior Scientist

1,240

0005

Scientist

2,720

0006

Research Assistant II

940

0007

Research Assistant I

740

0008

Database Mgr./Developer/Sr. Programmer

140

0009

Social Science Programmer

80

0010

Senior Survey Director

24

0011

Data Collection Supervisor

10

0012

Interviewer

60

0013

Event Planner

160

0014

Event Management Specialist

146

0015

Facilitator/Focus Group Leader

12

0016

Technical Writer/Editor

148

0017

Sr. Graphics Specialist

88

0018

Graphics Specialist

248

0019

Clerical Admin. Support

520



Item

Item Description

Proposal Preparation Hours 

0001

Project Manager

180

0002

Task Manager

220

0003

Distinguished Scientist

120

0004

Senior Scientist

1,240

0005

Scientist

2,720

0006

Research Assistant II

940

0007

Research Assistant I

740

0008

Database Mgr./Developer/Sr. Programmer

140

0009

Social Science Programmer

80

0010

Senior Survey Director

24

0011

Data Collection Supervisor

10

0012

Interviewer

60

0013

Event Planner

160

0014

Event Management Specialist

146

0015

Facilitator/Focus Group Leader

12

0016

Technical Writer/Editor

148

0017

Sr. Graphics Specialist

88

0018

Graphics Specialist

248

0019

Clerical Admin. Support

520



  Performance Elements

1

2

3

4

5



  1.  Quality of  Product or Service











Project Management/     

      Responsiveness













  3.  Cost Management













  4.  Timeliness of Performance













  5.  Customer Satisfaction









