Included within are the following: 

	Section I: Instructions to Offerors 

	Section II: Evaluation Criteria

	Section III: Contract Type

	Section IV: Period of Performance

	Section V: Place of Performance 

	Section VI: Statement of Work

	Section VII: Contract Clauses 



SECTION I: INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS 



This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items in accordance with the format in subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. The solicitation number is PC-11-R-006 and is issued as a Request for Proposal (RFP). This is a 100% small business set-aside. All responsible sources may submit a proposal. 



The provisions and clauses incorporated into this solicitation document are those in effect through the Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-51. Provisions and clauses incorporated by reference have the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. The full text of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) can be accessed on the Internet at  . Oral communications are not acceptable in response to this notice. 



The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code is 519- Other Information Services/519190 – All other Information Services. The small business size standard for this NAICS code is$7.0 million. Offerors must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) at  , in order to be considered for award.



Offerors shall submit electronically two (2) separate proposals, one technical proposal (key personnel resumes and past performance/references) and one price proposal (price schedule, and supportive worksheets/documentation) to Ms. Adrianne Wells at  . Both proposals shall be 12 pt. font single spaced.   



Technical Proposals (Volume I): 15 pg. limitation 



Key Personnel: Resumes for the (2) key personnel (Messaging Engineer/Administrator and the Linux Engineers/Administrators) shall show prior education, training, and experience that are relevant to the Statement of Work.        

Proposed personnel will be evaluated on their qualifications and skills as demonstrated in the resumes and on potential interviews. 

Interviews may be conducted at the option of the Government.  

For each resume, Offerors shall list candidate’s phone number and a confirmation that proposed personnel will be available for an interview if requested by the government.    

All proposed personnel must be available to begin work on 1, OCTOBER 2011. There is a maximum of five (5) resumes for each of the two positions.



Past Performance: Include at least 3 companies that can be contacted for past performances/references. 

Information should include the company name, contact person, phone number and brief description of the work performed.  

Offerors will be evaluated under past performance based primarily on the extent and quality of past performance in providing services similar in scope, complexity of work, quality of service, timeliness of performance, and cost control. 





Pricing Proposals (Volume II): No page limitation



Complete Attachment 1: Messaging and Linux System Support Pricing Schedule





Provide a detailed, line-item list including at a minimum: description of personnel performing services; hours required; unit cost, total cost;  and any and all discounts, with a summary total, representing the dollar amount offered in the Firm Fixed Monthly Price.



All worksheets and supportive documentation, in determining the Firmed Fixed Monthly Price, shall be provided with the proposal to verify validity of computations and determine if costs are “fair & reasonable”.  A further breakdown of cost elements and/or cost related information may be requested during proposal review and evaluation.



The clause 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders – Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition and a statement regarding which, if any, of the additional FAR clauses cited in the clause are applicable to this acquisition.

 

The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforms to the solicitation and will be most advantageous to the Government. 



All clarification questions shall be submitted no later than Friday, June 10, 2011 @ 12:00 PM EST to  and . 



Once questions are answered, the final request for proposal will be posted on FedBizOpps with a final suspense time/date.



Late is late. No proposals submitted after the deadline will be accepted. 



SECTION II: EVALUATION CRITERIA



This contract will be awarded as a Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA). The award will be based on lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for non-cost factors.





SECTION III: CONTRACT TYPE



The contract will be awarded as Firm Fixed price contract. The contract will have one (1) base plus four (4) one year option periods. 





SECTION IV: PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance will be one base year period, with four (4) one year options as follows: 



Base Year One: 	September 30, 2011 – September 29, 2012 



Option Year One: 	September 30, 2012 – September 29, 2013 



Option Year Two: 	September 30, 2013 – September 29, 2014



Option Year Three: 	September 30, 2014 – September 29, 2015



Option Year Four: 	September 30, 2015 – September 29, 2016





SECTION V: PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



All work (“Services”) performed as a result of this solicitation shall be performed at the Peace Corps Headquarters, 1111 20th Street, NW; Washington, DC  20526.



SECTION VI: STATEMENT OF WORK 

BACKGROUND 

 The Peace Corps conducts global IT operations through a combination of contracts and full time employees.

The agency’s global IT infrastructure provides services to a user base of nearly 3,500 full and part-time personnel distributed throughout the world including approximately 1,000 recruitment and administrative staff located in domestic offices.  Domestic IT and communications services are provided at the Peace Corps Headquarters, 9 Regional Recruiting Offices (RRO), as well as to remote users via VPN.  As the global technical infrastructure matures, the Peace Corps intends to continue to take full advantage of evolving technological advances to support the agency’s mission and objectives.

Approximately 850 staff members make up the Headquarter Offices located in Washington, D.C.  Among the fourteen primary business units, virtually all IT services are managed and coordinated by the Office of the Chief Information Officer (CIO), but pockets of IT functions are maintained by other business units, namely: Office of the Chief Financial Officer (financial system), Office of Volunteer Support (medical services), and the Center for Field Assistance (field support and research).  An additional 150 domestic staff, composed of recruitment and administrative personnel, are located throughout the country in the Regional Recruiting Offices (RRO).

SCOPE OF WORK 



2.1 Messaging 

The Contractor shall provide expert and senior administration services for the Peace Corps’ Enterprise Messaging environment.  The Peace Corps’ Messaging Environment includes a global implementation of Microsoft Exchange 2003 and Microsoft Exchange 2010, Blackberry Services, Outlook Web Access, Barracuda spam filtering appliances, and Antigen for Exchange antivirus solution. The Contractor’s ability to support, backup, monitor, and maintain a stable messaging environment and support the administrative requirements of affected business units is critical to the Peace Corps’ global operations.

Current Messaging Environment

1 Exchange 2003 2-node cluster Mailbox server located at the Washington, D.C. headquarters

2 Exchange 2003 Front-End Servers located at the Washington, D.C. headquarters

2 Exchange 2010 servers holding the Hub Transport and Client Access roles located at the Washington, D.C. headquarters

Approximately 30 Exchange  2010 servers holding the Hub Transport, Client Access and Mailbox roles located overseas

Approximately 25 Exchange 2003 Mailbox Servers located overseas

Approximately 20 additional Exchange 2003 Mailbox Servers that are currently not part of the primary Peace Corps Exchange Organization but are in the process of being integrated by Peace Corps overseas deployment teams.

2 Barracuda Spam Filter Appliances located at the Washington, D.C. headquarters



2.2 Financial Systems 

The Contractor shall provide Infrastructure management support including, but not limited to, services, equipment, and tools related to system management of all Linux based systems.  This includes engineering, administration, configuration, provisioning, security, performance and capacity management, and incident & disaster recovery management functions at the HQ and Disaster Recovery location for Peace Corps.  These functions encompass Linux based hardware such as, but not limited to, servers, printers, tape devices, and SAN equipment attached to Linux based systems.

The Contractor shall monitor and maintain system reliability, availability, performance, capacity, as well as recommend and implement enhancements to the Linux environment and associated systems to prevent performance anomalies.  The Contractor shall provide support for the following systems security features, at a minimum: user access authorization and authentication, problem troubleshooting and resolution, server and system patching and updates, system and service monitoring, system recovery, intrusion protection, security monitoring and event logging.

The Contractor shall provide preventative and remedial maintenance required to meet system availability and performance requirements as specified.  Unless specified or functions dictate otherwise, the Contractor shall report on the status (e.g. performance degradation, upgrade recommendations, usage or excessive usage, problem resolution, etc) of the Linux environment and infrastructure to the Peace Corps.



REQUIREMENTS 



3.1 Messaging 



The Contractor is responsible for the following tasks and deliverables: 

The Contactor shall provide two people, named as key personnel, to be on-site between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday excepting federal holidays.  The Contractor shall provide 24 hour/7 day a week emergency on-call administration.  The Contractor shall provide support and administration for the global messaging environment which currently includes but is not limited to:

Microsoft Exchange servers and services

RIM Blackberry Enterprise servers and services

Various email client types including Outlook, Outlook Web Access and mobile devices

Barracuda spam filtering appliances and services

Antigen for Exchange Antivirus services

The Contractor shall conduct administration activities including:

Problem troubleshooting and resolution

Conduct system patching and routine updates to keep environment current with industry norms and best practices and to minimize security related vulnerabilities

Hardware, System, and Service Monitoring

Monitor System Backups and conduct system recovery when necessary

The Contactor shall provide 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. onsite and emergency 24 hour/7 day a week on call administration and support. 

With regard to the service and systems mentioned above, the Contractor shall additionally:

Be ultimately responsible for the overall health and operability of the messaging environment globally for the Peace Corps.

Provide engineering assistance and technical analysis as directed by the Peace Corps within normal working hours as work load permits.

Maintain a messaging environment in the Peace Corps’ Enterprise Test Lab that is representative of the production messaging environment

Provide assistance, troubleshoot and support the overseas support and deployment teams for issues relating to messaging systems.

Produce appropriate documentation as defined by the Project Management Office and/or Chief of Global Operations including weekly status reports, Change Management Requests, and After Action Reports

Develop and maintain design, build operations and disaster recovery documentation for the messaging system

Maintain messaging system recovery plans and participate in all ITDR activities

Provide regular reports on system performance, load, and utilization metrics in order to help the Peace Corps plan for needed improvements and upgrades

Monitor and analyze system, application, antivirus, authentication, and security logs

Use the Service Desk tools provided by the Peace Corps

Conduct daily operational tasks such as adding and removing mailboxes, creating connectors to new offices.

Participate in, and adhere to, the policies defined by the Peace Corps’ Change, IT Governance and IT Security processes (provided to the Awardee by the CIO Office).



3.2 Financial Systems 



The Contractor is responsible for the following tasks and deliverables: 

Provide engineering support to the database administrators utilizing best practices and industry standards to allow the Peace Corps to achieve its ultimate goal on achieving platform stability.  Provide Disaster Recovery engineering support across all Linux platforms per the Peace Corps Business Impact Assessment (BIA).

Implement highly reliable solutions in a Linux environment after taking them through the appropriate build, development, and testing lifecycle.

Manage event and workload processes across all Linux platforms.  Provide technical support for all Linux hardware/equipment of the Data Center computing infrastructure.  Support all Linux based infrastructure software computer-processing services (e.g., operating systems, messaging, collaborative computing platforms, Internet, Intranet, and Extranet).  

Provide data backup of Linux based file systems and databases in accordance with the Peace Corps’ established policies.  Provide Disaster Recovery support across all Linux platforms per the Peace Corps Business Impact Assessment (BIA).

Coordinate with Change Control Board regarding all changes in the environment, and support security requirements and incident management as outlined by the Peace Corps.

Operations and administration services are the activities associated with the provisioning and day-to-day management of the installed Linux systems and software environment.



STAFFING REQUIREMENTS AND SKILLS SETS



The Key Personnel for this solicitation are the: Messaging Engineer/Administrator and the Linux Engineer/Administrator. Key Personnel are required to be on-site as needed for weekly and/or periodic meetings and other duties that require on-site presence.  The contractor must give at least 60 days notice for changes in either of these positions and candidates must meet the requirements listed below.





4.1 Messaging



The Senior Messaging Engineer/Administrator must be an experienced provider of messaging systems administration and management with strong experience specific to the following products in a distributed, multi-site environment:

Microsoft Exchange Server 2003

Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 

Microsoft Windows Server 2003

Microsoft Windows Server 2008

Barracuda Spam Filtering Systems

Microsoft  Antigen for Exchange

RIM BlackBerry Enterprise Server

Additionally, the Senior Messaging Administrator must have strong experience working with the following technologies and practices:

Exchange Related Backup & Recovery and Security

Microsoft Active Directory

Microsoft Internet Information Services 

SMTP

DNS

TLS and SSL

Windows Powershell

TCP/IP Networking

LDAP

Outlook Web Access/app (OWA)

Outlook Anywhere (RPC over HTTPS)

Windows Mobile Direct Push Technology

Patch Management

System Testing and Performance Tuning

Resource Planning

Technical Documentation

Log monitoring and analysis

In addition to the requirements above, it is desirable that  the Senior Messaging Administrator have some experience working with the following technologies and practices:

RSA SecurID

HP Proliant Servers

CommVault

Syslog server

System Performance Monitoring



4.2 Financial Systems 



The Linux Engineer/Administrator must be an experienced provider of Redhat Enterprise Linux systems systems administration and management. 



Linux Engineer/Administrator – to be an experienced provider of  Redhat Enterprise Linux systems engineering, administration and management with strong experience in Best Practices, SAN administration, Volume Management, Performance Tuning, File systems, Backup & Recovery, Oracle installation, debugging, and tuning, RHEL 5.x, Disaster Recovery, Patch Management, Software installation, debug, and maintenance, System Tuning, Security (e.g. PowerBroker, TCP Wrappers, Sudo, SSH), Resource Planning, Documentation, and Shell Scripting.  Virtualization,  Linux platform transitioning, TCP/IP Networking, Cisco, Firewalls, VLAN, VPN, Licensing, Financials Experience, Web Front End Experience, Workload monitoring & management, Event notifications, and SNMP are highly desirable.

PEACE CORPS DOMESTIC LOCATIONS 

The Peace Corps currently maintains a presence in the following cities.  Other than the Washington, D.C. headquarters and the Atlanta, GA disaster recovery site, none of these locations have local messaging servers:



PEACE CORPS OVERSEAS LOCATIONS 

The Peace Corps currently maintains a presence in the following countries, most of which have local messaging server(s) and services that are a component of the Peace Corps global messaging environment.  Overseas locations currently have a host country national on staff that is trained to provide tier one support for the local components of the global messaging system.





Quality Assurance plan 































Peace Corps Organizational Structure

8.1 Organizational Chart

8.2 Peace Corps Units and Offices

Africa (AF)

Europe, Mediterranean, and Asia Operations (EMA)

Inter-America and the Pacific Operations (IAP)

Crisis Corps (CC)

Center for Field Assistance and Applied Research (CEN)

Office of AIDS Relief

Office of the Chief Information Officer (CIO)

Office of the Director (D)

Office of Strategic Information, Research and Planning

Office of the Inspector General (IG)

Office of Management (M)

Office of Acquisitions and Contract Management (OACM)

Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)

Safety and Security (SS)

Office of Volunteer Recruitment and Selection (VRS)

Office of Volunteer Support (VS)

8.3 Peace Corps Policies, Procedures, & Standards 

The Peace Corps Manual is the official source of agency wide policies and procedures.  Specific Manual Sections of interest are:

MS 129: Office of the Chief Information Officer: Organization, Mission, and Functions

MS 542: Peace Corps IT Security Policies and Procedures

Copies of portions of internal Peace Corps and Office of the CIO procedures and standards will be available to the awardee upon a request to the Chief Information Officer

IT Security Requirement



9.1 Disclosure of Information



Information made available to the Contractor by the Government for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer.  Contractor agrees to assume responsibility for protecting the confidentiality of Government records, which are not public information.  Each Contractor or employee of the Contractor to whom information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the Contractor that such information may be disclosed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein.



Contactor agrees to ensure that all Services meet the security requirements as specified in federal regulations and legislation, such as:

OMB Circular A-130 Appendix III (Management of Information Resources);

OMB Memorandum M-06-16 (Protection of Sensitive Agency Information, June 23, 2006);

OMB Memorandum M-06-19 (Reporting Incidents Involving Personally Identifiable Information, July 12, 2006);

OMB Memorandum M-07-11 (Implementation of Commonly Accepted Security Configurations for Windows Operating Systems); and

Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347 Section III). 



Contactor agrees to ensure that all Services meet the security requirements as specified in Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Documents, such as:

Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules;

FIPS 197, Advanced Encryption Standard;

FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems; and 

FIPS 201, Personal Identification of Federal Employees and Contractors.



 All Peace Corps policies, including Manual Section (MS) 542, and the 17 IT Security Requirements (ITSR) control family documents released at the time the task for the deliverable begins must be met.  (documents will be provided to the Awardee by the CIO Office)

KEY PERSONNEL 

The successful Offeror’s/ Contractor’s personnel assigned to the Services shall be considered key personnel.

The key personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to work performance. At least 30 days prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs or contracts (or as soon as possible, if an individual must be replaced, for example, as a result of leaving the employ of the Contractor), the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and shall submit comprehensive justification for the diversion or replacement request (including proposed substitutions for key personnel) to permit evaluation by the Government of the impact on performance under this contract. The Contractor shall not divert or otherwise replace any key personnel without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer (CO).  The Government may modify the contract to add or delete key personnel at the request of the Contractor or Government. 

CONFIDENTIALITY/DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION

There shall be no dissemination or publication, except within and between the Contractor and any subcontractors, of information obtained or developed under this contract or contained in the reports to be furnished pursuant to this contract, without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) or the CO.

OBSERVANCE OF LEGAL HOLIDAYS AND ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (AUG 2002)

13.1 Peace Corps observes the following days as holidays:

New Year’s Day

Martin Luther King’s Birthday

President’s Day 

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day 

Columbus Day

Veteran’s Day

Thanksgiving Day 

Christmas Day 

 Any other day designated by Federal law, Executive Order or Presidential Proclamation. 

When any holiday specified in (13.1) falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed.  When any such holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. Observances of such days by Government personnel shall not be cause for additional period of performance or entitlement to compensation except as set forth in the contract. If the Contractor’s personnel work on a holiday, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, unless authorized pursuant to an overtime clause elsewhere in this contract. 

Peace Corps may close a Peace Corps facility for all or a portion of a business day as a result of:

Granting administrative leave to non-essential Peace Corps employees (e.g., unanticipated holiday); 

Inclement weather; 

Failure of Congress to appropriate operational funds; 

Or any other reason. 

 In such cases, Contractor personnel not classified as essential, i.e., not performing critical round-the-clock services or tasks (or expected or funded activities in the case of a funding lapse), which are not already on duty at the facility, shall not report to the facility. Such Contractor personnel already present shall be dismissed and shall leave the facility. 

In such cases, Contractor personnel classified as essential shall continue to report to the facility to perform round-the-clock requirements of critical tasks already in operation or scheduled for performance during the period in which Peace Corps employees are dismissed, and shall be guided by any specific instructions of the Contracting Officer or his/her duly authorized representative. 

When Contractor personnel services are not required or provided due to closure of a Peace Corps facility as described in this clause, the Contractor shall be compensated as follows:

For fixed-price contracts, deductions in the Contractor’s price will be computed as follows:

The deduction rate in dollars per day will be equal to the per month contract price divided by 21 days per month. 

The deduction rate in dollars per day will be multiplied by the number of days services are not required or provided. 

If services are provided for portions of days, appropriate adjustment will be made by the Contracting Officer to ensure that the Contractor is compensated for services provided. 

For cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials and labor-hour type contracts, Peace Corps shall not reimburse as direct costs, the costs of salaries or wages of Contractor personnel for the period during which such personnel are dismissed from, or do not have access to, the facility.

If administrative leave is granted to Contractor personnel as a result of conditions stipulated in any “Excusable Delays” clause of this contract, it will be without loss to the Contractor. The cost of salaries and wages to the Contractor for the period of any such excused absence shall be a reimbursable item of direct cost hereunder for employees whose regular time is normally charged, and a reimbursable item of indirect cost for employees whose time is normally charged indirectly in accordance with the Contractor’s accounting policy.  

Personnel Security Clearances for On-Site Contractor Personnel

All Contractor employees who will be required to work on-site at Peace Corps facilities must undergo personnel security processing consisting of, at a minimum, a National Agency Check (NAC).

Those companies assigning contract employees to positions which will require access to classified information will obtain security clearances for those employees through Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) for the appropriate level of security clearance.  Upon receipt of either an interim or final security clearance, the company shall issue a visit request letter, certifying the employee’s level of access to the Peace Corps, Office of Personnel Security.  The Office of Personnel Security (SEC) will notify the Office of Physical Security that the certification clearance has been received and that a building pass may be issued to the Contractor.

Contractors assigning contract employees to positions which will not require access to classified information will obtain site access authorizations for those employees through the Peace Corps, Office of Personnel Security, at no cost to the company.  At the beginning of a contract, or when new personnel are assigned to an existing contract, the Contractor will be required to submit to the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) the Personnel Security Questionnaire (SF-85, SF-85P or SF-86) appropriate for the sensitivity of the position in which the contractor employee will work, in addition to two (2) copies of Form FD-258 (Contractor Fingerprint Cards), and a Fair Credit Reporting Act Release.  These forms must be furnished to the COTR three (3) business days prior to the time the Contractor employee is expected to begin work.  SEC will conduct expedited checks of selected information and if no issues are present, will notify the Office of Physical Security that a “No Objection Waiver” (NOW) has been granted and that a building pass may be issued to the Contractor employee.  The NOW will permit the Contractor employee to work on-site at Peace Corps facilities prior to the completion of the investigation and the issuance of final site access authorizations.  The Peace Corps may, for any reason, withdraw the NOW and bar the employee from access to Peace Corps facilities.

If for any reason, at the sole discretion of the Peace Corps, the Office of Personnel Security denies a Contractor employee a NOW or a final site access authorization, the Contractor shall immediately furnish a suitable employee to provide the required services.

At the end of Contractor employee’s performance at the Peace Corps facility, whether at the end of the contract or during the period of performance, the Contractor employee shall turn in his/her Peace Corps issued identification badge to the Office of Personnel Security prior to departure. The applicable Peace Corps Staffing Analyst for the COTR will promptly remove the Contractor employee from Peace Corps software tracking systems such as e-mail, Personnel Tracking System (PTS), etc.

Organizational Conflict of Interest

The term “organizational conflict of interest” means that the Contractor (which term hereinafter shall be deemed to include its chief executives, directors, any consultants, or subcontractors utilized under this contract other than a vendor selling incidental material) has interests which (i) may diminish its capacity to give impartial, technically sound, objective assistance and advice in performing this contract, (ii) may otherwise result in a biased work product under this contract, or (iii) may result in an unfair competitive advantage to itself or others. 

The Contractor’s attention is directed to FAR Subpart 9.5, Organizational Conflicts of Interest. In the execution of certain contract tasks, it is anticipated that assigned Contractor personnel will require access to confidential or proprietary business, technical and financial information belonging to the Government or other companies. The information may include but is not limited to pre-decisional budget and acquisition sensitive information, preparation of specifications or work statements, and evaluation services. After receipt thereof, the Contractor and affected individuals shall treat such information as confidential and agree not to appropriate such information to its own use or to disclose such information to third parties unless specifically authorized by the contracting officer in writing. The foregoing obligations, however, shall not apply to:

Information which, at the time of receipt by the Contractor, is in the public domain; 

Information which is published after receipt thereof by the Contractor or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of the Contractor;

Information which the Contractor can demonstrate was in his possession at the time of receipt thereof and was not acquired directly or indirectly from the Government or other companies;

Information, which the Contractor can demonstrate, was received by it from a third party that did not require the Contractor to hold it in confidence.



The Contractor shall obtain the written agreement, in a form satisfactory to the contracting officer, of each employee permitted access, whereby the employee agrees that he will not discuss, divulge or disclose any such information or data to any person or entity except those persons within the Contractor’s organization directly concerned with the performance of the contract.



The Contractor agrees, if requested by the Government, to sign an agreement identical, in all material respects, to the provisions of this clause, with each company supplying information to the Contractor under this contract, and to supply a copy of such signed agreement to the Contracting Officer. From time to time upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall supply the Government with reports itemizing information received as confidential, proprietary, pre-decisional budget information, or acquisition sensitive information, and setting forth the company or companies from which the Contractor received such information.





The Contractor agrees that upon request by the Contracting Officer it will execute a Contracting Officer approved agreement with any party whose facilities or proprietary data it is given access to or is furnished, restricting use and disclosure of the data or the information obtained from the facilities. Upon request by the Contracting Officer, Contractor personnel shall also sign such an agreement. 



If after award, the Contractor discovers an organizational conflict of interest, with respect to this contract, it shall make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer. The disclosure shall include identification of the conflict, the manner in which it arose, and a description of the action the Contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, eliminate or neutralize the conflict. The Government may, however, terminate the contract. 





In the event that the Contractor was aware of an organizational conflict of interest prior to award of this contract and did not disclose the conflict to the Contracting Officer or becomes aware of an organizational conflict of interest after award of this contract and does not disclose the conflict of interest within ten (10) working days of becoming aware of such conflict, the Government may terminate the contract and the Contractor shall not be entitled to reimbursement of any cost incurred in performing this contract or payment of any fee there under. Further, such costs shall not be allocable or chargeable, directly or indirectly, to any other contract with the Government.



The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies of the Government provided by law or under this contract.





The Contractor agrees that during performance of the contract and for a period of three (3) years after the completion of performance of this contract, the Contractor, including all divisions thereof, and any affiliate of the Contractor, any joint venture involving the Contractor, any entity into or with which it may subsequently merge or affiliate, or any other successor or assign of the Contractor, shall not:

Supply information or material received from this contract, to any firm participating in or having a known prospective interest in the subject matter areas for which the sensitive information described in paragraph (i) above was initially submitted, nor enter into any contractual relationship which would affect or appear to affect the equity and integrity of its recommendations.

Furnish to the United States Government, either as a prime Contractor or as a subcontractor, any component of any system for which the sensitive information described in paragraph (1) above was initially submitted, that it is not currently obligated to deliver for defense purposes. 

This provision shall flow down to all subcontracts and teaming agreements. 

No data provided to the Contractor or collected by the Contractor for the purpose of work performance shall be used outside of the contract.  At the end of the contract term, the Contractor and all subcontractors shall return said data and destroy additional copies of said data files, and provide notice to the Government that is has done so.

SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 

The contractor is responsible for the protection and confidentiality of all Peace Corps technical data and vulnerability findings.  The contractor must ensure that all information systems under its purview are protected in a manner that is consistent with levels for Sensitive but unclassified information at all times.  The contractor must protect the information and information technology resources of the Peace Corps as proprietary to the Peace Corps.

16.1 Data Security Requirements

Peace Corps information systems contain sensitive information, as defined in the Computer Security Act of 1987 (PL 100-235), and contain personal information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (PL 93-579 and amendments).  It will be the Contractor’s responsibility to familiarize and brief employees and subcontractors on the provisions of the Privacy Act.  FAR clauses, 52.224-1: “Privacy Act Notification” and 52.224-2: “Privacy Act”, are hereby incorporated by reference.

The confidentiality and disclosure provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title I of the American with Disabilities Act prohibit disclosure of any charge or charge-related information.  The Contractor shall agree that such information will not be disclosed and will only be used for the performance of their responsibilities under this contract.

Personnel Security Requirements

It is the policy of Peace Corps to exclude from employment any persons who have engaged in intelligence activity or related work or who have been employed by or connected with an intelligence Agency.  Contractor personnel include subcontractors as well.

All Contractor personnel assigned to these tasks must be able to read, write, speak, and understand English.



All Contractor personnel accessing the Peace Corps HQ Data Center, where the majority of the LAN/WAN equipment and network server are housed, must be U.S. citizens.





All Contractor personnel who will be working onsite and certain offsite personnel, designated by the CO, shall complete either a Limited Background Investigation (LBI) or Access National Agency Check with Inquiry (ANACI). 



Peace Corps representatives shall have the option to validate all clearance levels and authorities.

Contracting Officer Responsibilities

The Contracting Officer (CO) is the only person authorized to approve changes or modify any of the requirements under this contract.  In the event the Contractor effects any change at the direction of any person other than the CO, the change will be considered to have been made without authority and no adjustment will be made in the contract price to cover any increase in costs incurred as a result.

The Contractor shall submit requests for modification of this contract to the CO with a copy of the request to the appropriate Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).

 Contractual problems of any nature that may arise during the life of this contract must be handled in conformance with very specific public laws and regulations (e.g., Federal Acquisition Regulation).  Only the CO is authorized to formally resolve such problems.  Therefore, the COTR and the Contractor are hereby directed to bring all such contractual problems to the immediate attention of the CO. 

Requests for information on matters related to this contract, such as explanation of terms, reference requests, payment disputes, and contract interpretation, shall be submitted to the CO.

The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COtR) Responsibilities

The CO will appoint a COTR in writing.  The COTR will represent the CO in the technical phases of the work.  The COTR will provide no supervisory or instructional assistance to Contractor personnel.

The COTR is not authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of the contract.  Changes in the scope of work will be made only by the CO by properly executed modifications to the contract.  The COTR responsibilities shall include:

Conducting inspection and acceptance in accordance with FAR 52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES – FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996)



Monitoring the Contractor's performance to ensure compliance with technical requirements of the contract.



Review and approval of monthly status reports, etc. 





Review and approval of monthly invoices.



Verifying and certifying that the items have been inspected and meet the requirements of the contract.





Immediately notifying the CO, in writing, if performance is not proceeding satisfactorily.



Ensuring that changes in work under the contract are not initiated before a modification is issued by the CO.





Providing the CO a written request and justification for changes.



Upon approval of the CO, furnishing interpretations relative to the meaning of technical specifications, and technical advice relative to CO approvals of subcontracts, overtime, travel to general purpose meetings, etc.





Inspecting and accepting services, including visiting the Contractor's facilities to check performance as authorized by contract inspection clause on a non-interference basis. This may include, but is not limited to, evaluation of the following:

Actual performance versus schedule and reported performance; and

Changes in technical performance which may affect financial status, personnel or labor difficulties, over extension of resources, etc.



At the completion of the contract, the COTR informs the CO concerning the following:

All deliverables and services required to be furnished and/or performed under the contract; and

Prepares a performance report detailing compliance with requirements, quality assurance, timely completion, and any problems associated with the contract/TOs.

The COTR will furnish technical information to the CO to provide specific details, milestones to be met within the terms of the contract, and any other information of a technical nature necessary to perform the work specified in the contract.  The COTR shall not issue any instructions which would constitute a contractual change.  The COTR is NOT authorized to re-delegate his/her authority.

Technical Direction (MAY 2003)  

Performance of the Services under this contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the Peace Corps Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) as delegated by the Contracting Officer (CO). The term "technical direction" is defined to include, without limitation:

Providing direction to the Contractor that redirects contract efforts, shifts work emphasis between work areas or tasks, requires pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fills in details, or otherwise serves to accomplish the contractual statement of work.

Providing written information to the Contractor that assists in interpreting drawings, specifications, or technical portions of the work description.

Reviewing and, where required by the contract, approving technical reports, drawings, 

Specifications and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government.



The Contractor will receive a copy of the written COTR designation from the contracting officer. It will specify the extent of the COTR's authority to act on behalf of the contracting officer. The Contractor shall follow only the technical direction from the COTR or the Contracting Officer.



Technical direction must be within the scope of work stated in the contract. The COTR does not have the authority to, and may not, issue any technical direction that:

Constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the statement of work;

Constitutes a change as defined in the FAR 52.243-1;

In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total estimated contract cost, the fee (if any), or the time required for contract performance;

Changes any of the expressed terms, conditions or specifications of the contract; or

Interferes with the contractor's right to perform the terms and conditions of the contract.



All technical direction from the COTR shall be issued in writing or, if issued orally, he/she will confirm such direction in writing within five calendar days after oral issuance. The COTR may issue such guidance via telephone, facsimile, or electronic mail. Electronic mail shall serve as a method of written guidance.



The Contractor must proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly issued by the COTR in the manner prescribed by this clause and within its authority under the provisions of this clause. If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction by the COTR falls within one of the categories defined in (3)(a) through (3)(e) of this clause, the Contractor must not proceed and must notify the Contracting Officer in writing within five (5) working days after receipt of any such instruction or direction. Upon receiving the notification from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer must:

Advise the Contractor in writing within thirty (30) days after receipt of the contractor's letter that the technical direction is within the scope of the contract effort and does not constitute a change under FAR 52.243-1;

Advise the Contractor in writing within a reasonable time that the Government will issue a written change order; or

Advise the Contractor in writing within a reasonable time not to proceed with the instruction or direction of the COTR.



A failure of the Contractor and Contracting Officer either to agree that the technical direction is within the scope of the contract or to agree upon the contract action to be taken with respect to the technical direction will be subject to the provisions of the clause entitled "Disputes." 

Contractual Problems

Contractual problems, of any nature, that may arise during the life of this contract must be handled in conformance with specific laws and regulations.  The Contractor and the COTR shall bring all contracting problems to the immediate attention of the Contracting Officer.  Only the Contracting officer is authorized to formally resolve such problems.

Requests for Information

Requests for information on matters related to this contract, such as explanation of terms and contract interpretation, shall be submitted in writing to the Contracting Officer.  Written communications shall make reference to the contract number and shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer.

Invoice Requirements

Invoices shall be submitted monthly, to the address shown on the cover page of this contract.  The format of the invoice and/or accompanying documentation shall be agreed to between the COTR and the Contractor.  The invoice shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:

Name and address of the Contractor

Invoice date and invoice number

Period of performance covered by the invoice

Contract Number

Description, price(s), date of service, and quantity(ies) of services and supplies for which payment is being requested

Shipping and payment terms, if any

EFT account/payment information (see below)

Costs incurred under the current voucher or costs incurred to date (cumulative)

Signature of the Contractor’s authorized representative

Contractor’s Tax Identification Number (TIN)

23.1 Invoice Submission

The Contractor shall prepare invoices on a monthly basis and shall render an electronic copy original to the following address:

Peace Corps
Attn:  OGAP
Email: 



Invoice Certification

Upon receipt of the invoices, the Peace Corps will check the invoices for correctness and appropriateness of the charges and will ensure that chargeable items appearing on the invoices have been formally accepted by the Peace Corps.  In the event that the Peace Corps discovers any discrepancies in the invoice, the Peace Corps Contracting Officer and COTR will, in addition to following the requirements of the Prompt Payment Act, take steps necessary to resolve the discrepancies with the Contractor.

Invoice Payment

For the purposes of this subsection, “invoice payment” is a Government disbursement of moneys to the Contractor under this contract for products and/or services which are formally accepted by the Government.  Invoices are payable in accordance with the requirements of the Prompt Payment Act.  Payment will be considered as being made on the day of the electronic funds transfer is made.

Loss/Damages

The Peace Corps does not accept responsibility for any damage or loss of the Contractor’s supplies or property or that of the Contractor’s employees or subcontractors.

Rights to Intellectual and/or Creative Data (May 2003)

All Contractor’s rights or interests, including but not limited to, rights under copyright laws (federal otherwise) and copyright common law, in any and all deliverable items, collateral materials, or any other products created or provided under this contract shall hereby be assigned and transferred to the Peace Corps in this contract, including the right to modify same, to use same, and to authorize others to use same in their original or modified form for any purpose.

Use of Peace Corps Name and Logo (November 2008)

 The Contractor shall make no publicity announcements or issue other public relations or promotional materials mentioning the Contractor’s connection with Peace Corps without first consulting with the Contracting Officer.  Further the Contractor shall not use the Peace Corps name and/or logo in conjunction with, or proximity to, the Contractor’s logo, trademark, trade name or facsimile thereof (co-branding) without the advance written concurrence of the Contracting Officer.

























Contract Clauses



I. 1   52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEBRUARY 1998). – This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: 



52.202-1 DEFINITIONS (Jul 2004)

52.203-5 COVENANT AGAINST CONTIGENT FEES (Apr 1984)

52.203-7 ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010)

52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008)

52.204-10 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (JUL 2010)

52.209-2  PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS-REPRESENTATION (July 2009)

52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008)

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2011)

52.212-4  CONTRACT TERMS  CONDITIONS-COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2010)

52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)

52.232-1 PAYMENTS (Apr 1984)

52.232.36  PAYMENT BY THIRD PARTY (FEB 2010)

52.232-33  PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER – CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)

52.244-6 SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2010)

52.245-1  GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (AUG 2010)  



I.2 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2011)



An offeror shall complete annual representations and certifications electronically at . 



I. 3    52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (APRIL 2011)	

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 

__ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 

(2) 52.233-3, Protest after Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). 

(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006), with Alternate I (OCT 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). 

__ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010)(Pub.L.110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). 

__ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (JUN 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub.L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). 

__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (JUL 2010) (Pub.L. 109-282)(31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 

__ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (JUL 2010) (Pub.L. 111-5). 

__ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended,or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). 

__ (7) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (JAN 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). 

__ (8) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). 

__ (9) [Removed] 

_X_ (10) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (JUNE 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 1995) of 52.219-6. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2004) of 52.219-6. 

__ (11) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (JUNE 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). 

	__ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 1995) of 52.219-7.

__ (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2004) of 52.219-7. 

_X_ (12) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(2) and 

	(3)). 

_X_ (13) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (JAN 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).

 __ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 2001) of 52.219-9. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (OCT 2001) of 52.219-9. 

___(iv) Alternate III (JUL 2010) of 52.219-9. 

__ (14) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (DEC 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).

 __ (15) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages–Subcontracting Plan (JAN 1999) (15U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)}. 

__ (16) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business 

Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (JUNE 2003) of 52.219-23. 

__ (17) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (DEC 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). 

__ (18) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (OCT 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). 

__ (19) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (MAY 2004) (15 U.S.C 657 f). 

__ (20) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (APR 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). 

__ (21) 52.219-29 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (APR 2011). 

__ (22) 52.219-30 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (APR 2011). 

_X_ (23) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (JUNE 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

_X_ (24) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (JUL 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

_X  (25) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999). 

_X_ (26) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

_X_ (27) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

__ (28) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). 

__ (29) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

__ (30) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496) 

__ (31) 52.222-54,Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) 

__ (32) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (MAY 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (MAY 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (33) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). 

__ (34) (i) 52.233-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. 

__ (35) 52.223-18, Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (SEP 2010) (E.O. 13513). 

__ (36) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).

 __ (37) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (JUN 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 

108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (JAN 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (JAN 2004) of 52.225-3. 

__ (38) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (AUG 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). 

__ (39) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (40) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). 

__ (41) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). 

__ (42) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (FEB 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

 __ (43) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (OCT 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). 

X__ (44) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). 

_ _ (45) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (MAY 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). 

_X_ (46) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (FEB 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

 _X_ (47) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (AUG 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). 

__ (48) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (APR 2003) of 52.247-64. 

 (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (MAY 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

 __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) 

____(7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

____(8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (SEP 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). 



(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(i) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- 

(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). 

(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (DEC 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1,5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 



(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

	(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (October 2010) (29 U.S.C. 

793)

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) 

(E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. 

(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 

__ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). 

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 



(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. 

(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (February 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. 

(2) While not required, the Contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 



 (End of clause) 



I.4 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) 

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.



I.5 52.217-09 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract   ( 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 10 days provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least days 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years. 





Washington D.C.

Atlanta, GA

Boston, MA

Chicago, IL

Dallas, TX

Oakland, CA 

Minneapolis, MN

New York, NY

Arlington, VA

Seattle, WA



Albania	

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bangladesh

Belize

Benin

Bolivia

Botswana

Bulgaria

Burkina Faso

Cameroon

Cape Verde

Chad

China

Costa Rica

Dominican Republic

E. Caribbean

E. Timor

Ecuador

El Salvador

Fiji

Gambia	

Georgia	

Ghana

Guatemala

Guinea

Guyana	

Honduras

Jamaica	

Jordan

Kazakhstan

Kenya

Kiribati	Tabaonga

Kyrgyz Rep

Lesotho	

Macedonia

Madagascar

Malawi

Mali

Mauritania

Mexico

Micronesia

Moldova

Mongolia

Morocco

Mozambique

Namibia

Nicaragua

Niger

Panama

Paraguay

Peru

Philippines

Romania

Samoa

Senegal	

South Africa

Suriname

Swaziland

Tanzania

Thailand

Togo

Tonga

Turkmenistan

Uganda

Ukraine	

Vanuatu

Zambia



Deliverable

Performance Objective

Acceptable

Quality Level

(AQL)



Surveillance

Method



Performance

Standard

 

 

 





Operations Service Delivery



Messaging and Financial Systems applications should be maintained and operated per the terms of the contract and under the supervision of Peace Corps personnel as dictated by the needs of the service.

As dictated by the terms stated in the Contract with Peace Corps and as monitored by the members of the Operations and Infrastructure Division of Peace Corps.

Manual tracking, Ticketing system reporting and Status reporting

Delivery and acceptance by the Peace Corps COTR monthly assessment

Engineering Services Delivery

New Messaging and Financial Systems applications projects/tasks should be engineered and operationalized per the terms of the contract and under the  supervision of  Peace Corps personnel as dictated by the needs of the organization

Relevant documentation and deliverables as dictated by the SDLC.

Manual tracking, Status reporting and acceptance

Delivery and acceptance by the Peace Corps COTR monthly assessment

Invoice Discrepancies

Invoices submitted are accurate and complete to facilitate prompt payment

Only 3% of invoices submitted have discrepancies during performance period

Contract Expenditure Log 

Delivery and acceptance by the Peace Corps COTR monthly assessment

Contractor Support

Customer Service Assurance 

100%  service delivery objectives met and acceptance by Peace Corps 

Meet  service delivery objectives, status reporting and acceptance by Peace Corps 

Professionalism, Timely  Response, Courteous and Helpful Attitude

Transition Management

Transition Strategy; Transition Preparation; Inventory Validation

Transition Project Specific Plan; Transition Baseline Inventory; Transition Execution

Transition Manager Checklist

Continuity of Services Transitioned;  Delivery and acceptance by the Peace Corps COTR the first invoice being certified