DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
48th Contracting Squadron (USAFE) Bldg 977, Boston Drive RAF Lakenheath, Brandon, Suffolk, IP27 9PN

Combined Synopsis/Solicitation
IT Manager ­ Reference (F2P3V63150A902) SOLICITATION DATE: 26 July 2013 QUOTATIONS DUE: NLT noon BST, 26 August 2013 Purchasing Agency: 48th Contracting Squadron ­ 48 CONS/LGCB RAF Lakenheath, Brandon, Suffolk, United Kingdom IP27 9PN This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Subpart 12.6, supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotations are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This solicitation is issued as a request for quotation (RFQ) IAW FAR Part 12 and 13. Submit written quotations in reference to RFQ reference number F2P3V63150A902. FAR 52.232-18 -- Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government's obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause) This solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through FAC 2005-68 effective 26 June 2013, DPN 20130705 effective 5 July 2013, and AFAC 20130327 effective 27 Mar 2013. The Defense Priorities and Allocation System (DPAS) assigned rating is: none. Due to the overseas location of this solicitation, no set-aside will be used. The NAICS code for this requirement is 541519, Other Computer Related Services.

1 of 11

Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of a quotation, the quoter acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the U.S. Government database System for Award Management (SAM) prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation, and subsequently enrolled in Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) for purpose of invoicing/payment. Please note that WAWF is the only acceptable means of invoicing for payment. Quoters shall provide their DUNS number, CAGE/NCAGE code, and confirmation of their registration in SAM along with their quotation. If the quoter does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. A quoter within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866705-5711 or via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. A quoter located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for DUNS number. The quoter should indicate that it is a quoter for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. Quotation shall include a unit price and total price for the following bid schedule: QUOTATION SCHEDULE Period of Quantity Performance 1 Oct 2013 to 768 30 Sept 2014 1 Oct 2014 to 768 30 Sept 2015

Line Item Number 0001

Description RAF Lakenheath Education Services IT Manager RAF Lakenheath Education Services IT Manager  

Unit Hours

Unit Price

Total Price

1001

Hours

Prices shall be all-inclusive (i.e. all material, transportation, labor, etc.). Prices shall be quoted in USD ($) and quotations shall be valid for a minimum of 60 days.

Quotations are due to this office NLT 4:00pm British Summer Time (BST), 26 August 2013. Quotations shall be sent via e-mail to tara.ponte@us.af.mil and keaston.simmons@us.af.mil. For questions about this solicitation, please contact one of the following:  Primary point of contact: Contract Specialist: Tara Ponte Tel: 01638 52 2252 or e-mail: tara.ponte@us.af.mil Secondary point of contact: Contract Specialist: SSgt Keaston Simmons Tel: 01638 52 2235 or e-mail: keaston.simmons@us.af.mil



2 of 13

The following provisions and clauses apply to this solicitation and are included by reference: Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Provisions: 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration (Dec 2012) 52.217-5 Evaluation of Options (Jul 1990) 52.222-22 Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports (Feb 1999) Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clauses: 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Jan 2011) 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010) 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions ­ Commercial Items (Jun 2013) 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statues or Executive Orders (Jan 2013) (DEVIATION) X (b)(1)(ix) Alt. I (Aug 2007) 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999) 52.222-29 Notification of Visa Denial (June 2003) 52.223-18 Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) 52.232-1 Payments (Apr 1984) 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) 52.232-34 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) 52.233-1 Disputes (July 2002) 52.237-2 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (Apr 1984) 52.252-6 Authorized Deviations in Clauses (Apr 1984) Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations (DFARS): 252.203-7000 Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (Sep 2011) 252.203-7002 Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights (Jan 2009) 252.204-7004 Alternate A, System for Award Management (May 2013) 252.222-7002 Compliance with Local Labor Laws (Overseas) (Jun 1997) 252.225-7042 Authorization to Perform (Apr 2003) 252.229-7000 Invoices Exclusive of Taxes or Duties (Jun 1997) 252.229-7006 Value Added Tax Exclusion (United Kingdom) (Dec 2011) 252.229-7007 Verification of United States Receipt of Goods (Jun 1997) 252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (Jun 2012) 252.232-7008 Assignment of Claims (Overseas) (Jun 1997) 252.232-7010 Levies on Contract Payments (Dec 2006) 252.233-7001 Choice of Law (Overseas) (Jun 1997)

3 of 13

Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulations (AFFARS): 5352.223-9001 Health and Safety on Government Installations (Nov 2012) 5352.225-9004 Submission of Offers in Other than United States Currency (June 2006) 5352.242-9000 Contractor Access to Air Force Installations (Nov 2012) Addendum to FAR 52.212-1 ­ Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (Feb 2012) As prescribed in FAR 12.302(d), the following addendum is provided for solicitation provision FAR 52.212-1 and hereby amends any language therein: Submission of quotations. Submit quotations to the office specified in this solicitation on or before the date and time specified in this solicitation. At a minimum, quotations must show: (1) The solicitation number; (2) The name, address, e-mail address and telephone number of the quoter; (3) A technical description in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the attached SOW. This shall include a résumé, transcripts and certificates that show technical capability in the following areas: (i) A minimum of one (1) year experience in both hardware and software application support for small computers and servers; (a) Resumes shall outline knowledge of computer systems network management and system administration, data security administration, technical support, software installation and maintenance, data configuration management, web page design, and maintenance of local area networks; (ii) CompTIA A+ certified. (4) Price (shown by completing the quotation schedule shown on page 1 of this solicitation) and any discounts for prompt payment; (5) Quoter's DUNS number, CAGE/NCAGE code, and confirmation of registration in SAM and WAWF; (6) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3. This can be completed electronically at https://www.acquisition.gov; (7) Include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Quoters that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration; (8) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments (if any).

4 of 13

(End of Provision) Addendum to 52.212-2 -- Evaluation -- Commercial Items (Jan 1999) The Government intends to award a purchase order resulting from this RFQ to the quoter whose quotation conforms to the solicitation and is considered most advantageous to the Government. The following factors shall be used to evaluate quotations: (1) Technical Capability ­ Quoter will be deemed technically acceptable if all requirements in FAR 52.212-1 are met; (2) Price Quotation ­ The total price for each line item from the bid schedule found on page 1 of this solicitation will be added together to arrive at a final price. The quoter whose final price is the lowest will be deemed the "lowest price." The Government will evaluate the quoter's quotation with competitive quotations received from other companies in the industry. Basis of Award. The award will be made to the quoter whose quotation represents the best value to the Government. As allowed by FAR 13.106-2(b)(1), the Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA) selection process shall be applied. Award will be made to the quoter who is deemed responsible and responsive, and represents the best value to the government based on selection of the lowest evaluated price that is deemed technically acceptable. To be eligible for award, a quotation must meet all technical requirements, conform to all required terms and conditions, and provide all information required. The technical area will be evaluated on an acceptable or unacceptable basis. Only those quotations determined to be technically acceptable will be evaluated on price. If the quotation received is determined to be technically unacceptable, the quoter will be excluded from competition and will not be considered for award. (End of Provision) 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications ­ Commercial Items (Dec 2012), Alt 1 An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.

5 of 13

Forced or indentured child labor means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. Manufactured end product means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 10009999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. Place of manufacture means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

6 of 13

Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

7 of 13

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. Women-owned business concern means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. Women-owned small business concern means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States.

8 of 13

(b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a servicedisabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

9 of 13

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]. The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern.

10 of 13

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns

11 of 13

maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory or the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that --

12 of 13

(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act ­ Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of domestic end product. The terms commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item, component, domestic end product, end product, foreign end product, and United States are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Supplies. (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

13 of 13

(g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product, commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item, component, domestic end product, end product, foreign end product, Free Trade Agreement country, Free Trade Agreement country end product, Israeli end product, and United States are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act. (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanina, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act: Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act. The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of domestic end product. Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

14 of 13

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act: Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

15 of 13

(4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph(g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act: Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Trade Agreements. (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will

16 of 13

consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a

17 of 13

final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.

18 of 13

[_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [_] Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to nonGovernmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the

19 of 13

case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.] (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [_] TIN:_____________________.

20 of 13

[_] TIN has been applied for. [_] TIN is not required because: [_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government; (4) Type of organization. [_] Sole proprietorship; [_] Partnership; [_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [_] Foreign government; [_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [_] Other ____________________. (5) Common parent. [_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent: [_] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________________________ TIN ______________________________________ (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations--

21 of 13

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf ). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of Provision)

22 of 13

FAR 52.217-8 -- Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days. 52.217-9 -- Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days, provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 2 years and 6 months. FAR 52.252-1 -- Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The Vendor is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/. FAR 52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/. AFFARS 5352.201-9101 -- Ombudsman (Nov 2012) (a) An ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential offerors, and others for this acquisition. When requested, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the authority of the program manager, contracting officer, or source selection official. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman

23 of 13

may refer the interested party to another official who can resolve the concern. (b) Before consulting with an ombudsman, interested parties must first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution. Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines for any other processes (e.g., agency level bid protests, GAO bid protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions, contests of OMB Circular A-76 competition performance decisions). (c) If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, the interested party may contact the Center/MAJCOM/DRU or AFISRA ombudsmen: Primary: Ms Tara Peterson HQ USAFE/A7K, UNIT 3050, Box 10, APO AE 09094-0110 HQ USAFE/A7K, Flugplatz Ramstein, 66877 Ramstein Germany E-mail: tara.peterson@ramstein.af.mil Tel: (49)-6371-47-2209, Fax: (49)-6731-47-2025 Alternate: Ms Heidi Hoehn HQ USAFE/A7K, UNIT 3050, Box 10, APO AE 09094-0110 HQ USAFE/A7K, Flugplatz Ramstein, 66877 Ramstein Germany E-mail: heidi.hoehn@ramstein.af.mil Tel: (49)-6371-47-9330, Fax: (49)-6731-47-2025 Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations that cannot be resolved at the Center/MAJCOM/DRU or AFISRA level, may be brought by the interested party for further consideration to the Air Force ombudsman, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (ADAS) (Contracting), SAF/AQC, 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1060, phone number (571) 256-2397, facsimile number (571) 256-2431. (d) The ombudsman has no authority to render a decision that binds the agency. (e) Do not contact the ombudsman to request copies of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical requirements. Such inquiries shall be directed to the Contracting Officer. (End of clause) In accordance with FAR 13.004 -- Legal Effect of Quotations, the following information is provided in regards to quotations: A quotation is not an offer and, consequently, cannot be accepted by the Government to form a binding contract. Therefore, issuance by the Government of an order in response to a supplier's quotation does not establish a contract. The order is an offer by the Government to the supplier to buy certain supplies or services upon specified terms and conditions. A contract is established when the supplier accepts the offer.

24 of 13

When appropriate, the contracting officer may ask the supplier to indicate acceptance of an order by notification to the Government, preferably in writing. In other circumstances, the supplier may indicate acceptance by furnishing the supplies or services ordered or by proceeding with the work to the point where substantial performance has occurred. If the Government issues an order resulting from a quotation, the Government may (by written notice to the supplier, at any time before acceptance occurs) withdraw, amend, or cancel its offer. Attachment(s): Statement of Work

25 of 13

ATTACHMENT 1 | STATEMENT OF WORK STATEMENT OF WORK Non-Personal Services Contract for Information Technology Support
1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES: Non-personal services in support of U.S. Air force voluntary offduty education program for information technology support and assistance for RAF Lakenheath Education Center. 2. QUALIFICATIONS: A minimum of 2 years experience in both hardware and software application support for small computers and servers. Contractor will perform Client Support Administrator (CSA) and Functional Systems Administrator (FSA) duties and must therefore be CompTIA A+ certified as required by both Communication Squadrons. Resumes shall outline knowledge of computer systems network management and system administration, data security administration, technical support, software installation and maintenance, data configuration management, web page design, and maintenance of local area networks. Excellent customer service skills and verbal communication skills are essential. The contractor shall have a minimum of one year remaining at the current duty station (if they are DoD personnel or dependent). Resumes , transcripts & relevant certificates shall be submitted with proposal packages to the base contracting office. 3. WORK HOURS/DAYS: The government shall determine the number of hours required each week and shall notify the contractor with the intended schedule no later than seven workdays prior to the designated work unit. The contractor shall notify the government within two working days of acceptance or request a modification to the proposed schedule. Any changes to the agreed upon schedule thereafter shall be jointly agreed upon by the government and the contractor. Services identified in this Statement of Work shall be provided Monday thru Friday between the hours of 0800 ­ 1630 unless otherwise agreed with Education Services Officers (ESOs). The ESO or designated representative and the contractor shall mutually agree to specific work elements that must be performed to assist in the normal day-to-day technology operations. However, in the event of emergency (total system disabled, etc.) the contractor must respond within 1 hour from time of call/request by the ESO or designee. Units may be worked on federal holidays, when the office is closed or outside the normal work hours. It is estimated that 12 units will be required per week at the RAF Lakenheath Education Center. 4. GUIDELINES: All tasks shall be accomplished in accordance with applicable local base computer/technology guidelines and procedures. a. BASE NETWORK ACCESS: Access to military base network and e-mail accounts are necessary in the performance of duties. Contractor must be able to possess a valid Secret Security Clearance by 30 Nov 2013. If required (for substitutes etc.), the government shall initiate the necessary security clearance paperwork. b. Contractor personnel must have, or be qualified to obtain, a favorable National Agency Clearance (NAC) check in order to obtain a CAC (Common Access Card) card and LAN access. Cost for security clearances for CAC card will be paid for by Government. No more than two primary contract personnel and one substitute contractor will receive CACs during the lifetime of the contract. 5. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:

26 of 13

a. Reporting Requirements. Contractor personnel shall report to the Education Services Officer (ESO) or designee any information or circumstances of which they are aware may pose a threat to the security of DOD personnel, contractor personnel or resources. b. Physical Security. The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property and controlled forms provided for contractor use. At the end of each work period, all government facilities, equipment, and materials shall be secured. c. Key Control (IF APPLICABLE). The contractor shall establish and implement methods of making sure all keys issued to the contractor by the government are not lost or misplaced and are not used by unauthorized persons. The contractor shall not duplicate any keys issued by the government. i. The contractor shall immediately report to the Education Services Officer any occurrences of lost key(s). In the event the contractor loses the key(s), the government reserves the right to replace the lock(s) and or key(s) at the contractor's expense. The contractor shall not issue key(s) to unauthorized personnel.

ii.

iii.

d. Lock Combinations (IF APPLICABLE). The contractor shall control access to all government provided lock combinations to preclude unauthorized entry. The contractor is not authorized to record lock combinations without written approval of the ESO or designee. Records with written combinations to authorized secure storage containers, secure storage rooms, or certified vaults, shall be marked and safeguarded. 6. SPECIAL REQUIREMENT: Contractor must inform the ESO or designee of anticipated absence from a single scheduled unit at least 24 hours prior to scheduled unit except in emergency situations and provide a suitable replacement to cover contract requirements during absence. Non-emergency leave of 1 week or more must be scheduled with the ESO or designee at least two weeks in advance and may not exceed two weeks at a time with a maximum of 4 weeks in one year. Contractor must provide contact phone numbers so ESOs or his/her designee can make contact if emergencies arise for both technical issues and adverse weather conditions. 7. MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT: The government will provide all necessary equipment, supplies and materials necessary to fulfill the requirements of this contract. 8. SPECIFIC TASKS: a. Provide hardware and software system administration on all government computers, servers, fax machines, satellite receivers, switches, routers, printers, Smartboards, Projectors and other peripherals critical to proper function of base education center technology systems. b. Provide maintenance on education center web page. Update links, build pages, link appropriate documents and databases, manage layout and meet any other requirements specified by the ESO to ensure quality of web page and that it integrates with the Air Force Virtual Education Center web site.

27 of 13

c. Implement any new systems (software/hardware) as required by the ESO. Set up new computers and other information systems in a timely manner to support gradual improvement of the ESC facility. d. Provide all networking architecture recommendations and networking support to improve the ESC network as directed by the ESO. e. Establish procedures for safeguarding all critical data. Design back-up methodology to guarantee uninterrupted Education Service Center services to customers. f. Develop tracking system (including all required documentation) to monitor all information systems. Establish diagram of facility with associated database to track fixes and implementation of information systems. Provide recommendations to director of facility for future planning and improvements to existing information systems structure.

g.

h. Assist director in research and purchase of all information systems and components required to improve existing structure. i. Provide for proper information security on all systems. Educate personnel on proper security procedures to protect sensitive data and records. Assist office personnel in resolution of computer-related problems.

j.

k. Perform any other critical system support as requested by the ESO for successful operation of the Education Center technology. 9. PAYMENT: The contractor will submit his/her invoice on a monthly basis with completed work log to the Chief, Education Resources Section, Education Services Section, or his/her designee not later than three (3) work days after the end of each month. Payment will be made on a monthly basis using WideArea Workflow (WAWF) 10. RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS: The contractor is not required to provide service (except emergencies) on official US holidays. When a U.S. holiday falls on a Sunday, the following day is also a holiday, when a U.S. holiday falls on a Saturday; the preceding day is also a holiday. 11. CONTRACT TERMINATION: Services under this contract may be terminated for any breach of security or violation of requirements as outlined in Para 6 and the specific tasks as outlined in Para 9. Any requests for contract termination must be routed through the administering contracting office and ESOs at least 30 days prior to desired contract closure. 12. GLOSSARY OF TERMS: Commonly used military and education-related acronyms, abbreviations and definitions with which contractor must be familiar: ACSC ACT AD AEA AECP AFA Air Command and Staff College (required PME for AF Majors) ACT (undergraduate entrance exam) Active Duty Assistant Education Advisor Airman Enlisted Commissioning Program Air Force Academy (usually USAFA) or Air Force Association

28 of 13

AFAEMS AFIADL AFIT AFROTC ALS ATCO AWC BEPAC BESC/BESP BPA# BTES CCAF CLEP Course 1 Course 12 Course 14 Course 8 CSA CTC D&B# DANTES DE DL DSST ECE ECI ELA ERAU ESC ESS ET FSA FTAC GED GMAT GRE LEAD MAJCOM ACC AETC AFMC AFRC AFSOC AFSPC AMC ANG PACAF USAFE MAT MGIB NCOA

Air Force Automated Education Management System AF Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning Air Force Institute of Technology Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Airman Leadership School Alternate Test Control Officer Air War College (required PME for AF Lt Colonels) Base Education Plan and Advisory Committee Base Education Services Center/Base Education Services Program Blanket Purchase Agreement Number Base Training and Education Services Community College of the Air Force College Level Examination Program (test for credit) Airman Leadership School by correspondence SNCOA by computer assisted distance-learning program SNCOA by computer assisted distance-learning program SNCOA by correspondence Client Support Administrator Central Texas College (on-base college program) Dunn and Bradstreet Number (must obtain prior to registering as gov contractor) Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support Distance Education Distance Learning DANTES Subject Standardized Test (test for credit) Excelsior College Exams (formerly New York Regents exam program) Extension Course Institute (former name for AFIADL) Educational Leave of Absence (CONUS-only program) Embry Riddle Aeronautical University (on-base program) Education Services Center Education Services Specialist Education Technician Functional Systems Administrator First Term Airman Center Tests of General Education Development (high school equivalency exam) Graduate Management Admissions Test (specialized graduate entrance exam) Graduate Record Exam (only subject tests can be given on base) Leaders Encouraging Airman Development (for USAFA or AFA Prep School) Major Command (major divisions within the Air Force) Air Combat Command (HQ at Langley AFB, VA) Air Education and Training Command (HQ at Randolph AFB, TX) Air Force Material Command Air Force Reserve Command Air Force Special Operations Command Air Force Space Command (HQ at Peterson AFB, CO) Air Mobility Command Air National Guard Pacific Air Forces (HQ at Hickam AFB, HA) United States Air Forces Europe (HQ at Ramstein AFB, GE) Miller Analogies Test (graduate entrance exam) Montgomery GI Bill (covers most AD personnel unless they declined it) Noncommissioned Officers Academy

29 of 13

NPSC OTS OU PCA PCS PME POC-ERP PRAXIS QH SAT SH SII SNCOA SOAR SOC SOS SOW TA Cap TA TCO TDY TE TTT UMUC UoP USAFA VA VEAP

Non-Personal Services Contract (covers each contract position) Officer Training School (requires completed 4 year degree) University of Oklahoma (on-base graduate program) Permanent Change of Assignment (changing jobs but remaining at current base) Permanent Change of Station (leaving current base) Professional Military Education Professional Officer Course-Early Release Program National Teacher Certification Exam (Includes general and subject tests) Quarter Hours Scholastic Aptitude Test (undergraduate entrance exam) Semester Hours Strong Interest Inventory Senior Noncommissioned Officers Academy Scholarships for Outstanding Airmen to ROTC Servicemen's' Opportunity College (All on base schools are SOC members) Squadron Officers School (required PME for AF Captains) Statement of Work (position description and responsibilities) Annual per person limit of $4500 (set by Congress for all Services) Tuition Assistance (military) Test Control Officer Temporary Duty (involves official orders sending the person elsewhere) Test Examiner Troops to Teachers program (see DANTES web site) University of Maryland University College (on-base program) University of Phoenix (on-base graduate program) United States Air Force Academy Veterans Administration Veterans Educational Assistance Program (no longer open to new depositors)

30 of 13

