
                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK

                                                                NB686020-12-04142



PURPOSE:



      The Quantum Calorimeter Project (QCP) in the Quantum Devices Group of NIST Division 686 in the  Physical  Measurement  Laboratory  conducts
research on cryogenic sensors and amplifiers.  The QCP is presently developing  cryogenic  X-ray  spectrometers  for  use  at  the  NIST  Boulder
laboratories and elsewhere.  These spectrometers provide a unique  combination  of  spectral  resolving  power  and  quantum  efficiency.   These
spectrometers also generate very high volumes of output data that must be transferred from custom multiplexing electronics into computer  memory.
  NIST is currently working to increase the data rates that can be transferred.
      The NIST PCIe Data-handling Card transfers data from the NIST multiplexing crate electronics using up to 16 data fibers into  memory  on  a
Linux PC. The vendor is to deliver specialized firmware to serialize and transfer the specified data over a PCIe x8 bus to a PC host and a  Linux
driver to make this data available to user applications.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS:

   I. Background:
      a. NIST Multiplexed Electronics
           The NIST multiplexing electronics implements a number of different multiplexing schemes for the readout of cryogenic sensors.  From  a
      data stream standpoint, each column of the multiplexed readout transfers 32 bits of  data  for  every  measurement.  The  measurements  are
      repeated at set intervals and synchronized by a line synchronization signal (Lsync). The period of this line  synchronization  (LP)  is  an
      integer number of data clock cycles. The current data clock will run at 50, 100, and 200 MHz depending on the configuration of the  system.
      The multiplexing scheme is designed so a user-defined number of measurements, one for each row, are performed per frame.  Each  measurement
      consists of two numbers that need to be recorded; a 14-bit feedback signal and a 16-bit error signal. When all the measurements  have  been
      performed, a new frame starts and repeats the same sequence of measurements. This data is packaged with two extra bits, a frame  bit  which
      tells the software when a new frame has started, and an over-range bit which can be used by the user. The 32-bit data from each  column  is
      sent to the PCI express card on a separate fiber every Lysnc. Two additional fibers contain the data clock and Lsync signals.
      b. Development Platform
           The Arria II GX development board from Altera is the foundation for the development of the PCIe  x8  multiplexed  data-handling  card.
      NIST has built a daughter card to receive the signals from the optical fibers and route them as LVDS signals to the HSMC connector  on  the
      development board. The data will be transferred to suitable PC computer running a modern Linux distribution. Testing of  the  firmware  and
      driver will occur using a PC with Intel core i5 2500k on an Asus p8z68-v motherboard, with 8 GB of RAM or an equivalent system. For writing
      data to disk, there will be 1TB SATA 6.0 GB/s drive. The operating system will be  the  Ubuntu  12.04  distribution  of  Linux  running  an
      appropriate stable Linux kernel.
      c. Input Data Format
           The input to the FPGA consists of 16 data channels (a data channel corresponds to the data from a given fiber)  along  with  the  data
      clock and Lsync signals. The data clock runs at 50, 100 and 200 MHz depending on the system configuration. The LP can range from  32  clock
      cycles up to 1023 clock cycles.
           Each data channel will send 32 bits of data synchronous with the clock after every Lsync. Since the minimum LP  is  32  clock  cycles,
      there will always be enough clock cycles to send the data. The format of the data:
                                            feedback[13..0], over-range bit , frame bit , error[15..0]
           The maximum data rate occurs for the fastest clock, 200 MHz, and the shortest LP, 32 clock cycles, giving a total  data  rate  of  200
      Mbits/s per channel. Assuming all 16 data channels are active, the total maximum data transfer rate will be 400 MB/s.
  II. Vendor Deliverables
      a. Firmware for data serialization and transfer
           The firmware provided by the vendor will take data in the specified format up to the specified maximum data rate and  transfer  it  to
      the PC.
           The user software will provide to the driver/firmware a mask that will list which channels are active. The mask will translate to a 16-
      bit number where 1’s indicate active channels. The firmware should expect data on every channel that is active.  The  data  is  synchronous
      with the data clock but can be delayed from the Lysnc by hardware data delay (DD). The user software will provide  to  the  driver/firmware
      the hardware delay in number of data clock cycles [0-31].
           After an Lsync, the firmware should wait for the hardware delay before latching the data from the data channels. Then  the  data  will
     arrive on each active data channel in the next 32 clock cycles. The latching of the 32 bits should take precedence  over  any  new  delayed
     Lsync (Lsync delayed by DD) that arrives before the data has been received. The data should be serialized starting from the  lowest  active
     channel in the mask to the highest active channel in the mask.
                                                                      [pic]
Figure 1: Timing diagram for 2 example cases; LP=34, DD=3 and a mask of 0x0009 and LP=39, DD=3 and a mask of 0x0108

      b. Driver: Interface to User Applications on PC
           A Linux driver will allow access to the data transferred to the PC. The driver will assume that user software requires access  to  the
      data stream for many days at a time without loss of any data. If the data is only accessible in discrete amounts, the size of these amounts
      will be a parameter that is controlled by the user without reinstalling the driver. As much of the CPU as possible should be available  for
      data processing by user application.  Therefore, architectures (i.e. direct IO) that avoid large amounts of copying data  into  user  space
      are preferred. The driver will not require large amounts of contiguous memory at initialization (i.e. scatter gather DMA is  an  attractive
      architecture). The preferred Linux driver interface is an IEEE POSIX interface. The firmware or driver will allow synchronization  so  that
      the data available to the user starts with the first row (frame bit row). However the user should be able to disable this feature to stream
      test patterns that do not have a frame bit.
      c. Evaluation and Demonstration
         Additional firmware and software are necessary to test and verify the primary deliverables and to provide examples of how to access  the
      data in user applications.
            i. Data simulator
                The data simulator will provide firmware that simulates the data stream that comes from the NIST  multiplexing  electronics.  The
           data simulator will be used to check that the firmware and driver meet the required specifications. It will also be  used  to  aid  in
           debugging user software. A bit passed to the driver / firmware will switch the inputs from the data simulator to the pins that connect
           to the data channels so that the user can switch between simulated data mode and actual data without reprogramming the FPGA.
                The user will specify a data clock frequency (50, 100, and 200 MHz) a valid LP (32-1204) and a valid DD  (0-31).  The  user  will
           also specify which channels will be sent data using a mask and the number of Lsyncs in a frame (# of rows to multiplex).
                The data simulator will increment the simulated error signal, starting from a zero index. The error signal is  a  16  bit  signed
           integer number.  The same number will be sent at all of the Lsyncs during a frame. Once the frame is done the counter will  increment.
           For the first Lsync of the next frame, the frame bit will be set high. When the counters reach their maximum value they will wrap back
           to zero. The 14 bits that are normally the feedback signal will be used to label the data channel and number of Lsyncs past the  frame
           bit, aka the row index. The data simulator will leave the over-range bit low at all times.
           ii. Performance Evaluation Software
                Evaluation of the performance of the firmware and driver will be accomplished by software running on the PC.  Software  will  be
           provided by the vendor that accesses the data in user space and verifies the accuracy and data transfer rate of  the  simulated  data
           stream.
          iii. User application demonstration
                Software will be provided by the vendor that demonstrates how the user applications will achieve sustained access  to  the  data
           made available in user space by the driver.
      d. Dissemination of Firmware and Software
         In order to disseminate systems to scientific collaborators, we require that the following conditions,  or  less  stringent  conditions,
      apply to the dissemination of the firmware and software.
            i. Firmware
                NIST is able to program additional FPGA devices and disseminate the FPGA devices at no additional cost per FPGA. The licenses to
           use the FPGA cores are perpetual.  Receipt of the full firmware source is not required but preference will be given to proposals that
           provide access to NIST-specific data handling modules such as data serialization.
           ii. Driver Binaries
                NIST is able to program and disseminate computers with executable object files for the driver at no additional cost per machine.
           This does not include the driver source code. The licenses to use the executable driver are perpetual.
          iii. Driver Source Code
                 NIST is able to modify, compile, assemble, and link the driver source code  to  produce  executable  object  files  and  program
           computers with these files. NIST will not distribute the driver source code. The licenses to use  the  driver  source  code  will  be
           perpetual.
           iv. User application demonstration
                 NIST is able to disseminate the user application demonstration code to customers as examples of how to interface to the  driver.
           The license to use and disseminate the user application demonstration will be perpetual.
      e. Options
            i. Yearly Maintenance and Support Contract




