
STATEMENT OF WORK
                                                        For Conversion of COGNOS reports,
                                                          cubes and database procedures
                                                          Type Task:  Time and Materials
                                                              DATE: 17 February 2009



Work is to be accomplished for the US Coast Guard, Aviation Logistics Center, Information Services Division

1.0  INTRODUCTION

1.1 Organization.

1.1.1  Identification.  U.S. Coast Guard
                     Aviation Logistics Center (ALC)
                     Information Services Division (ISD)
                     1664 Weeksville Road
                     Elizabeth City, North Carolina 27909

1.1.2  Mission.  The mission of ISD systems is to support the USCG with accounting, procurement, engineering, mission operations, supply and
asset maintenance software support.  ISD systems collect, analyze, model, and disseminate data and related products to customers in real-time.

1.2     Project Background and Objectives.

1.2.1  Background.  The Electronic Asset Logbook (EAL) is a web based application accessed thru a COGNOS portal. EAL data is manipulated to run
reports and develop cubes for analytical use. COGNOS is being upgraded from 7.3 to 8.4 because 7.3 will no longer be supported. The database
scripts are being ported from Ingres to Oracle because Oracle is designed to natively connect to COGNOS 8.4 and Ingres does not have this
important design feature.

1.2.2  Objectives.  The objective is for the contractor to perform COGNOS report and cube conversion and db script port. The reports shall be
consolidated and optimized for best performance except where the nature of the report is such that the LOE would be greater than the LOE for
developing a database procedure. Such procedure will be created in lieu of using Impromptu to develop the report. Anytime a report says
aircraft, aviation, or flight it must be changed to Asset, unit or mission. All SSN shall be removed from reports and replace with employee id.
Any MDL (Maintenance Due List) that were split out into multiple reports and database procedures shall be consolidated back into one set of
prompts for multiple reports.  Analysts shall report directly to the ISD Applications Branch Chief and Decision Support team lead.

1.3 Performance.  Results are to be delivered to the ISD Applications Branch Chief.  Certification of satisfactory services is performed by the
Government.  The certification of these services is contingent upon the contractor's compliance with the term/conditions of the prospective
contract, this document, and all amendments.

2.0 TECHNICAL SERVICE REQUIRED.

2.1 Task Description.   This project is to be performed as a single Work Request task order.

   1. Scope of Work.  Convert COGNOS reports and Cubes and port database scripts form Ingres to Oracle.

2.1.2.  Statement of Work.

Task Profile:
   1. Conversion of 308 COGNOS reports from 7.3 to 8.4
   2. Conversion of 61 Cubes from 7.3 to 8.4
   3. Porting of db scripts from Ingres to Oracle

   Government Furnished Information (GFI).  The contractor shall review and understand the ALMIS business process and consult with Decision
      Support Team application developers on work flow and system logic. The contractor will be given access to the old COGNOS 7.3 reports and
      IQD catalog as well as user account access. Due to security concerns concerning the sensitive nature of the data, account access is
      extremely difficult to grant to foreign nationals. The associated Government Furnished Information specified in the contract will be made
      available to the contractor as needed.

2.2  Deliverables.

The final deliverable will be converted Reports, Cubes, and database procedures in written and electronic form.

Only the Chief, Software Support Branch or Chief, Software Development Section have the authority to inspect and accept deliverables.

The contractor shall be responsible for delivering all end items specified in this statement of work.

2.2.1  Criteria for Acceptance.

All deliverables shall meet with best commercial practices. The contractor shall incorporate the comments/corrections from each deliverable, as
applicable, into the submission of the final document(s).

2.3  Expertise.  The contractor is responsible for providing personnel with expertise in the following areas.

   1. ADP/Managerial Skills.  All contractor personnel assigned to this task shall have sufficient experience to perform their assigned duties at
      industry standards of timeliness, professional knowledge, and customer relations.

2.3.2  Software/Languages.

    a.  Mid level experience with Oracle (SQL) required.

    b.  Senior level experience with COGNOS 8 is required.


2.4 Unique Services.

2.4.1  Travel and Per Diem.  None

2.4.2  Contractor Furnished Facilities.  None

The contractor shall provide all supervision of contractor personnel and perform all contractor related administrative functions.  All task
related requests of the contractor shall be communicated to the Chief, Software Support Branch or the Software Development Section Chief.

3.0  GOVERNMENT FURNISHED RESOURCES

The contractor shall identify in the task proposal, the type, amount and time frame for any required Government resources, including those
listed below.  The following resources will be provided by the Government.

3.1  Facilities, Supplies and Services.

    a.  While the contractor is at ALC, the Government will supply necessary office space, computer hardware and operating system, office
automation equipment, and necessary software licenses as determined by ISD.

    b.  The contractor is to specifically identify in the task proposal the type, amount, and time-frames for any required Government resources,
including those listed above.

    c.  Full-time on-site services are not required.  Document reviews may be performed off-site at no additional expense to the Government.
Contractor is required to be present at ALC for the testing of the ALMIS system.

3.2  Information Services.  None are anticipated.

3.3  Documentation.  The Government will make available copies of existing documentation as required.  Any additional related documentation will
be made available, if possible.

4.0  ADMINISTRATIVE CONSIDERATIONS.

4.1  Points of Contact.

4.1.1  COTR for this effort is : Will be determined at the time of award.

4.1.2 Contracting Officer:

       Ms. Judith A. Knotts
       USCG  ALC Aviation Logistics Division
       1664 Weeksville Road
       Elizabeth City, NC 27909
       Phone:  (252)384-7181

4.2 Duration of Task.

4.2.1  Period of Performance.  The performance of this task shall commence no later than 30 days after award.  The Government reserves the right
to terminate the task at any time, for reasons of its own convenience, without payment of any unperformed hours remaining on the contract.  The
work must be completed NLT 30 January 2010.

4.3  Security and Privacy.

4.3.1  Privacy Act.  Information included in this task is protected by the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974; therefore, all personnel
assigned to this task shall take the proper precautions to protect the information from disclosure.

5.0  SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS

5.1  General/Miscellaneous.  All software, documentation, and development tools used by the contractor become sole property of the United States
Government.  The contractor retains no proprietary rights to these materials, regardless of whether the Government characterizes them as
accepted or rejected.

5.2 Unique Reporting Requirements.  The contractor shall deliver final versions of any documents to the Government.  The COTR or Alternate will
provide a primary point of contact for use in clarifying requirements, obtaining detailed information, or voicing any concerns.

