Pre-proposal Conference Instructions – CNIC-Fleet & Family Readiness Support Service Center, Millington, TN 38055



A pre-proposal conference for Millington Naval Support Activity (NSA) will be held as follows:





The Pre-Proposal Conference will be conducted by the CNIC - Millington NSA, Fleet & Family Readiness Support Service Center, Facility & Acquisition Branch (N944), Millington, TN. 



REGISTRATION:  

Prospective offerors are encouraged to participate in this conference call.  Interested parties must register with John Wolfslau by e-mail at  NLT Tuesday, 16 August 2011 at 1:00pm CST.   Requests shall provide the following information for representatives attending: Name, company name, e-mail address, phone number.



This office will issue an electronic mail announcing the date, time, telephone number and a password for the conference call. Participants must be registered with the Contract Specialist for the conference to gain access to the conference call.





Prospective offerors are advised that the pre-proposal conference will be held solely for the purpose of explaining the specifications and terms and conditions of this solicitation.  Any changes to the solicitation will only be provided by written amendments. If an amendment is issued, normal procedures relating to the acknowledgement and receipt of any such amendment shall be applicable.  In no event will failure to attend the pre-proposal conference constitute grounds for a claim after award of the contract.

         









PRE-PROPOSAL CONFERENCE

Date:          

Friday, 26 August 2011

Time:

Conference: 9:00 AM – 12:00 PM (PST) (if necessary)

Registration/Conference Location:

Telephonic Call-In, Conference Line Millington, TN 38055



PART I,  SECTION B:  SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS                                           



a.  The  Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Fleet & Family Readiness Service Center, on behalf of the Navy Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Program, a Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI), has a requirement  provide the supplies and services necessary to operate and maintain electronic bingo game systems at a wide variety of MWR facilities located worldwide on Navy installations within twelve CNIC Regions defined herein.   



b.  This Request for Proposal (RFP) contemplates multiple awards necessary to establish of one revenue generating, indefinite delivery, requirements contract per CNIC Region.  



c.   Proposals must separately identify for each CLIN the CNIC Region or Regions proposed upon.  Offerors are free to propose on any one or more of the CNIC Regions for each CLIN.  Offerors also are free to propose the same or a different revenue-sharing fee for each CNIC Region for which they wish to submit a proposal. 

NSP – not separately priced

BASE PERIOD 	     (TBD upon award of Contract – 30SEPTEMBER 2014)

OPTION YEAR ONE 		(1OCTOBER 2014 – 30SEPTEMBER 2015)

OPTION YEAR TWO 		(1OCTOBER 2015 – 30SEPTEMBER 2016)






			  




SECTION C – DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS

STATEMENT OF WORK





1.  DEFINITIONS. Various terms used in this RFP are defined, as follows:



a.  Bingo. Bingo as defined by Navy MWR means “The game of chance (whether or not electronic, computer, or involving other technologic aids used in connection therewith) which is played for prizes, including monetary prizes, in which the holder of a  game card covers  numbers or designations when objects, similarly numbered or designated, are drawn or electronically determined, and with game cards bearing numbers or other designations in which the game is won by the first person covering a  designated arrangement(s) of numbers or pattern(s)  on the game card. 



b.  CNIC Region.  Note: for the purposes of this contract, CNIC Joint Region Marianas (Guam) has been combined with Hawaii Region; CNIC Regional Coordinator Singapore has been combined with Region Japan; and CNIC Region Europe, Africa and Southwest Asia (EURAFSWA) is referred to as Region Europe.   



(1).  Mid-Atlantic (to include Navy installations in Maine, New Hampshire, Connecticut, 

	New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, and West 

                             	Virginia) 

           (2). SouthEast    	(to include installations in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, 

   	Texas, Louisiana, and Cuba) 

(3). MidWest        	(to include installations in Illinois, Indiana, and Tennessee) 

(4). SouthWest     	(to include installations in California and Nevada)  

(5). NorthWest     	(to include installations in Washington and Oregon)  

(6). Hawaii            	(to include installations in Hawaii and Guam) 

(7). Japan              	(to include installations in Japan, Okinawa, Diego Garcia, Singapore, 

                            	and Australia)

(8). Europe            (to include installations in Spain, Italy, Greece, Bahrain, Africa)

           (9).NDW              	(Naval District Washington, to include installations in Washington, DC, Maryland, and Dahlgren, VA)



c.  Multiple Award contract.    of separate ()  to two or more  

offerors for the  item, where the award of a  contract would be impractical or impossible.   



d.  MWR Facility.   The number and type of MWR facilities located at a particular Navy installation varies from very few to as many as six or more at large bases/ports. It is anticipated that each Navy installation may consider making electronic bingo equipment available at locations such as:  bowling centers, Enlisted clubs, Chief Petty Officer clubs, Officer clubs, Navy Gateway Inns & Suites, marinas, recreation areas, and others.



e.  Navy Installation. A Navy base locations within a CNIC Region 



f.  NSP – not separately priced



g.  Requirements contract.  A requirements contract is an indefinite delivery type contract that commits the NAFI to no specific quantity, but commits the NAFI to exclusive use of the contractor as the provider or supplier for the needs outlined in the contract for the term of the contract.  Actual needs are set forth in delivery orders that specify the amount, location and time of delivery or.



h.  Revenue Sharing Fee.  Revenue collected to recover costs and operational expenses  

incurred by the MWR and Contractor. The contract offers a MWR-Contractor split of 

earnings after payout of winnings





2.  TASK/TITLE:  This is a non-personal services contract to provide Electronically Linked Bingo Systems at a wide variety of MWR facilities located worldwide on Navy installations within CNIC Regions.  This contract will be a centrally managed by the Facilities & Acquisition Branch of the Fleet & Family Readiness Service Center, Millington, TN.



3.  BACKGROUND: Electronic Bingo has been offered at Navy MWR facilities for many years. In order to ensure uniformity and controls in game operations and that the electronic bingo game in play does not constitute prohibited gambling, a centrally managed contract will ensure all MWR facilities are operating electronic bingo within the Navy MWR definition of the game of bingo. The CNIC Regions and Navy Installations will determine which MWR facilities participate in electronic bingo within each CNIC Region. 



4.  OBJECTIVES:  Offer electronic bingo in multiple MWR facilities aboard Navy installations using electronic ball selection to conduct the game of bingo; and simultaneously network games in play to multiple MWR facilities within the Navy installation and to multiple Navy installations within a defined CNIC region. One contract award per CNIC Region is contemplated to the Offeror whose proposal is most advantageous to Navy MWR, price and other factors considered.  This may result in multiple awards under this RFP, but may also result in a single award encompassing more than one CNIC Region. It is anticipated, particularly at large Navy installations, with numerous MWR facilities, that numerous active electronic bingo games may be in play at any one time.



5.  GOVERNMENT ESTIMATE:  It is estimated this contract will generate Navy-wide gross revenue $10 M, and net revenue (after winnings and operating expenses) of $2M per year.  











6.  TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:  Provide an electronic bingo system to include the following:



Game minimum of two players.

Each game shall be identified by a number for audit purposes and provide the following: 

the number of players, 

the amount paid into each game by the participants of the game, 

the amount paid to the winner of each game

For payments of winners playing a “game within a game”, the listing shall be game number with a letter designating which “game with a game” (I.e. Game 4715 120 players, $360 Total Paid In, Game 4715A Four corners -$25 Winner T. Jones, Dahlgren, Game 4715B Cover All - $100 Winner J Smith, Anacostia Bolling.



Provide a comprehensive audit trail at the facility level, installation level, and regional level.

The frequency of games may be limited by the region.

The games may have multiple winners (“Game within a Game”) with an award for the first person to achieve an easier pattern (IE: four corners) and another award for the first person covering all numbers. 

The system shall operate to return a minimum of 80-90 percent of all fees back to the participants as awards. 

The system shall Link geographically isolated participants in a network to allow simultaneous participation (Players in a facility are linked to a central facility server; facilities  networked to an installation server; and installations networked to a central region server). The server may be virtual.

Audit paths shall be clearly marked and performance levels monitored at every level. At the facility level, the reports shall show the number of units used, the fees charged for the participation, the awards paid from the participants during the reported period, the games played during reported period.

The contractor shall coordinate with the COR to decide on the number of units to place in each facility. The COR shall have final approval on the number of units.

The contractor shall provide adequate operator training (virtual or manual) to each activity to ensure they are capable of operating the games as recommended.



7.  QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA).  The Contractor shall administer a quality assurance program and shall provide examples of its successful application (e.g., satisfied customer comments/recommendations) upon request.



 

     8.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS: 



a.  Daily Activity Report: listing the games played (designated by consecutive number), the number of players paying and participating in the location, the winner(s) of each game, the amount won in each game, the amount of residual income from each game. The contractor supplied point of sale system will also generate an Activity Monthly Reconciliation Report from each MWR activity, combining into an Installation Monthly Reconciliation Report for each Navy installation, and the sum of all Navy installations shall build into a CNIC Region Monthly Reconciliation Report, compiling the same data reported from the Daily Activity Reports. Each report shall be forwarded via email to the Contractor and to the COR each month..  This report will be the basis for reconciliation of the Cost Sharing Fee revenue, which shall be submitted within thirty (30) calendar days following the last day of the previous month, at no cost to the MWR activity.  The Reconciliation Report and Cost Sharing Revenue will be subject to periodic review by the Contracting Officer (or their designee) and/or the U.S. Navy Audit Agency.



b.  Quarterly Progress Report (QPR):  The contractor shall ensure that a QPR is submitted to the COR outlining the expenditures, billings, progress, status, and any problems/issues encountered in the performance of the contract requirements.







PART I, SECTION E – INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE





  E-1  INSPECTION OF SERVICES



The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the NAFI covering the services under this contract.  Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the NAFI during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires.



The NAFI has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.



 If the NAFI performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties.



If any of the services do not conform to contract requirements, the NAFI may –

 

Require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements; and 



Require the contractor to respond in written form, how they anticipate correcting the reduced value of the services performed.



If the Contractor fails to promptly take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirement, the NAFI may terminate the contract for default.



 (End of clause)







PART I, SECTION F – DELIVERIES





F-1 DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



Contract Period. The term of this contract is for a Three Year Base Period with Two (2) One-Year Option Periods.



Transition. At the end of any contract period, if the option period is not exercised or all option periods have been exercised, Contractor may be requested to honor the terms of the contract up to six (6) months after contract ending date at the request of the Contracting Officer under the Extension of Services clause (Section I).  The Revenue Sharing Formula is still required during the transition period. 



F-2 DELIVERABLES:

Each designated facility shall have hand held electronic bingo cards in a quantity determined by the contractor and the COR.

Each facility shall have a point of sale system with cash drawer, sales terminal, sales software and operating software to play the game of bingo.

Each facility shall be networked to a server provided by the contractor maintaining the usage information for the facility, the installation, and the region.

The hardware shall be kept clean by the MWR Facility in accordance with the instructions of the contractor.

The hardware and software shall be maintained by the contractor. 

Contractor shall respond to calls for assistance within 24 hours and complete action for repair or replacement of defective equipment within twenty-four hours. 

The sales shall be conducted by the MWR Facility, fees will be collected and prizes disbursed by MWR.





PART I, SECTION G – CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION



G.1 INVOICES:



Monthly invoices will be paid by the respective regional or installation’s finance office as indicated on individual Delivery Orders.









G.2 PAYMENT FOR SERVICES 



The NAFI will collect all game fees directly from the patrons. The contractor shall invoice each region monthly based on the amounts collected minus prize payouts and amounts accumulated for progressive prize payouts. 

 

G.3  USE OF CONTRACT BY OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES (NOV 09)



a. Federal statute and DoD procurement policy encourage DoD NAFIs to enter into contracts or other agreements with other Federal Government entities, where it is advantageous to do so. It is solely within the discretion of each entity to decide whether or not to participate.



b. This is a non-appropriated fund (NAF) contract.



c. The prices, costs, rates, commissions/fees, terms, conditions, and any other contract provision are non-negotiable absent modification, change, or amendment by an authorized Contracting Officer of the NAFI that issued this contract.



d. Any dispute and/or claim shall be submitted to the NAF Contracting Officer that issued this contract for any required adjudication. Any issue between an ordering entity (other than the NAFI that issued this contract) and the Contractor, which cannot be resolved without formal action by the Contracting Officer (e.g., delivery/task order, modification, final decision letter, termination action, etc.), will be referred to the Contracting Officer of the NAFI that issued this contract for action. Any issue that appears to require formal contract action, and/or is a potential dispute or claim, will be brought to the attention of the Contracting Officer of the NAFI that issued this contract.



e. The Contractor shall perform the contract requirements in accordance with this Contract regardless of which entity places an order against this contract. The terms and conditions of this contract shall apply to all performance under this contract, without regard to ordering entity, delivery, or performance site, location, or facility.



f.  If the Contractor cannot fulfill a delivery/task order, regardless of reason, the Contractor shall immediately advise the ordering entity. Generally, such notice shall be provided within one business day of the date and time the Contractor is aware (or should have been aware) the order could not be fulfilled.



g. The sites, locations, or facilities identified herein as being required in this contract are not all inclusive of the number of sites, locations, or facilities that may be added in the future; however, this contract does not create a right of first refusal and does not require, guarantee, or imply the addition of any sites, locations, or facilities to this contract. Additional sites, locations, or facilities identified in a delivery/task order that are not listed in the contract will be added to the contract by Contract Modification by an authorized Contracting Officer of the NAFI that issued this contract.

h. No additional quantities are guaranteed or implied as a result of this clause.



i. Other Federal entities authorized to place delivery/task orders against this contract include:

U.S. Army Family and Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (FMWRC)

Air Force Non-appropriated Fund Purchasing Office (AFNAFPO)

U.S. Marine Corps Personal and Family Readiness Division (MR) and

Marine Corps Community Services (MCCS)

Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Fleet and Family Readiness (F&FR)



j. More favorable prices, costs, rates, commissions, fees, terms, and conditions than reflected in this contract may be offered by the Contractor to the various ordering entities and/or negotiated by the ordering entities based upon economic factors that support such mutually agreed to arrangements, provided that:

(1) Any such agreement is made in writing.

(2) A complete copy of any such agreement is given to the Contracting Officer of the NAFI that issued the contract, prior to performance.



k. The NAFI that issued this contract is not responsible or liable for payment related to delivery/task orders issued by another entity. The entity that issues a delivery/task order is solely responsible for payment in accordance with applicable Federal laws. Each delivery/task order issued will include:

(1) Contract number against which order is placed.

(2) Location where delivery/performance will take place and required delivery/performance date(s).

(3) Complete contact information for both the ordering entity and any other POC the Contractor may need to complete the order.

(4) Invoicing and payment instructions and/or procedures for remitting commission/license fee payments to the ordering entity.



l. On a quarterly basis (15 Jan, 15 Apr, 15 Jul, 15 Oct), unless a different reporting requirement is specified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer with a written report recapping all performance for all entities that have placed orders during the preceding quarter. (UCOFE)







PART I, SECTION H –SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS





H-1. APPOINTMENT OF CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE



(a)  The Contracting Officer hereby designates the following individual as Contracting Officer’s Representative(s) (COR) for this contract:



Ron Hodgen

CNIC Bingo Program Manager

716 Sicard Street SE, Suite 1000

Washington DC, 20374-5802

Tel:		 202 433 4257

E-mail: 	ron.hodgen@navy.mil

		 



(b)  The COR will act as the Contracting Officer’s representative for technical matters, providing technical direction and discussion as necessary with respect to the specification or performance work statement, and monitoring the progress and quality of contractor performance.  The COR is not an Administrative Contracting Officer and does not have authority to take any action, either directly or indirectly, that would change the pricing, quantity, quality, place of performance, delivery schedule, or any other terms and conditions of the contract, or to direct the accomplishment of effort which goes beyond the scope of the performance work statement in the contract.



(c)  It is emphasized that only a Contracting officer has the authority to modify the terms of the contract, therefore, in no event will any understanding, agreement, modification, change order, or other matter deviating from the terms of the basic contract between the contractor and any other person be effective or binding on the Government.  When/if, in the opinion of the contractor, an effort outside the existing scope of the contract is requested, the contractor shall promptly notify the contracting officer in writing.  No action shall be taken by the contractor under such direction unless the contracting officer has issued a contractual change or otherwise resolved the issue.



H.2  OPEN SEASON PROCEDURES 



If the Navy CNIC, Facilities and Acquisition Branch (N944) determines that it would be in the Government's best interest to open a new solicitation to add new contractors to the Contract, the Contracting Officer may do so at any time provided that:



(a)  The solicitation is issued under then-applicable NAFI procurement procedures;



(b)  The solicitation identifies the total approximate number of new awards that the Contracting Officer intends to make.  The contracting officer may decide to award more or fewer Contracts than the number anticipated in the solicitation depending upon the overall quality of the offers received;



(c)  Any Contractor that meets the eligibility requirements set forth in the new solicitation submits a proposal in response to the solicitation; however, existing Contractors may not hold more than one Basic Contract at any time;



(d)  The award decision under any solicitation is based upon substantially the same evaluation factors/sub-factors as the original solicitation;



(e)  The terms and conditions of any resulting awards from a new solicitation are materially identical to the existing version of the Basic Contract;



(f)  The term for any such new awards from a solicitation is co-terminus with the existing term for all other Contractors, including the option period (if applicable);



(g)  If awarded a contract, any new Contractor is eligible to submit a proposal in response to any TOR and receive Order awards with the same rights and obligations as any other Contractor; and



(h)  The award of any new Contract(s) does not increase the overall ceiling of the Basic Contract.



(END OF SECTION H)









PART II, SECTION I, CONTRACT CLAUSES

 

NONAPPROPRIATED FUND CONTRACT CLAUSES

                                                     

TABLE OF CONTENTS



CLAUSES MADE INAPPLICABLE BY THE TYPE OF ORDER OR CONTRACT ARE SELF-DELETING.



  DEFINITIONS

  ADVERTISEMENTS

  ASSIGNMENT

  COMMERCIAL WARRANTY

  DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

  DISPUTES

  EXAMINATION OF RECORDS

  GRATUITIES

  HOLD AND SAVE HARMLESS

  INSPECTION

  INSURANCE

  INVOICES

  LAW GOVERNING CONTRACTS

  LEGAL STATUS

  MODIFICATIONS

  ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

  PAYMENTS

  PROOF OF SHIPMENT

  TAXES

  TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE

  TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT

  VARIATION IN QUANTITY

  PROTESTS



(INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE)



  COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES

  WALSH-HEALEY PUBLIC CONTRACTS ACT

  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION – VETERANS

  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION – HANDICAPPED WORKERS

  EMPLOYMENT REPORTS – VETERAN

30.  RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES

31.  EXTRAS

32.  CHANGES - FIXED PRICE

33.  CONTRACTOR INSPECTOR REQUIREMENTS

34.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPPLIES

35.  CLEARANCE AND DOCUMENT – SHIPMENTS

36.  CONVICT LABOR

37.  CONTRACT WORK HOURS & SAFETY STANDARDS ACT

38.  SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965  (AS AMENDED)

39.  INSPECTION OF SERVICES – FIXED PRICE







NONAPPROPRIATED FUND CONTRACT CLAUSES





1.  Definitions.  As used throughout this contract, the following terms and abbreviations have the meaning set forth below:



a.  The term “Contract” means this agreement or order and any modifications hereto.



b.  The abbreviation “NAFI” means Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality of the United States Government.



c.  The term “Contracting Officer” means the person executing or responsible for administering this contract on behalf of the NAFI which is a party hereto, or his successor or successors.



d.  The term “Contractor” means the party responsible for providing supplies/equipment and/or services at a certain price or rate to the NAFI under this contract.



e.  The term “Contracting Officer’s Representative” (COR) means a person appointed by the contracting officer to monitor performance and act as a liaison between the contractor and the contracting officer.



2.  Advertisements.  The contractor agrees that none of its, nor its agent’s, advertisements to include publications, merchandise, promotions, coupons, sweepstakes, contests, sales brochures, etc., shall state, infer, or imply that the contractor’s products or services are approved, promoted, or endorsed by the NAFI.  Any advertisement, including cents off coupons, which refers to a NAFI will contain a statement that the advertisement is neither paid for nor sponsored, in whole or in part, by that particular activity.



3.  Assignment.  A contractor may not assign their rights or delegate their obligations under this contract without prior written consent of the contracting officer.



4.  Commercial Warranty.  The contractor agrees that the supplies/equipment or services furnished under this contract shall be covered by the most favorable commercial warranties the contractor gives to any customer for such supplies/equipment or services and that the rights and remedies provided herein are in addition to and do not limit any rights afforded to the NAFI by any other clause of this contract.  The printed terms and conditions of such warranty will be provided to the NAFI with the delivery of any supplies/equipment or services covered.



5.  Discounts for Prompt Payment.  In connection with any prompt payment discount offered, time will be computed from the date of the contractor’s invoice.  Payment is deemed to have been made as of the date on the payment check or date on which electronic funds transfer is made.



6.  Disputes.  Except as otherwise provided in this contract, any dispute or claim concerning this contract, which is not disposed of by agreement, shall be decided by the contracting officer, who shall state their decision in writing, and mail or otherwise furnish a copy of it to the contractor.  Within 90 days from date of receipt of such copy, the contractor may appeal by mailing or otherwise furnishing to the contracting officer a written appeal addressed to the immediate superior in Command (ISIC) of the Command one level above the contracting officer's Command. The decision of this authority shall be final and conclusive.  If no such appeal is filed, the decision of the contracting officer shall be final and conclusive.  The contractor shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of any appeal under this clause.  Pending final decision on such a dispute, the contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the contract and according to the decision of the contracting officer, unless directed to do otherwise by the contracting officer.



7.  Examination of Records



a.  The clause is applicable if the amount of this contract exceeds $10,000 and the contract was entered into by means of negotiation.  The contractor agrees that the contracting officer or their duly authorized representative shall have the right to examine and audit the books and records of the contractor directly pertaining to the contract during the period of the contract and up to 3 years after contract expiration date and final payment.



b.  The contractor agrees to include the clause in paragraph 7a above in all subcontracts there-under which exceed $10,000.



8.  Gratuities



a.  The NAFI may, by written notice to the contractor, terminate the right of the contractor to proceed under this contract if it is found, after notice and hearing by the Contracting Officer that gratuities (in the form of entertainment, gifts, or otherwise) were offered or given by the contractor, or any agent or representative of the contractor, to any officer or employee of the government or the NAFI with a view toward securing favorable treatment with respect to the awarding or amending, or the making of any determinations with respect to the performing of such contract.  The Contracting Officer must coordinate with and receive approval from N94 on all matters arising under this section.



b.  In the event this contract is terminated as provided in paragraph 8a above, the NAFI shall be entitled (1) to pursue the same remedies against the contractor as it would pursue in the event of a breach of contract by the contractor, and (2) as a penalty in addition to any other damages to which it may be entitled by law, to exemplary damages in an amount (as determined by the Contracting Officer, which shall not be less than three nor more than ten times the cost incurred by the contractor in providing any such gratuities to any such officer or employee.



c.  The rights and remedies of the NAFI provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.



9.  Hold and Save Harmless.  The contractor shall indemnify, save harmless, and defend the NAFI, its outlets, and customers from any liability, claimed or established, for violation or infringement of any patent, copyright, or trademark right asserted by any third party with respect to goods hereby ordered or any part thereof.  Contractor further agrees to hold the NAFI harmless from all claims or judgments for damages resulting from the use of products listed in this contract, except for such claims or damages caused by or resulting from negligence of NAFI customers, employees, agents, or representatives.  Also, the contractor shall at all times hold and save harmless the NAFI, its agents, representatives, and employees from any and all suits and expenses which arise out of acts or omissions of the contractor, its agents, representatives, or employees.



10.  Inspection.  Unless otherwise provided herein, inspection shall be made after receipt of the supplies/equipment by the ordering activity, or after completion of services by the contractor.  Inspection and acceptance shall not be conclusive, with respect to latent defects or fraud, or with respect to the NAFI’s rights under the proof of shipment provisions contained herein.  In case any supplies/equipment or services are defective in material or workmanship, or are otherwise not in conformity with the requirements of this contract, the NAFI shall have the right to reject such supplies or services, or to require replacement or correction.  Rejected supplies/equipment shall be removed by and at the expense of the contractor promptly after notice.  If required by the NAFI, the contractor, after notice of defect or non-conformance, shall, in a timely manner, correct or replace the defective or non-conforming supplies/equipment or services, or any part thereof.  When such correction or replacement requires transportation of the supplies/equipment or part thereof, all shipping costs to and from the contractor’s plant or place of business shall be borne by the contractor.



11.  Insurance



a.  The contractor shall, at their expense, procure and maintain, during the entire performance period of this contract, insurance of at least the kinds and minimum amount set forth herein.



b.  At all times during performance, the contractor shall maintain with the contracting officer a current certificate of insurance showing at least the insurance required herein, and providing 30 days written notice to the contracting officer by the insurance company prior to cancellation or material change in policy coverage.



c.  The contractor shall also require all first-tier subcontractors, who will perform work on a government installation, to procure and maintain the insurance required herein during the entire period of their performance.  The contractor shall furnish (or assure that it has been furnished) to the contracting officer a current certificate of insurance meeting the requirements of paragraph 11b above, for each such first-tier subcontractor, at least 5 days prior to entry of each such subcontractor’s personnel on the installation.



d.  In implementation of the insurance clause above, the contractor shall procure and maintain:



(1) Worker’s compensation as prescribed by the laws of the State in which the work will be performed and employer’s liability insurance.



(2) General liability insurance wherein the NAFI and the United States are included as named insured, stating that such insurance is primary (secondary to or contributory with 

no other insurance).  Policy limits of $1,000,000 per person - $1,000,000 per occurrence for injury or death, and $1,000,000 property damage per occurrence are required.



(3) The contractor is responsible for damage or loss to his/her owned or leased equipment.  Claims will be honored only if it can be shown that the NAFI was negligent and caused damage or loss to the contractor’s equipment.



12.  Invoices.  An invoice is a written request for payment under the contract for supplies/equipment delivered or for services rendered.  In order to be proper, an invoice must include (and in order to support the payment of interest penalties) the following:



a.  Invoice date;



b.  Name of contractor;



c.  Contract number (include order number, if any), contract description of supplies or services, quantity, contract unit of measure, unit price, and extended total;



d.  Regional Monthly Reconciliation Report showing the amounts paid in, the amount paid out, the residual income, the split of the residual income.



e.  Name and address to which payment is to be sent (name must be the same as that in the contract or on a proper notice of assignment);



f.  Name (where practicable), title, telephone number and mailing address of person to be notified in the event of a defective invoice; and



g.  Any other information or documentation required by other provisions of the contract (such as evidence of shipment).



Invoices shall be prepared and submitted in duplicate (one copy shall be marked “Original”) unless otherwise specified.



13.  Law Governing Contracts.  In any dispute arising out of this contract, the decision of which requires consideration of law questions, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be interpreted and determined according to the substantive and procedural laws of the United States of America.



14.  Legal Status.  The NAFI is an integral part of the Department of Defense and is an instrumentality of the United States Government.  NAFI contracts are United States Government contracts; however, they do not obligate appropriated funds of the United States.  NO APPROPRIATED FUNDS OF THE UNITED STATES SHALL BECOME DUE OR BE PAID A CONTRACTOR BY REASON OF THIS CONTRACT.



15.  Modifications.  No agreement or understanding to modify this contract will be binding upon the NAFI unless it is made in writing and signed by a contracting officer from the office that issued the contract or its successor.



16.  Order of Precedence.  In the event of an inconsistency between provisions of this solicitation/contract, the inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:  (1) description of the supplies/equipment or services and prices/costs; (2) description/specifications/work statement; (3) special contract requirements; (4) contract clauses;  (5) other provisions of the solicitation/award; and (6) any portion of the contractor’s bid or proposal that has been incorporated by reference and made a part of the contract.



17.  Payments.  Payment of prices stated in this contract will be made according to the Prompt Payment Act, as amended.  Unless otherwise specified, payment will be made on partial deliveries accepted by the NAFI when the amount due on such deliveries so warrants.  Payment is deemed to have been made as of the date on the payment check or date on which electronic funds transfer is made.



18.  Proof of Shipment.  (Applicable to shipments outside the United States through the Defense Transportation System (DTS) and parcel post shipments to overseas destinations.)  Except as otherwise provided in this contract, payment will be made for items not yet received upon receipt of an invoice accompanied by proof of delivery to a postal system or common carrier if delivery is FOB point of origin.  For deliveries FOB destination named port of debarkation, the invoice must be accompanied by a signed receipt by a government representative at the named port.



19.  Taxes.  The prices herein reflect full reduction for taxes that are non-applicable.  In addition to the exemption from federal excise taxes by virtue of exportation, all tangible personal property sold to NAFIs for resale are exempt from sales and use taxes.  All sales other than for resale depend on state law or federal constitutional immunity for exemption from state sales and use taxes.



20.  Termination for Convenience.  The contracting officer, by written notice, may terminate this contract, in whole or in part when it is in the best interest of the NAFI.  If this contract is for supplies/equipment and is so terminated, the contractor shall be compensated according to FAR subparts 49.1 and 49.2 in effect on the date of this contract award.  To the extent that this contract is for services and is so terminated, the NAFI shall be liable only for payment according to the payment provisions of this contract for services rendered prior to the effective date of termination, providing there are no contractor claims covering non-recurring costs for capital investment.  If there are any such contractor claims, they shall be settled according to FAR subparts 49.1 and 49.2.



21.  Termination for Default.  The contracting officer, by written notice, may terminate this contract in whole or in part for failure of the contractor to perform any of the provisions hereof.  In such event, the contractor shall be liable for damages including the excess cost of re-procuring similar supplies/equipment or services; provided that, if (1) it is determined for any reason that 

the contractor was not in default or (2) the contractor’s failure to perform is without the contractor’s or subcontractor’s control, fault, or negligence, the termination must be deemed to be a termination for convenience.  As used in this provision, the term “subcontractor” means subcontractor at any tier.



22.  Variation in Quantity.  No variation in quantity of any item listed in the order/contract will be accepted unless authorized by the contracting officer.



23.  Protests.  “PROTEST OF AWARD”  Offerors are encouraged to resolve any complaints or issues they may have with the contracting officer in an informal manner. However, where an offeror is not satisfied with an award decision of the contracting officer, that offeror may file a written protest with the contracting officer and the contracting officer will issue a final decision on the protest.  Any interested party who is dissatisfied by the contracting officer’s final decision on the protest may file a written appeal with the Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC).  The procedures for filing protests may be found in chapter 2, paragraph 223.  A copy of paragraph 223 will be provided to any offeror by the contracting officer upon request.





CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE





The provisions of the following clauses set forth in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) are hereby incorporated into this order or contract by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  As used in the following clause, the term “Government” is deleted and the abbreviation “NAFI” is substituted in lieu thereof.  The date of each clause shall be the current date set forth in the FAR at the time of issuance of an order or contract award.  Clauses made inapplicable by the reference or by the type or order or contract (e.g., order or contracts for services instead of supplies/equipment) are self-deleting.  Upon request, the contracting officer will provide the full text.



CLAUSE NO.        REFERENCE     	      CLAUSE TITLE



   24	52.203-5	Covenant Against Contingent Fees (Contracts over

	                                     $100,000)



   25	52.222-20	Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (Supply Contracts in Excess of $10,000)      (not with foreign contractors)

   26	52.222.26	Equal Opportunity (Supply and Service Contracts over

                                       	 $10,000)



   27	52.222.35	Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Supplies and Services over $10,000)



   28	52.222-36 	Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Supplies And Services Contracts Over $10,000)



   29	52.222-37	Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of The Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Supplies and Service Contracts over $100,000)



   30	52.225-13	Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases



   31	52-232-11	Extras



   32	52.243-1	Changes–Fixed Price (with ALT I through IV)

	  

   33	52.246-1	Contractor Inspection Requirements



   34	52.246-16	Responsibility for Supplies



   35	52.247-52	Clearance and Documentation Requirements-Shipments to DOD Air or Water Terminal Trans-shipment Points



   36	52.222-3	Convict Labor (Contracts over $2,500)



   37	52.222-4	Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act-                                        Overtime Compensation –General (Contracts over $100,000)



   38	52.222-41	Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended (Contracts over $2,500)

                                                              

   39	52.246-4	Inspection of Services – Fixed Price







SUPPLEMENTAL CLAUSES



1.  REQUIREMENTS



a.  This is a requirements contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the schedule.  The quantities of supplies or services specified in the schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract.  Except as this contract may otherwise provide, if the NAFI’s requirements do not result in orders in the estimated quantities described in the Schedule, that fact shall not constitute the basis for an equitable price adjustment.



b.  Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by delivery orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The contractor shall furnish to the NAFI all supplies or services specified in the Schedule and called for by delivery orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The NAFI may issue delivery orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations.  There is no limit on the number or orders that may be issued by the NAFI.



c.  The NAFI shall order from the Contractor all the supplies or services specified in the schedule that are required to be purchased by the NAFI activity or activities specified in the schedule.

    

d.  Delivery orders issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that time shall be completed by the contractor within the time specified in the order, and the rights and obligations of the contractor and the NAFI respecting those orders shall be governed by the terms of the contract to the same extent as if completed during the effective period of this contract. 



2.  ORDERING.  The supplies or services to be furnished under this contract will be ordered from time to time during the contract term, by the NAFI or its authorized representative.  Each such order may be placed orally, but must be confirmed via written delivery order, with the exception of Government Purchase Card orders.  All delivery orders and purchase card orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract.  In the event of a conflict between an order and this contract, the contract shall control.  



3.  OPTION TO EXTEND.  The contracting officer shall advise the contractor in writing at least 60 calendar days before the contract period expires of the NAFI’s desire to extend the period of the contract for 12 months. If the NAFI exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option provision. Total contract performance period shall not exceed 5 years.



4.  EXTENSION OF SERVICES: The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits specified in the contract. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 60 days. 









SECTION J – LIST OF ATTACHMENTS





Facility Bid Worksheet



Bowling Center

Marinas

Chief Petty Officer  Clubs

Enlisted Clubs

Officer’s Clubs

Recreation Centers

Lodging

Coffee shops/food outlets

Other




Sample Worksheet(s):  (a separate worksheet for each individual location being proposed on the Navy Installation)




























PART IV, SECTION K

_______________________________________________________________________

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

__________________________________________________________________________



WALSH-HEALEY PUBLIC CONTRACTS ACT REPRESENTATIONS (Applicable to supply contracts exceeding $15,000.00)



	The offeror represents as a part of this offer that the offeror {_____} is or {_____} is not a regular dealer in, or  {_____} is or {____} is not a manufacturer of, the supplies offered.



CONTINGENT FEE 



(a) Offeror _____has _____ has not employed any company or persons (other than a full-time bona fide employee working solely for the offeror) to solicit or secure this contract, and (b) _____has _____has not paid or agreed to pay any company or person (other than a full-time bona fide employee working solely for the offeror) any fee, commission, percentage, or brokerage fee contingent upon or resulting from the award of this contract; and agrees to furnish information relating to (a) and (b), as requested by the contracting officer.  (Interpretation of the representation, including the term “bona fide employee,” see subpart 3.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.)



TYPE OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATION



Offeror operates as _____an individual _____a partnership _____a nonprofit organization _____a corporation, incorporated under the laws of the State of________________________________.



EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (EO) 



(a) Offeror _____has _____has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the EO clause herein or the clause originally contained in section 310 of Executive Order No. 10925, or the clause contained in section 201 of Executive Order No. 11114; offeror _____has _____has not filed all required compliance reports; and that representation indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained prior to subcontract awards.



(b) Offeror represents that (1) it _____has developed and has on file _____has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment affirmative action programs as required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2) or (2) _____it has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.



CERTIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT PRICE DETERMINATION (Applicable to contracts over $100,000.00)

(a) By submission of this offer, the offeror certifies, and in the case of a joint offer, each party thereto certifies as to its own organization, that in connection with this procurement:



(1) The prices in this offer have been arrived at independently, without consultation, communication, or agreement, for the purpose of restricting competition, as to any matter relating to such prices with any other offeror or with any competitor;



(2) Unless otherwise required by law, the prices which have been quoted in this offer have not been knowingly disclosed by the offeror and will not knowingly be disclosed by the offeror prior to opening in the case of an advertised procurement or prior to award in the case of a negotiated procurement, directly or indirectly to any other offeror or to any competitor; and



(3) No attempt has been made or will be made by the offeror to induce any other person or firm to submit or not to submit an offer for the purpose of restricting competition.



    (b) Each signature on this offer certifies that the signatory:



(1) Is the person in the offeror’s organization responsible within that organization for the decision as to the prices being offered herein and that the signatory has not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to (a)(1) through (a)(3) above; or



(2) (i) Is not the person in the offeror’s organization responsible within that organization for the decision as to the prices being offered herein but has been authorized in writing to act as agent for the persons responsible for such decision in certifying that such persons have not participated and will not participate, in any action contrary to (a)(1) through (a)(3) above, and as their agent does hereby so certify; and (ii) has not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to (a)(1) through (a)(3) above.



CERTIFICATION OF NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES (Applicable to contracts and subcontracts exceeding $10,000.00 which are not exempt from the provisions of the EO clause)



(a) By submission of this offer, offeror/subcontractor certifies that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained.  Offeror/subcontractor agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the EO clause in this contract.  As used in this certification, the term “segregated facilities” means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest and wash rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise.  Offeror further agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will (1) obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000.00 which are not exempt from the provisions of the EO clause; (2) retain such certifications in its files; and (3) forward the following notice to such proposed subcontractors (except where the proposed subcontractors have submitted identical certifications for specific time periods)



Notice to prospective subcontractors of requirement for certifications of nonsegregated facilities.



(b) A Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities must be submitted prior to the award of a subcontract exceeding $10,000.00 which is not exempt from the provisions of the EO clause.



(c) The certification may be submitted either for each subcontract or for all subcontracts during a period (i.e., quarterly, semiannually, or annually).  NOTE:  The penalty for making false offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001.



    (d) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS



                                 			Amendment No.          Date



The offeror acknowledges      ____________           	_____

receipt of amendments to        ____________          	_____

the solicitation for offers      	____________           	_____

and related documents            ____________           	_____

numbered and dated as           ____________		 _____

follows:



NOTE:  Offers must set forth accurate and complete information as required by this Solicitation (including attachments).  The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001.








PART IV, SECTION L

INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS



L-1.  PREPARATION OF OFFERS



a.  Offerors are expected to examine the specifications and all instructions.  Failure to do so will be at the offeror's risk.



b.  Each offeror shall furnish the information required by the solicitation.  The offeror shall sign the offer and print or type its name on the Schedule and each continuation sheet on which it makes an entry.  Erasures or other changes must be initialed by the person signing the offer.  Offers signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent's authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office.



c.  For each item offered, offerors shall (1) show the unit price/cost, including, unless otherwise specified, packaging, packing, and preservation, and (2) enter the extended price/cost for the quantity of each item offered when requested.  In case of a discrepancy between a unit price/cost and an extended price/cost, the unit price/cost will be presumed to be correct, subject, however, to correction to the same extent and in the same manner as any other mistake.



d.  Offers for supplies or services other than those specified will not be considered unless authorized by the solicitation. 



e.  Offerors must state a definite time for delivery of supplies or services, unless otherwise specified in the solicitation.



f.  Time, if stated as a number of days, will include Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.





L-2.  BREAKDOWN OF TECHNICAL AND PRICE PROPOSALS



Offerors shall submit four (4) copies of each volume of their technical proposal and two (2) copies each of their price proposal.



a.  A proposal submitted in response to this solicitation must consist of two separate volumes: technical and price.  The technical volume must not contain any contract price or cost information.



b.  Any data previously submitted in response to another solicitation will be assumed unavailable to the NAFI; and this data shall not be incorporated into the proposal by reference.



c.  Clarity and completeness of the proposal are of utmost importance.  The proposal shall be written in a practical, clear, and concise manner.  It must use quantitative terms whenever possible and shall avoid qualitative adjectives to the maximum extent possible.  Proposal volumes must be internally consistent or the proposal will be considered unrealistic and unacceptable.



d.  The technical and price volumes must be submitted in separately sealed envelopes within a sealed package and be clearly marked with the solicitation number.  Each volume must have a table of contents.





L-3.  INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF TECHNICAL PROPOSAL.



In order to provide all necessary information for a comprehensive technical evaluation, including consideration of overall company technical qualifications and background experience, your proposal shall:



a. 	Cover your understanding of the proposed work and your proposed method of approach to attain contract objectives.  The technical approach shall be such as to enable personnel with general training to make a thorough and complete evaluation and arrive at a sound determination as to whether or not the services proposed and described will satisfy the requirements of the Government.  To facilitate the evaluation, the technical proposal should be sufficiently specific, detailed, and complete to clearly and fully demonstrate that the prospective offeror has a thorough understanding of the requirements for, and technical problems inherent in the achievement of the specifications and work program herein described, and has a valid and practical solution for each contemplated problem.  It is realized that all of the technical factors cannot be detailed in advance; however, the technical proposal shall contain sufficient detail to indicate the proposed means for complying with all applicable specifications and shall include a complete explanation of the techniques and procedures to be exercised.  Data previously submitted may not be considered; therefore, such data should not be relied upon nor incorporated in the technical proposal by reference.  Statements that offeror understands, can or will comply with all specifications, statements paraphrasing the specifications or parts thereof, and phrases such as "standard procedures will be employed" or well known techniques will be used," etc., will be considered insufficient.





b.	Describe in detail the experience that the company, division, or branch which is to perform the required services has had in contracts of similar nature.  List major contracts and include for each:



	(1)	Contract number

	(2)	Type of contract and dollar amount

	(3)	Description of work and end product you produced

	(4)	For whom performed and personal point of contact

	(5)	Performance period and location

	(6)	Conditions of acceptance and user application of product.



The above should indicate the company's depth of experience in respect to the proposed services.



c.	Include details of the company's organization and in particular the division or branch which is to perform the required services.



d.	Present the contractor's concept of the Government's objectives which are to be accomplished under the contract and explain how you plan to achieve them.  This should include a description of contractor's audit control and other system features together with samples of payroll, personnel, and tax reports and plan for phase-in.



e.	Present the company's policies, procedures, and objectives for personnel training.



In order to facilitate the review process and obtain the maximum degree of comparison, proposal should include the following information presented in the order and format shown below:



Title Page: Show Request For Proposal (RFP) subject, name of proposer’s firm, address, telephone and fax numbers, name of contact person and date of submission.



Transmittal Letter: A one or two page summary stating the proposer’s understanding of the work to be done and making a positive commitment to perform the work within the time period required.



Table of Contents: A clear identification of the material by section and page number.



Profile of the Proposer: Include location of office(s), number of partners, managers, supervisors, seniors, and other professional staff. If applicable, identify all major subcontractors necessary to conduct the project. Describe the range of activities performed by your firm, including capability for auditing computerized systems.



Technical Approach: A clear description of the approach and methodology for implementing the statement of work.



Program organization and management: This subsection should show the project team proposed for the work identified (identification of persons assigned to individual task(s)) and, if applicable, the function and responsibilities for major subcontractors.

Program schedule: This subsection shall include the period of performance, proposed duration of the project in months and a milestone chart. Time for preparation and submission of the reports should be included in the schedule.

Qualifications and Experience of Staff: Include a list of personnel to be used on this project and their qualifications. Résumé, including education, background accomplishments and any other pertinent information must be included for each of the key personnel to be assigned for direct work on the project (including subcontractors, if any).

The contractor must include a statement in the proposal to the effect that “the key personnel assigned to this project as described in this proposal will not be removed from the audit without prior approval of the CNIC Contracting.”

Qualifications and Experience of Firm: Company experience which is relevant to the proposed program, i.e. experience with other CNIC Contracts.



Additional data: A listing, by installation, of the facilities and quantity of units proposed for each facility and the revenue sharing basis for the Region. Since the proceeding sections are to contain data that is specifically requested, any additional information considered essential to the project should be included in this section. If there is no additional information present, state “None”.



The Offeror shall prepare a separate worksheet for each individual location as per the sample shown in Section J. The Worksheets shall provide adequate information to properly evaluate the Offeror’s intent for the system installation at the individual facilities at each Installation within a particular Navy Region.



Facility Bid Worksheet

Bowling Center

Marinas

Chief Petty Officer  Clubs

Enlisted Clubs

Officer’s Clubs

Recreation Centers

Lodging

Coffee shops/food outlets

Other





L-4.  AMENDMENTS TO SOLICITATIONS



a.   If this solicitation is amended, then all terms and conditions which are not modified remain unchanged.



b.   Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by (1) signing and returning the amendment, (2) identifying the amendment number and date in the space provided for this purpose on the form for submitting an offer, and (3) by sending letter (or facsimile, if facsimile offers are authorized in the solicitation).  The NAFI must receive the acknowledgment by the time specified for receipt of offers.









L-5.  SUBMISSION OF OFFERS



Offers and modifications thereof shall be submitted in sealed envelopes or packages addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and show the time specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the offeror.



Pre-Proposal Conference is Scheduled for 26 Aug 2011 at 9:00am (CST). The conference will be held at CNIC, Millington, TN. Location: TBD



Due Date for Proposals: September 15, 2011 NLT 4:00PM (CST)





L-6.  LATE SUBMISSIONS, MODIFICATIONS, AND WITHDRAWALS OF PROPOSALS



	a.  Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made and it



	(1) was sent by registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of offers (e.g., an offer submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of offers by the 20th of the month must have been mailed by the 15th);



	(2) was sent by mail or, if authorized by the solicitation, or via facsimile and it is determined by the NAFI that the late receipt was due solely to mishandling by the NAFI after receipt at the Government installation;



	(3) was sent by Express Mail (e.g. FedEx, UPS or postal service), not later than 5:00 P.M. at the place of mailing two working days prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals.  The term "working days" excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays; or



	(4) is the only proposal received.



	b.  Any modification of a proposal or quotation, except a modification resulting from the Contracting Officer's request for "best and final" offer is subject to the same conditions above.



	c.  A modification resulting from the Contracting Officer's request for "best and final" offer received after the time and date specified in the request will not be considered unless received before award and the late receipt is due solely to mishandling by the NAFI after receipt at the Government installation.



	d.  The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal or modification sent either by U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail is the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service postmark both on the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service.  Both postmarks must show a legible date or the proposal, quotation, or modification shall be processed as if mailed late.  "Postmark" means a printed, stamped, or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service on the date of mailing.  Therefore, offerors or quoters should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation bull's eye postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper.



	e.  The only acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation is the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper or other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation.



	f.  The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late offer, modification, or withdrawal sent by “Express Mail Service” is the date entered by the mail service  receiving clerk on the "Express Mail Service" label and/or the postmark on both the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the mail service provider.  "Postmark" has the same meaning as defined above, excluding postmarks of the Canadian Postal Service.  Therefore, offerors or quoters should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation bull's eye postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper.



	g.  Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this provision, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the NAFI will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.



	h.  Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award.  If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provisions entitled "Facsimile Proposals."  Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposals before award.



L-7.  RESTRICTION ON DISCLOSURE AND USE OF DATA



Offerors or quoters who include in their proposals or quotations data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose or used by the NAFI except for evaluation purposes, shall



	a. mark the title page with the following legend:  "This proposal or quotation includes data that shall not be disclosed in whole or in part - for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal or quotation.  If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror or quoter as a result of - or in connection with - the submission of this data, the NAFI shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract.  This restriction does not limit the NAFI's right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction.  The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets ___________ (insert numbers or other identification of sheets"; and

	

	b. mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend: "Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal or quotation."



L-8.  EXPLANATION TO PROSPECTIVE OFFERORS



Any prospective offeror desiring an explanation or interpretation of the solicitation, drawings, specifications, etc., must request it in writing soon enough to allow a reply to reach all prospective offerors before the submission of their offers, these issues will be discussed during the pre-proposal conference.  Oral explanations or instructions given before the award of the contract will not be binding.  Any information given to a prospective offeror concerning a solicitation will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors as an amendment of the solicitation, if that information is necessary in submitting offers or if the lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offerors.



L-9.  FAILURE TO SUBMIT OFFER



Recipients of this solicitation not responding with an offer should not return this solicitation, unless it specifies otherwise.  Instead, they should advise the issuing office by letter or postcard whether they want to receive future solicitations for similar requirements.  If a recipient does not submit an offer and does not notify the issuing office that future solicitations are desired, the recipient's name may be removed from the applicable mailing list.



Any questions to this solicitation shall be in written form and delivered to the Contracting Officer no later than two weeks following issuance of the solicitation.



L-10.  CONTRACT AWARD - NEGOTIATED PROCUREMENT



	a.  The NAFI will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the NAFI, cost or price and other factors specified elsewhere in this solicitation, considered.



	b.  The NAFI may (1) reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest, (2) accept other than the lowest offer, and (3) waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received.



	c.  The NAFI intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors.  Therefore, each initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint.  However, the NAFI reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary.



	d.  The NAFI may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations.  



	e.  A written award or acceptance of offer mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.  Before the offer's specified expiration time, the NAFI may accept an offer, or part of an offer, as provided above, whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.  Negotiations conducted after receipt of an offer do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the NAFI.



	f.  Neither financial data submitted with an offer, nor representations concerning facilities or financing, will form a part of the resulting contract.  However, if the resulting contract contains a clause providing for price reduction for defective cost or pricing data, the contract price will be subject to reduction if cost or pricing data furnished is incomplete, inaccurate, or not current.



	g.  The NAFI may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items.  An offer is materially unbalanced when it is based on prices which are significantly overstated in relation to cost for other work, and if there is a reasonable doubt that the offer will result in the lowest overall cost to the NAFI, even though it may be the low evaluated offer, or it is so unbalanced as to be tantamount to allowing an advance payment.



L-11.  TYPE OF CONTRACT



The NAFI contemplates award of an Indefinite Delivery Requirements  contract resulting from this solicitation.








PART IV, SECTION M

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD





Evaluation Procedures



Evaluation Criteria

The proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the following criteria:



Responsiveness of the proposal in clearly stating an understanding of the requirements. 

Reasonableness of overall game accessibility estimates to the patrons. As well as the estimates for each major section of the work to be performed 



Qualifications and experience of firm 

Experience of firm in operating electronic bingo enterprises. 

Size and structure of firm and ability to maintain continuity of project 



Qualifications and experience of staff to be assigned. Education, position in the firm, and years and types of experience will be considered.

 The number of units proposed in each Region.



Pricing (Revenue Share)





Evaluation of the Technical vs the Price Factors are as follows:



Responsiveness and understanding of the Proposal and Qualifications and experience of the Firm are equal; Qualifications and experience of the Staff is slightly less important

Pricing (Revenue Sharing) is less important than Technical.

Pricing and number of units are equal.









SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

RATING

PAGE OF PAGE

PAGE OF PAGE

PAGE OF PAGE

PAGE OF PAGE

PAGE OF PAGE

PAGE OF PAGE

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

1.	THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)











1

1

1

37

37

37

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

2.	CONTRACT NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

3.	SOLICITATION NUMBER

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

5.	DATE ISSUED

5.	DATE ISSUED

5.	DATE ISSUED

5.	DATE ISSUED

5.	DATE ISSUED

5.	DATE ISSUED

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

6.	REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

















HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

































HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

HDQMWR-11-R-0017

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

4.	TYPE OF SOLICITATION

	SEALED BID (IFB)

	NEGOTIATED (RFP)

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

August 2, 2011

















7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE

7.	ISSUED BY	CODE













8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

8.	ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than item 7)

COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457







COMMANDER NAVY INSTALLATIONS COMMAND

FACILITIES AND ACQUISITIONS BRANCH N944

5720  457





















































NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

NOTE:	In sealed bid solicitations “offer” and “offeror” mean “bid” and “bidder”.

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

9.	Sealed offers in original and 

           3

           3

           3

           3

           3

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

	handcarried, in the depository located in

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

        See Section L

until

until

 4:00PM

 4:00PM

 4:00PM

local time

local time

local time

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

   09/15/2011

































































(Hour)

(Hour)

(Hour)







(Date)

(Date)

(Date)

(Date)

(Date)

(Date)

(Date)





CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals:  See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1.  All offers are subject to all terms and conditions
contained in this solicitation.

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

A.	NAME

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

B.	TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

C.	E-MAIL ADDRESS

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

EXT.

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

10.  FOR

INFORMATION

CALL:

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

John Wolfslau

    901

    901

    901

    901

    901

    901

 874-6902

 874-6902

 874-6902

 874-6902

 874-6902

 874-6902

 874-6902





John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

John.wolfslau@navy.mil

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

11.  TABLE OF CONTENTS

(X)

SEC.

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

PAGE(S)

(X)

(X)

(X)

SEC.

SEC.

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

DESCRIPTION

PAGE(S)

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART I - THE SCHEDULE

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES

X

A

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM

1

1

1

X

X

X

I

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

CONTRACT CLAUSES

12-21

X

B

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

2-3

2-3

2-3

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

X

C

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT

4-7

4-7

4-7

X

X

X

J

J

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

21-25



D

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

PACKAGING AND MARKING

-

-

-

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

X

E

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

7

7

7

X

X

X

K

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

26-28

X

F

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

8

8

8







K

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER 
STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

26-28

X

G

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

8-10

8-10

8-10

X

X

X

L

L

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

29-36

X

H

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

10-12

10-12

10-12

X

X

X

M

M

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

37

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

OFFER  (Must be fully completed by offeror)

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

NOTE:	Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within

12.		In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within













calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

	period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite 
each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

13.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS (%)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)

	(See Section I, Clause No. 52-232-8)



































































14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

DATE

DATE

DATE

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):



































































14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):

14.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMEND-

	MENTS   (The offeror acknowledges receipt of

	amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors

	and related documents numbered and dated):







































































15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR





CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE

CODE













FACILITY

FACILITY

FACILITY

FACILITY

FACILITY

















16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)





15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR





  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)

16.	NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

	(Type or print)





15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR









15A.	NAME AND

	ADDRESS

	OF OFFEROR





  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  





































15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER

15B.  TELEPHONE NUMBER







15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

17.	SIGNATURE

18.	OFFER DATE

18.	OFFER DATE

18.	OFFER DATE

18.	OFFER DATE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

EXT.

EXT.







15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.





































 

 

















15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

15C.	CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS

	IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER

	SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.





































AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

AWARD  (To be completed by Government)

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

19.	ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

20.	AMOUNT        

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

21.	ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

    See Section G-1

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

22.	AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION:

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

ITEM

	 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)

	 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)

	 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)

	 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)

(







)

)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

 41 U.S.C. 253(c)

(





)

)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

23.	SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS

	SHOWN IN  (4 copies unless otherwise specified)

See Sect G-1

See Sect G-1

See Sect G-1

See Sect G-1

See Sect G-1

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE

24.	ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)	CODE















25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

25.	PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY	CODE

















































































































See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1

See Section G-1









26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

26.	NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

27.	

28.	AWARD DATE

28.	AWARD DATE

28.	AWARD DATE

28.	AWARD DATE

28.	AWARD DATE

28.	AWARD DATE







































































































































(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)

(Signature of Contracting Officer)













IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214 (c)



CLIN

DESCRIPTION

QTY

UI



PRICE





CNIC

REGION

Contractor Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage

NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage

















0001AA

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing  Fee Percentage for Base Period Year One 

1

YR

-- 







0001AA

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing  Fee Percentage for Base Period Year One 

1

YR

-- 







0001AA

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing  Fee Percentage for Base Period Year One 

1

YR

-- 









Equipment

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Reporting requirements

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Quality Assurance program

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--

















0001AB

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Two 

1

YR

--







0001AB

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Two 

1

YR

--







0001AB

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Two 

1

YR

--









Equipment

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Reporting requirements

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Quality Assurance program

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



CLIN

DESCRIPTION

QTY

UI



PRICE







CNIC

REGION

Contractor Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage

NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage

















0001AC

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Three 

1

YR

--







0001AC

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Three 

1

YR

--







0001AC

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Base Period Year Three 

1

YR

--









Equipment

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Reporting requirements

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Quality Assurance program

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--

















0002

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Option Year One (year four) 

1

YR

--







0002

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Option Year One (year four) 

1

YR

--







0002

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharing Fee Percentage for Option Year One (year four) 

1

YR

--









Equipment

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Reporting requirements

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Quality Assurance program

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--

















0003

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharinge Fee Percentage for Option Year Two (year five)

1

YR

--







0003

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharinge Fee Percentage for Option Year Two (year five)

1

YR

--







0003

Contractor/NAFI Revenue Sharinge Fee Percentage for Option Year Two (year five)

1

YR

--









Equipment

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Reporting requirements

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Quality Assurance program

1

lot

NSP

--

--

--



Name of Region

Name of Region

 

Mid Atlantic

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

NSAA Saratoga Springs

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVSTA Newport

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



SUBBASE New London

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Philadelphia

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



WPNSTA Earle

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Lakehurst

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Norfolk

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



WPNSTA Yorktown

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



JEB Little Creek-Fort Story

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Mechanicsburg

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



Cheatham Annex

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSS Norfolk Naval Shipyard

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVSTA Norfolk

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Oceana

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Northwest Annex

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



Dam Neck Annex

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

NIOC Sugar grove









Name of Region

Name of Region

 

SouthEast

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Kingsville

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS JRB New Orleans

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NCBC Gulfport

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Pensacola

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Whiting Field

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Panama City

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS JRB Fort Worth

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Meridian

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Corpus Christi

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Orlando

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Key West

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVSTA Guantanamo

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Charleston

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



SUBBASE Kings Bay

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVSTA Mayport

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Jacksonville

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

 









Name of Region

Name of Region

 

NDW

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Annapolis

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Pax River

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NRC Solomons

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Bethesda

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA Washington

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



JB Anacostia Bolling

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSF Dalhgren

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSF Indian Head













Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

 

Midwest

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation



NAVSTA Great Lakes

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation



NSA Midsouth

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation

 

NSA Crane













Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

Southwest

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Fallon

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Lemoore

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Port Hueneme

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Point Mugu

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA San Nicolas

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NSA San Clemente

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAWS China Lake

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



WPNSTA Seal Beach

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Coronado

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Point Loma

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE San Diego

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAF El Centro

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

NSA Monterrey



Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

Northwest

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Kitsap

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVBASE Bremerton

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAS Whidby

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.



NAVSTA Everett

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each location.

 

NRC Pac Beach











Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Hawaii

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



JB Pearl Harbor

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



JB Hickam Field

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

PMRF Barking Sands











Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Marianas

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSA JB Anderson

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NAVBASE Guam

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

 











Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Singapore

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NRS Singapore

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



 

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

 











Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Japan-Korea

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NAF Misawa

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSF Diego Garcia

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NAF Atsugi

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



CFA Yokosuka

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



CFA Sasebo

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



CFA Okinawa

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



New Sanno Hotel

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

CFA Chinhae











Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Europe/Asia

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSA Rota

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NAS Sigonella

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSA Naples

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSA Souda Bay

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.



NSA Bahrain

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

Name of Installation. Complete a worksheet for each installation.

 

Camp Lemonier 



Activity List

Activity List

Region

 

Installation

Quantity 

Bowling Center

 

Officer Club

 

CPO Club

 

Enlisted Club

 

Golf Course Clubhouse

 

Rec Center

 

Bingo Center

 

Coffee Shop

 

Lodging/NGIS

 

Other

 