




UNITED STATES department of state

REQUEST FOR Quote

Guatemala Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) Phase II







Information To Contractors



Contractors are reminded that information furnished under this Request for Quote (RFQ) may be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  Therefore, all items that are confidential to business or that contain trade secrets or proprietary or personnel information must be clearly marked.  Marking of items will not necessarily preclude disclosure when Department of State (DoS) determines disclosure is warranted by FOIA.  However, if such items are not marked, all information contained within the submitted documents will be deemed releasable.



Questions



All questions must be submitted in writing. DoS will accept questions by e-mail. Written questions relating to this RFQ will be accepted through 11:00 A.M. (local Washington D.C. time) July 12, 2013.  Any communications in reference to this RFQ shall cite the reference number and be directed to the following individual:



Name:  Carl Henriksen

Phone:  202-716-3620

E-mail:	henriksenc@state.gov



Quote Delivery



Contractors shall submit one electronic copy of File I (Technical Quote) and File II (Cost/Price Quote). This includes Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint (as applicable and appropriate).  PDF format shall be used only for scanned documents.  



File I shall be on a separate electronic file from File II.  



The electronic copy, upon file opening and display on the computer monitor, shall appear exactly as a printed hard copy quote submission with the same font size restriction.



Notice of RFQ Closing Date and Time



All offers shall be submitted to the designated Government Representative via email not later than 3:00 P.M. (local Washington D.C. time) on July 29, 2013.



Contractor Relationships



The DoS encourages the use of subcontractors. 



Multiple Proposals/Alternative Solutions



Contractors shall not submit, nor will the Government accept or evaluate, multiple quotes offering alternative solutions.  Contractors shall not submit, nor will the Government accept or evaluate, multiple solutions within one quote.



Period of Acceptance of Offers



Contractors shall agree, if the quote is accepted within ninety (90) calendar days (unless a greater period is inserted by the contractor) from the date specified in the solicitation for receipt of quotes, to furnish any or all of the requirements upon which prices are proposed at the price set opposite each item, performed and/or delivered at the designated point(s) within the time specified.


THE ACQUISITION PROCESS



GENERAL INFORMATION





Basis for Award



The Government contemplates award of a firm fixed priced contract to the responsible contractor whose offer conforms to the requirements of the solicitation and is evaluated as being the most advantageous to the Government, cost or price and other factors considered.  For this RFQ, technical merit is significantly more important than cost or price.  Award will not be automatically determined by numerical calculation or formula relationship between cost or price and technical merit.  As technical merit of the contractor’s quotes becomes more equal, the evaluated cost or price may become the determining factor.  The Contracting Officer shall determine what trade-off between technical merit and cost or price promises the greatest value to the Government, cost or price and other factors considered.  The Department reserves the right to make award without discussions. However, discussions, if held, will be in the form of written questions, to which the contractors will be required to respond.  



The evaluation factors are management approach and technical capabilities; organization experience, past performance and cost/price.  



Valuation Factors and Methodology



Evaluation Factors and Methodology



The following evaluation factors listed in descending order of importance apply to this task order procurement and will be used to evaluate the offer:



Management Approach and Technical Capabilities

Organization Experience

Past Performance

Cost/Price 



Technical Evaluation Factors 1 and 2 (Management Approach and Technical Capabilities and Organization Experience) will be evaluated using the following adjectival rating scheme: Outstanding, Acceptable, Marginal, Unacceptable.  Technical Evaluation Factor 3 (Past Performance) will be evaluated using the following adjectival rating scheme: Confidence, Unknown Confidence, No Confidence.  



The Non-Technical Evaluation Factor (i.e. Cost/Price) will be evaluated as detailed in this section.   An “Unacceptable” or “No Confidence” rating in any factor will result in the elimination of a contractor’s quote from consideration for award of the task order.  



For this Request for Quote (RFQ), technical merit (captured in the three (3) technical evaluation factors enumerated above, taken together) is significantly more important than cost/price. 



Technical Evaluation Factor 1: Management Approach and Technical Capabilities



Quote Requirement Instructions:



The contractor shall submit a clear and complete description of its approach for achieving the DoS objectives.  The contractor’s management approach and technical capabilities shall include: 

1) a discussion of the background, objectives, and work requirements included in the Statement of Work; 

2) a discussion of proposed methods and techniques for completing each task; 

3) a discussion which supports “how” each task will be evaluated for full performance and acceptability of work from the contractor’s viewpoint; 

4) a discussion on anticipated difficulties and problem areas, along with a mitigation plan; 

5) a discussion on the logistical considerations associated with this task order; and 

6) a Project Management Plan (PMP) that clearly describes subcontracting arrangements (if applicable), communication and coordination, scheduling of all tasks and subtasks, meetings, and deliverables. 



Evaluation Criteria:



The Management Approach and Technical Capabilities will be evaluated for its quality and evidence of the extent to which the contractor’s solution will achieve the Department’s objectives.  The evaluation will include an assessment of the contractor’s understanding of the work, including creativity and thoroughness shown in understanding the objectives of the Statement of Work and its specific tasks.  The evaluation will also assess the comprehensiveness of the Project Management Plan, if applicable. 



The Government will use the following adjectival ratings to evaluate the Management Approach and Technical Capabilities Factor:



Table 2.1, Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 1





Technical Evaluation Factor 2:  Organization Experience



Quote Requirement Instructions:



The contractor shall provide personnel that have the right skill sets to successfully perform the tasks, subtasks, and activities identified in the Statement of Work.  The contractor shall provide a Staffing Plan that describes “how” the contractor will staff the project, including labor categories and number of resources under each labor category. The contractor shall submit resumes for key personnel.  The resume shall include name, education, certification(s), current security clearance level, technical skills, relevant training received within the past two (2) years and current and relevant professional experience.  The contractor shall describe the roles and responsibilities for the key personnel proposed.  The contractor shall also provide the employment agreement of any individual whose resume is presented in their quote and who are not currently employed by the Contractor or one of its subcontractors.  



Evaluation Criteria:



The contractor will be evaluated on its demonstrated ability to hire and maintain qualified employees, handle personnel issues, assemble high quality staff to fill immediate requirements and provide people with all the necessary support and oversight.  The contractor’s designated key personnel will be evaluated to determine their capacity to perform the required support services.  



The Government will use the following adjectival ratings to evaluate the Organization Experience Factor:



Table 2.2, Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 2





Technical Evaluation Factor 3:  Past Performance



Quote Requirement Instructions:



The contractor shall substantiate that it has recent experience in performing the required work and demonstrate how its past and present experience validates that it will provide expected performance and customer satisfaction.  The contractor shall provide a minimum of two (2) and a maximum of three (3) Past Performance Contract Profiles (Refer to Attachment B – Past Performance Contract Profile) that are directly relevant to the required effort and are of similar size (dollar value), scope (substantially similar services) and complexity (degree of difficulty).  A minimum of one (1) of the past performance profiles shall be for services performed by the prime contractor.  The contractor shall only cite experiences that have occurred for Federal government customers within the past 36 months prior to the issuance of this solicitation.  The contractor shall provide the required information using the Past Performance Contract Profile template provided in Attachment B.  



Evaluation Criteria



The contractor’s past performance evaluation will examine how the contractor’s past and present experience/performance validates expected performance and customer satisfaction based on the information provided by the contractor’s references and other government sources.  The past performance evaluation will examine the contractor’s Past Performance Contract Profiles and the contractor’s actual experiences/performance in work of similar size, scope, and complexity of efforts and actual results achieved during performance.  



The Government may consider all information available on the contractor’s experience and past performance. This will include information that is in addition to that which is provided by the contractor (i.e., Past Performance Retrieval System). The Government reserves the right to interview the clients identified by the contractor and may interview other clients of whom the Government is aware. 



The Government may share a copy of the Past Performance Profile with the referenced customer to validate the contractor’s report. To facilitate the evaluation of past performance, the contractor shall ensure the accuracy of the information furnished on references (names, addresses, and phone numbers). Failure to provide accurate or complete reference information will have a negative impact on the evaluation of the contractor’s quote and may render it unacceptable.



The Government will use the following adjectival ratings to evaluate the Past Performance factor:



Table 2.3, Adjectival Ratings for Evaluation Factor 3



Technical Evaluation Factor Number 4: Cost/Price



Quote Requirement



The contractor shall provide:  



A completed Cost/Price Table to this RFQ, with dollar values carried out to two decimal places 

An Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI) Mitigation Plan, if applicable

Other Direct Costs (ODCs) and rationale, if applicable

Clear disclosure of indirect costs and rationale, if applicable

A list of subcontractors that will be used in the performance of this task order (including information related to any socio-economic category and the dollar value of the work to be performed)

Additional Government Furnished Property and/or Information required for task performance, if applicable

Any assumptions and/or exceptions made in preparing the Cost/Price Quote, by CLIN, if applicable

Contract, billing and other staff intended to be billed to this task order, if applicable



The Contracting Officer shall reserve the right to conduct a verification of the market reasonableness of the prices offered prior to the execution of a task order. A negative determination (either unreasonably high or unreasonably low) could be a reason for rejection of the quote at the discretion of the Contracting Officer.  The contractor shall not be permitted to revise submissions after a determination that its offered price is unreasonable.



If contractor bills corporate administrative, contract, billing, and other staff to task orders, the contractor shall provide the information in its cost/price quote.  Each contractor shall also clearly disclose its yearly escalation factor, General and Administrative (G&A) and material handling fees, and all other applicable indirect costs.



No profit/fees shall be added to ODCs.



Evaluation Criteria



Each contractor is advised to submit its most competitive offer. The Government will review and evaluate all cost/pricing information contained within the submitted Cost/Price Quote, including discounted prices offered DoS and evaluate burdens placed on other direct costs such as material and travel.  The Government will evaluate all assumptions or exceptions and determine the risk associated with each contractor’s quote. 






QUOTE SUBMISSION FORMAT



General



DoS will validate and evaluate Contractor’s quotes submitted in response to this RFQ. Generally, quotes will be reviewed to ensure: (1) preparation in accordance with instructions of this RFQ; (2) compliance with the requirements specified in the RFQ; and (3) accuracy of price quote.



Format for Technical and Cost/Price Quote



Organization of Files



The contractor quotes shall be organized in the following files:



File I	Technical Quote



Part A:  Management Approach and Technical Capabilities

Section I – 	Discussion of the background, objectives, and work requirements of the SOW

Section II – 	Discussion of proposed methods and techniques for completing each task

Section III – 	Discussion of any anticipated major difficulties and problem areas, along with potential recommended approaches for resolution

Section IV -   	Discussion of major logistical considerations

Section V – 	Project Management Plan



Note:  The Technical Quote shall not contain Cost information of any kind. 



Part B: Organization Experience

Section I – 	Staffing Plan 

Section II - 	Description of Personnel Resources

Section III -	Resumes



Part C: Past Performance



File II	Cost/Price



General Content Requirements



The quotes (Files I and II) shall include a signed and dated cover letter. The cover letter shall include the following:  The RFQ reference number; date the RFQ was issued; the DoS issuing office, location, and contact person; the closing date and time of the RFQ (for submission of quotes); and the name, address (street, city, state, zip) of the contractor submitting the quote.  However, the cover letter(s) shall contain no pricing or technical information.  Any such information provided in the cover letter will not be evaluated.  The cover letter shall also acknowledge amendments, as applicable, to the RFQ.  Please note: The Department of State Seal is intended for use on official government documents only and shall not be used on the vendor quote.



Each page within each file and section shall be numbered using a consistent numbering scheme.  This scheme shall also be used for all supporting documentation, such as charts, figures, diagrams, etc. that are included in each file.  Page numbering schemes that are difficult to track are not acceptable.  The page limitations by file are described below:



File I – Technical Quote



There is a thirty (30) page imposed on File I.



File II – Cost/Price Quote



There is no page limit on File II, Cost/Price. 



Exclusions from the Page Limitations



Following are the exclusions from the page limitations:



File I – Technical Quote



Cover Letter

Table of Contents

Resumes

Past Performance



File II – Cost/Price Quote:



There is no page limit on the submission requirements for File II.  However, contractors shall ensure that the cost/price quote, including the cover letter, does not include any information that should be contained in File I, Technical Quote. Any technical information placed in File II will not be passed on to the Technical Evaluation Team and such technical information will not be evaluated at all.



NOTE: Contractor shall submit Cost/Price Proposal using Attachment D: Vendor Cost Proposal Worksheet (Excel spreadsheet) in addition to any other materials presented.



General Format



Following is the specified format for File I, Technical Quote:



12-point size font shall be used. The font shall be Times New Roman with one exception – Arial may be used for tables, figures, and graphics. The font size for tables and figures, and any other font used in inserts can be no smaller than 8 point; The font size for any graphics as it appears on the printed page can be no smaller than 8 point; margins shall be one-inch at top/bottom and left/right of the page and pages may not be reduced form.  Headers and footers are allowed in the margins and their font size can be no smaller than 10 point.



Following is the specified format for File II, Cost/Price Quote:



12-point size font shall be used. The font shall be Times New Roman. The font size for tables and figures, and any other font of inserts can be no smaller than 8 point; The font size for any graphics as it appears on the printed page can be no smaller than 8 point; and margins shall be one-inch at top/bottom and left/right of the page and pages may not be reduced form.  Headers and footers are allowed in the margins and their font size can be no smaller than 10 point.  Formulas shall be included for evaluation purposes.



Caution: Pages submitted in excess of the page limits enumerated above will not be evaluated. Text and graphics with font size smaller than the minimum specified will not be evaluated. The page limitations apply to the initial offer, revisions and final quote submission (if applicable).



Each file shall contain the following additional items:



Cover:  The cover shall indicate the following:



Title of the Acquisition

Quote Category (Technical, Oral Presentation or Cost/Price)

File Number

RFQ Number

Name and Address of the Contractor

Original or Copy Number



Table of Contents:  Each file shall contain a Table of Contents, which shall provide sufficient detail in order that all the important elements are easily located.  The use of tables is encouraged. No content within these pages will be considered for evaluation.  Contractors shall ensure these document pages are used solely for organization of the quote.



Requirements for Style: Each contractor shall submit a quote that clearly and concisely describes and defines the contractor’s response to the requirements contained in the RFQ.  Use of general or vague statements such as “standard procedures will be used” or “good engineering practices” will not satisfy this requirement. Simply repeating or paraphrasing the RFQ requirements without substantive, meaningful discussion will not be acceptable.  Unnecessary elaboration or presentation beyond that which is sufficient to present a complete and effective quote is not desired and may be construed as an indication of the contractor’s lack of understanding of the requirements or cost consciousness.  Elaborate artwork or visual or other presentation aids is neither necessary nor desired. The desire is for clear succinct pictorials, graphs, etc.



Use of Non-Government Support for Evaluations



Contractor support services may be used to assist the Government in performing technical evaluations of contractors’ quotes submitted in response to the RFQ.  Support contractors, if used, will be authorized access only to those portions of the quote data and discussions that are necessary to enable them to provide advice on specialized matter or on particular problems. Support contractors may participate as technical advisors to a source selection board.  However, in no event shall support contractors participate as voting members of any source selection board.



Clauses, Contract Administration Data and Special Requirements



Refer to Attachment C: Clauses, Contract Administration Data and Special Requirements



RFQ Attachments



The following attachments are applicable to this RFQ:



Attachment A: Statement of Work

Attachment B: Past Performance Contract Profile 

Attachment C: Clauses, Contract Administration Data and Special Requirements

Attachment D: Vendor Cost Proposal Worksheet (Excel spreadsheet)


ATTACHMENT A



Guatemala AFIS Phase II



 Statement of Work



Background



The Government of Guatemala (GOG) has a 3M Cogent Automated Fingerprint Identification System for use within multiple justice sector institutions.  These institutions include the Ministry of Government (MOG), National Civil Police (PNC), National Institute of Forensic Sciences (INACIF), Office of Arms and Munitions Control (DIGECAM), and the Guatemalan Penitentiary System. 



The PNC currently has three AFIS work stations, located at the Gabinete Criminalistico; these are used to upload fingerprint card-based records of persons detained at Guatemalan police stations and from all persons arrested in the last five years. To date they have over 100,000 fingerprint records that need to be uploaded into AFIS.  

 

The GPS has three AFIS work stations located in the Prisons Induction Center in Guatemala City.  These AFIS work stations are PNC work stations that have been dedicated by the MOG for use in conducting a census of the Guatemalan prisons. 

 

INACIF has one AFIS work station that is used to upload and compare latent fingerprint records gathered from crime scenes and Guatemalan morgues.



The 24 Hour Court Judges from Mixco, Villa Nueva, Escuintla, and Sacatepequez each have an AFIS work station used to upload fingerprint card information obtained from their respective detainees. DIGECAM has a program allowing it to access AFIS and to identify any arrest warrants and/or criminal record history which may prohibit gun permit applicants from obtaining a permit.



All persons detained in the interior of Guatemala are fingerprinted and their fingerprint cards are sent to the AFIS for uploading via scanner.  In order to facilitate the electronic capture of the fingerprints of all detainees as well as the immediate biometric search of these subjects, it is necessary to install a number of remote AFIS work stations throughout the interior of Guatemala.  



Additionally, there are a large number of persons entering Guatemala overland from Mexico, Honduras, Belize and El Salvador.  The fingerprint identification of these persons will better aid crime control efforts of all the countries in the region.  



2.0 Responsible Parties within GoG



The GOG personnel responsible for the AFIS will be the Minister of Government advisor and the National Civilian Police Advisor, who will coordinate the training and notify the respective Guatemalan agencies/entities when and where the training is to take place.



3.0 Deliverables and Completion Dates



This Contract shall commence immediately upon award and shall continue for a period not to exceed six months, unless extended by the Contracting Officer as advised by the Contracting Officer’s Representative.  To be considered complete the contractor must finish the full implementation of the system in all the different institutions involved in the project. All work must be duly coordinated through the INL COR with the lead Project Manager from the Government of Guatemala. Specific completion dates for each deliverable are subject to change depending on the actual progress of the project, the extent and impact of Government comments on the draft reports, and the Government’s direction regarding other Task products. The requirements and associated deliverables under this Contract shall be provided within a time frame not to exceed the designated period for the Contract’s performance.  



Unless otherwise extended through a written notification, the institution responsible for the system will have up to ten (10) business days to review each deliverable and to provide verbal and written comments.  If INL receives no comments from the GOG institution during this period the work will be deemed accepted and the contractor shall proceed as planned.  If necessary, the Contractor shall review and incorporate comments or implement requested changes once they have been discussed and clarified with the designated Project Manager, and shall submit a final version of the product no later than ten (10) business days thereafter.



NOTE:  All stated days for product delivery and Government review, unless denoted otherwise, are stated in business days.



4.0 Main Objective – Expanded Access



Expand access to the 3M Cogent AFIS across the GOG’s various Departments to facilitate the biometric identification of criminal subjects and persons of interest in law enforcement and immigration applications through the strategic deployment of fixed and portable AFIS access devices. 



4.1 Specific Objectives

    

4.1.1 Provide fingerprint equipment at land border crossings to allow the positive identification of persons entering and leaving Guatemala.



4.1.2 Provide hand-held fingerprint devices for police operations and prison facilities



4.1.3 Provide fingerprint identification capability for persons visiting the prison population



5.0 General Work Station Specifications



5.1 Remote Data Terminal AFIS Search Specifications



The referenced remote data terminals must, at a minimum, be able to acquire fingerprint and palm images (excluding hand held devices) and launch searches of the AFIS for the following transaction types:



Ten print/Ten print

Latent print/Ten print

Ten print/Latent print

Latent print/Latent print

Palm print/Palm print

Latent palm/Palm Print

Palm print/Latent palm

Latent palm/Latent palm

Non-retained criminal ten print query 

AFIS searchable by biometric or biographic data



5.2 Remote Data Terminal Components 



Computer processing unit

21 inch flat screen monitor

FBI certified flatbed card scanner

FBI certified ten print livescan device

FBI certified palm print livescan device (may be combined with ten print scanner)

FBI certified printer

10 mega-pixel digital camera with A/C power supply

Universal Power Supply



5.3 Remote Data Terminal Capabilities



The remote data terminal capabilities will include the following:



Spanish language screens

Supports both card scan and live scan fingerprint acquisition

Ten print, palm print, and latent print image acquisition and transaction processing		

Minimum of 20 user defined fields

Capable of receiving AFIS responses

Requires user authentication with an inactivity timeout

 

6.0 Fingerprint Record Specifications



The fingerprint images and record format must conform to both:



The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Electronic Fingerprint Transmission Specification (EFTS) V7.1 at a minimum

 



The Interpol Implementation of the ANSI-NIST Specification, ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007, v5.0 at a minimum. http://www.nist.gov/itl/iad/ig/ansi_standard.cfm





7.0 Search Parameters



Unless specified otherwise, each remote data terminal should be capable of searching fingerprint impressions, latent fingerprint and palm prints, within the following search parameters:	



10 fingerprint/10 fingerprint	

10 fingerprint/unresolved latent fingerprint 

Latent fingerprint/10 fingerprint 

Latent fingerprint/ Latent fingerprints unresolved 

Palm prints/ Latent palm prints no resolved 

Palm prints/ Palm prints

Latent palm prints/ palm prints	

Latent palm prints/ Latent palm prints non- resolved

Capability to conduct biometric and biographical information searches.	



 

8.0 Work Station and Fingerprint Acquisition Specifications



8.1 Remote Data Entry / Query terminal 



The remote data entry/query terminal will consist of a standard CPU that supports the submission of ten print fingerprint, palm print, and latent transactions to the AFIS and receipt of query responses from the AFIS.  Each remote terminal will require user authentication and will support an inactivity timeout capability.  Each remote data terminal will be outfitted with a flatbed card scan device and a live scan device, both of which are FBI certified.  Each remote data terminal will have a digital camera (ten mega pixel minimum) with an AC power adapter.  Each remote data terminal will have an FBI certified printer.  Each remote data terminal will have its own Universal Power Supply that is capable of powering the CPU and the supporting peripheral equipment.   

 

8.2 Portable Remote Data Terminal



The portable remote data terminal will consist of a ruggedized laptop that is capable of formatting and submitting single print and ten print fingerprint and latent transactions to the AFIS.  Each portable remote data terminal will require user authentication and will support an inactivity timeout capability.  Each laptop will be outfitted with a live scan device that is capable of acquiring single finger and ten print fingerprint images.  Each laptop will have a digital camera (ten mega pixel minimum) with an AC power adapter.  Each laptop suite will have a surge protector power strip capable of supporting the laptop and the supporting peripheral equipment.  Each portable remote data terminal suite will include a carrying case capable of storing the laptop, live scan device, camera, telecommunications cables, and power strip.



The contractor shall provide a per unit price for the optional provision of similarly equipped, additional remote and portable data terminals. 



8.3 Handheld fingerprint identification device



The handheld fingerprint identification device will be capable of capturing forensic quality fingerprints and high resolution images quickly and easily for in-the-field identifications or enrollment.  These devices should be capable of supporting multiple forms of network card interfaces and store more than 50,000 fingerprint templates while having an on-device fingerprint matching capability.  The handheld fingerprint devices must be able to connect to the central AFIS via wireless (cellular or satellite) and hard-wired telecommunications protocols.   



9.0 Installation Locations for Remote Data Entry/Query Terminals

9.1	Remote Data Entry Terminals



The contractor will install 22 remote data Entry/query terminals (with scanner and live scan), as defined below:



National Civilian Police:

. 

Precinct of Alta Verapaz Department

Precinct of El Progreso Department

Precinct of  Izabal Department

Precinct of Quetzaltenango Department

Precinct of San Marcos Department

Precinct of Baja Verapáz Department

Precinct of Jalapa Department

Precinct of Quiché Department

Precinct of Santa Rosa Department

Precinct of Totonicapán Department

Precinct of Chimaltenango Department

Precinct of Jutiapa Department

Precinct of Retalhuleu Department

Precinct of Sololá Department

Precinct of Zacapa Department

Precinct of Chiquimula Department

Precinct of Huehuetenango Department

Precinct of Petén Department.

Precinct of Suchitepéquez Department

PNC Sub Station, La Aurora Airport, zone 13

Precinct of Tecun Uman Department 

Precinct of Malacatan Department



Remote data entry terminals configured for single finger live scan identification to be installed in the video conference hearing rooms at:



Centro de Detención Preventivo Para Hombres zona 18  

Centro de Detención Fraijanes 1 



9.2 Portable Remote Data Terminal



	The contractor will deliver 6 Portable Remote Data Terminals with live scan devices for use by PANDA in Quetzaltenango, Cobán, Jalapa, Petén and the metropolitan area.

     

          	9.3 Handheld Devices



	The contractor will deliver 35 handheld devices to be located as follows:



10  for Male Induction Center zone 18 (approx.3200 prisoners)

3  for Female Induction Center zone 18 (approx.750 prisoners)

3  for Fraijanes I (approx. 114 prisoners)

3 for Fraijanes II (approx. 117 prisoners)

8 for Pavoncito (approx. 806 prisoners)

5  for Granja Pavón (approx. 1348 prisoners)

3 for COF (Female Orientation Center, approx. 190 prisoners)

10.0 Telecommunications network capability



The institutions involved in this project have a communications system of "dedicated links".   For the project to be effective it will require the Contractor to examine the existing communications system to determine their capability to function at a level allowing the optimal running of the remote stations and their connectivity with the AFIS central server.  If the existing “dedicated links” are not capable of efficiently supporting the AFIS requirements, the Contractor shall propose alternative, secure telecommunication options and the respective cost to implement these solutions.



The GOG will assume the costs of the telecommunications solution system selected by the Contractor and promptly upgrade system capacity to connect and enable the data entry terminals and hand held devices delivered through this contract.



11.0 Overall Infrastructure

The contractor shall specify the minimum requirements for the successful operation of the hardware and software as it pertains to physical conditions, network and communication capabilities. If the infrastructure is not adequate, it will be the sole responsibility of the GOG to comply with conditions established by the contractor prior to the installation of the equipment.  Any such changes to infrastructure are outside the scope of this RFQ.  

12.0 System Testing

The contractor will provide a written formal testing plan for designated Project Managers of the INL-Guatemala and the GOG to verify the functionality of all work stations delivered under this contract before final acceptance of project.  The contractor shall implement the testing phase to assure component functionality prior to the beginning of system operations training. The contractor is must coordinate with the INL COR so that s/he may notify the Designated personnel from the Ministry of Government (PNC, Prison System), and the FBI at least 14 days prior to the starting date of the testing phase. 

13.0 System Training



The Contractor shall provide one time user training to all personnel who have been selected to participate in this project and are assigned to operate and utilize the fingerprint acquisition equipment being delivered through this SOW.  Course instruction will be coordinated with the program Manager designated by the GOG to ensure maximum attendance.  Training for the “Remote Data Entry Terminals” maximum of 66 staff, “Portable Data Entry Terminal” maximum of 18 staff and “Hand Held Devices” maximum of 105 staff, will be conducted at the National Civil Police (PNC) training academy in Guatemala City zone 6.  This training shall include but is not limited to the following: 



Scanning, entry, and search of new records by biometric and biographic data

Set-up and use of portable remote data terminals

Set-up and use of handheld remote data terminals 



The contractor should also provide refresher training for all equipment one time a year for a period of two years.  All training will include hands-on exercises in addition to class room training.



The contractor will provide a user manual for each type of equipment supplied for each student attending training to the INL COR prior to the initiation of each training class for this project.



All training, including the training manuals will be provided in Spanish and English.



14.0 System Documentation



The Contractor shall provide written documentation for the design, operation, administration, and maintenance of the work stations and hand held devices delivered through this contract.  



The Contractor shall provide a User’s Training Manual for all products delivered in this solicitation that describes the functions of and how to use the equipment at the time of equipment delivery.



All documentation shall be provided in English and Spanish.  



15.0 Hardware and software copy rights



All software developed and/or purchased in support of this contract shall become the property of the Government of Guatemala, and shall be delivered to the Government upon completion of the installation.



All hardware purchased in support of this contract shall become the property of the Government of Guatemala, and shall be delivered to the Government upon request.



16. Post-delivery AFIS Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Support



The Contractor shall provide technical and operational support to the OIJ regarding the use

and operation of the AFIS for the first year after the successful delivery of all contract

deliverables.  This support can be augmented by any manufacturer warranty that applies to the hardware and software used in the project. The support program shall include all updates to the remote data terminals operating system, proprietary source code, and all applicable hardware and software service patches.



17.0 Personnel



17.1 Key Personnel:  The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following Key Personnel which shall be approved by the COR:



Project Manager 



The Contractor must provide the name and resume of the Project Manager (key personnel) to the Contracting Officer and COR in the quote.



17.2 Subject Matter Experts/Instructors



Subject matter experts and instructors identified must have required experience and skills to teach the subject matter.  Required skills and qualifications for course development personnel include specialized training and demonstrated expertise in subject matter.



The COR reserves the right to review all resumes of the Subject Matter experts/Instructors the contractor proposes.  



A project manager will be designated by authority of the INL Contracting Officer(s) to monitor all technical aspects and assist in administering the contract.  The types of actions within the purview of the project manager's authority are to assure that the Contractor performs the technical requirements of the contract; to maintain both written and oral communications with the Contractor concerning the aspects of the contract within his purview; to monitor the Contractor's performance under the contract and notify the Contractor and Contracting Officer of any deficiencies observed.  For the purposes of this contract, the project manager will be the office director or the office director's designee for each respective INL office in which the Contractor personnel work. 



17.3 Substitutes



All proposed substitutes shall meet or exceed the qualifications of the person to be replaced.  The Contracting Officer shall be notified in writing of any proposed substitution at least ten days, in advance of the proposed substitution. Such notification shall include:  



An explanation of the circumstances necessitating the substitution; 



A complete resume of the proposed substitute; and 



Any other information requested by the Contracting Officer or COR which enables the Government to judge whether or not the Contractor is maintaining the same high quality of personnel that provided the basis for award.  The Government will respond with a determination within 5 business days after notification of the proposed substitution.  



All key personnel performing under this contract shall have experience with the practical application of, implementation of, and utilization of federal government or private industry policies, procedures, standards, and practices for cable plant and network integration, in relation to the SOW requirements provided herein.  





18. Optional Post-delivery Equipment Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Support



The Contractor shall provide pricing for the optional purchase of O&M support for the remote data terminals and hand held remote data terminals described in this SOW. The Contractor shall provide annual costing for technical and operational support for up to four optional years. This support is in addition to any manufacturer warranty that applies to the hardware and software used in the project.



19.0 Points of Contact



DoS Contracting Specialist:

			

			Carl Henriksen

		Contracting Specialist 

		Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs

		Office of Resource Management

		Phone:  (301) 985-8632 ext. 4157

		

		Email:  



Alternate DoS Contracting Specialist:

			

			Kiazan Moneypenny

		Contracting Specialist 

		Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs

		Office of Resource Management

		Phone:  202-776-8798

		

		Email:  





DoS Contracting Officer:	



		Mary Pat Hayes-Crow

		Contracting Officers Representative/Contracting Officer 

		Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs

	




ATTACHMENT B



PAST PERFORMANCE CONTRACT PROFILE




 ATTACHMENT C



 

Contract CLAUSES, ADMINISTRATION DATA AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS



Clauses



Clauses Incorporated by Reference



Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clauses



52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)

52.223-6 Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001)

52.237-3 Continuity of Services

52.243-1 Changes – Fixed Price (Aug 1981) 

52.246-25 Limitation of Liability – Services (Feb 1997)



Department Of State Acquisition Regulations (DOSAR) Clauses



652.237-72 Observance Of Legal Holidays And Administrative Leave (Apr 2004)



FAR And DOSAR Clauses Incorporated In Full Text



52.227-14  Rights in Data—General. 

As prescribed in (b)(1), insert the following clause with any appropriate alternates: 

Rights in Data—General (Dec 2007) 

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Computer database” or “database means” a collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. 

“Computer software”— 

(1) Means 

(i) Computer programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations; and 

(ii) Recorded information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. 

(2) Does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. 

“Computer software documentation” means owner’s manuals, user’s manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. 

“Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 

“Form, fit, and function data” means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, and data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements. For computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithms, processes, formulas, and flow charts of the software. 

“Limited rights” means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of paragraph (g) (3) if included in this clause. 

“Limited rights data” means data, other than computer software, that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, to the extent that such data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, including minor modifications. 

“Restricted computer software” means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret, is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, or is copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of the computer software. 

“Restricted rights,” as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software. 

“Technical data” means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software documentation). This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature that is included in computer databases (See ). 

“Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 

(b) Allocation of rights. 

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government shall have unlimited rights in— 

(i) Data first produced in the performance of this contract; 

(ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this contract; 

(iii) Data delivered under this contract (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this contract; and 

(iv) All other data delivered under this contract unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause. 

(2) The Contractor shall have the right to— 

(i) Assert copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract to the extent provided in paragraph (c) (1) of this clause; 

(ii) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause; 

(iii) Substantiate the use of, add, or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and 

(iv) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause. 

(c) Copyright— 

(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(i) Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor may, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, assert copyright in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract and published in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings, or similar works. The prior, express written permission of the Contracting Officer is required to assert copyright in all other data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(ii) When authorized to assert copyright to the data, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notices of , and an acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number). 

(iii) For data other than computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly by or on behalf of the Government. For computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted computer software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly (but not to distribute copies to the public) by or on behalf of the Government. 

(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract unless the Contractor— 

(i) Identifies the data; and 

(ii) Grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause or, if such data are restricted computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (g)(4) of this clause (if included in this contract) or as otherwise provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this contract. 

(3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government will not remove any authorized copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and will include such notices on all reproductions of the data. 

(d) Release, publication, and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except— 

(1) As prohibited by Federal law or regulation (e.g., export control or national security laws or regulations); 

(2) As expressly set forth in this contract; or 

(3) If the Contractor receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this contract that contain restrictive markings, the Contractor shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless specifically authorized otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer. 

52.227-15  Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. 

As prescribed in (c), insert the following provision: 

Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software (Dec 2007) 

(a) This solicitation sets forth the Government’s known delivery requirements for data (as defined in the clause at , Rights in Data—General). Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements clause at , if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting contract will be subject to the Rights in Data—General clause at  included in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data instead. The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices, as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at the Contractor’s facility. 

(b) By completing the remainder of this paragraph, the offeror represents that it has reviewed the requirements for the delivery of technical data or computer software and states [offeror check appropriate block]— 

[  ] (1) None of the data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software; or 

[  ] (2) Data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software and are identified as follows: ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

(c) Any identification of limited rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror’s response is not determinative of the status of the data should a contract be awarded to the offeror. 

(End of provision) 

52.227-16  Additional Data Requirements. 

As prescribed in (d), insert the following clause: 

Additional Data Requirements (June 1987) 

(a) In addition to the data (as defined in the clause at , Rights in Data—General clause or other equivalent included in this contract) specified elsewhere in this contract to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at any time during contract performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this contract. 

(b) The Rights in Data—General clause or other equivalent included in this contract is applicable to all data order1ed under this Additional Data Requirements clause. Nothing contained in this clause shall require the Contractor to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by the Rights in Data—General or other equivalent clause of this contract, or data which are specifically identified in this contract as not subject to this clause. 

(c) When data are to be delivered under this clause, the Contractor will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery. 

(d) The Contracting Officer may release the Contractor from the requirements of this clause for specifically identified data items at any time during the 3-year period set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. 

52.227-17 Rights in Data—Special Works (Dec 2007) 

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 

“Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 

(b) Allocation of Rights. 

(1) The Government shall have— 

(i) Unlimited rights in all data delivered under this contract, and in all data first produced in the performance of this contract, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause. 

(ii) The right to limit assertion of copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract, and to obtain assignment of copyright in that data, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(iii) The right to limit the release and use of certain data in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. 

(2) The Contractor shall have, to the extent permission is granted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, the right to assert claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(c) Copyright— 

(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(i) The Contractor shall not assert or authorize others to assert any claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this contract without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer. When copyright is asserted, the Contractor shall affix the appropriate copyright notice of 7 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number) to the data when delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. The Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all delivered data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. 

(ii) If the Government desires to obtain copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract and permission has not been granted as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall direct the Contractor to assign (with or without registration), or obtain the assignment of, the copyright to the Government or its designated assignee. 

(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract and that contain the copyright notice of , unless the Contractor identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(d) Release and use restrictions. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced in the performance of this contract, nor authorize others to do so, without written permission of the Contracting Officer. 

(e) Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication, or use of any data furnished under this contract; or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor’s consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and these provisions do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies. 

(End of clause) 



52.227-19 Commercial Computer Software License. 

As prescribed in (g), insert the following clause: 

Commercial Computer Software License (Dec 2007) 

(a) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions contained in the Contractor’s standard commercial license or lease agreement, the Contractor agrees that the Government will have the rights that are set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause to use, duplicate or disclose any commercial computer software delivered under this contract. The terms and provisions of this contract shall comply with Federal laws and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. 

(b)(1) The commercial computer software delivered under this contract may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause or as expressly stated otherwise in this contract. 

(2) The commercial computer software may be— 

(i) Used or copied for use with the computer(s) for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which the computer(s) may be transferred; 

(ii) Used or copied for use with a backup computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative; 

(iii) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes; 

(iv) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that the modified, adapted, or combined portions of the derivative software incorporating any of the delivered, commercial computer software shall be subject to same restrictions set forth in this contract; 

(v) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by support service Contractors or their subcontractors, subject to the same restrictions set forth in this contract; and 

(vi) Used or copied for use with a replacement computer. 

(3) If the commercial computer software is otherwise available without disclosure restrictions, the Contractor licenses it to the Government without disclosure restrictions. 

(c) The Contractor shall affix a notice substantially as follows to any commercial computer software delivered under this contract: 

Notice-Notwithstanding any other lease or license agreement that may pertain to, or accompany the delivery of, this computer software, the rights of the Government regarding its use, reproduction and disclosure are as set forth in Government Contract No.___________________________. 



52.227-23  Rights to Proposal Data (Technical). 

As prescribed in (l), insert the following clause: 

Rights to Proposal Data (Technical) (June 1987) 

Except for data contained on pages _____, it is agreed that as a condition of award of this contract, and notwithstanding the conditions of any notice appearing thereon, the Government shall have unlimited rights (as defined in the “Rights in Data—General” clause contained in this contract) in and to the technical data contained in the quote dated ____________, upon which this contract is based. 

(End of clause

Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) 

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Coercion” means— 

(1) Threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; 

(2) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or 

(3) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. 

“Commercial sex act” means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person. 

“Debt bondage” means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of his or her personal services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined. 

“Employee” means an employee of the Contractor directly engaged in the performance of work under the contract who has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance. 

“Forced Labor” means knowingly providing or obtaining the labor or services of a person— 

(1) By threats of serious harm to, or physical restraint against, that person or another person; 

(2) By means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the person to believe that, if the person did not perform such labor or services, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or 

(3) By means of the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process. 

“Involuntary servitude” includes a condition of servitude induced by means of— 

(1) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such conditions, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or 

(2) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. 

“Severe forms of trafficking in persons” means— 

(1) Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or 

(2) The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery. 

“Sex trafficking” means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act. 

(b) Policy. The United States Government has adopted a zero tolerance policy regarding trafficking in persons. Contractors and contractor employees shall not— 

(1) Engage in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract; 

(2) Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract; or 

(3) Use forced labor in the performance of the contract. 

(c) Contractor requirements. The Contractor shall— 

(1) Notify its employees of— 

(i) The United States Government’s zero tolerance policy described in paragraph (b) of this clause; and 

(ii) The actions that will be taken against employees for violations of this policy. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, removal from the contract, reduction in benefits, or termination of employment; and 

(2) Take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees or subcontractors that violate the policy in paragraph (b) of this clause. 

(d) Notification. The Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer immediately of— 

(1) Any information it receives from any source (including host country law enforcement) that alleges a Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee has engaged in conduct that violates this policy; and 

(2) Any actions taken against Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontractor employees pursuant to this clause. 

(e) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor’s failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), or (f) of this clause may result in— 

(1) Requiring the Contractor to remove a Contractor employee or employees from the performance of the contract; 

(2) Requiring the Contractor to terminate a subcontract; 

(3) Suspension of contract payments; 

(4) Loss of award fee, consistent with the award fee plan, for the performance period in which the Government determined Contractor non-compliance; 

(5) Termination of the contract for default or cause, in accordance with the termination clause of this contract; or 

(6) Suspension or debarment. 

(f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts. 

(g) Mitigating Factor. The Contracting Officer may consider whether the Contractor had a Trafficking in Persons awareness program at the time of the violation as a mitigating factor when determining remedies. Additional information about Trafficking in Persons and examples of awareness programs can be found at the website for the Department of State’s Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at http://www.state.gov/g/tip. 

(End of clause) 

DOSAR 652.225-70 Arab League Boycott Of Israel (Aug 1999)



(a) Definitions. As used in this provision:



“Foreign person” means any person other than a United States person as defined below.



“United States person” means any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States and employed by other than a United States person), any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern), and any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern which is controlled in fact by such domestic concern, as provided under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.



(b) Certification. By submitting this offer, the offeror certifies that it is not:



(1) Taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the boycott of Israel by Arab League countries, which Section 8(a) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2407(a)) prohibits a United States person from taking; or,



(2) Discriminating in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion.



(End of provision)



DOSAR 652-243-70 – Notices (Aug 1999)



Any notice or request relating to this task order given by either party to the other shall be in writing.  Said notice or request shall be mailed or delivered by hand to the other party at the address provided in the schedule of the task order.  All modifications to the task order must be made in writing by the contracting officer.



(End of clause)



Additional Terms



Order of Precedence



The following order of precedence applies (1) award, (2) Statement of Work (3) contractor quote/proposal.



Advertising of Award



The contractor shall not allow the existence of this task order or the names, phone numbers, etc. of Government employees involved in this task order, to be used for publicity or advertising purposes.  Further, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance and/or film concerning any aspect of work performed under this task order shall be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the contracting officer.



Department Of State Invoice Instructions (11/08)



Invoice submission is only via the Office of Claims’ Commercial Claims Operations fax server, toll-free number: 866-483-3436, unless otherwise indicated. Each invoice must be transmitted separately.



To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include the following information and/or attached documentation:



Name and Address of the Contractor

Dun and Bradstreet Universal Number System (DUNS)

Date of Invoice

Unique Vendor Invoice Number

Remittance Contact Information

Shipping Terms, Ship to Address

Payment Terms

Total Quantity of Items

Total Invoice Amount

Requisition Number, Contract Number and Order/Award Number, with modification number, if applicable.

Order line item number and information (see below instructions)



The name and DUNS of the contractor on the invoice must match the information indicated on the order/award for proper payment.



IMPORTANT: For proper payment, the invoice must detail products and/or services delivered on a line item basis in direct accordance with the corresponding order/award/contract. Each line item must contain the following information:



Description of the services rendered for each line item

Line Item Quantity

Line Item Unit Price

Total Line Item Invoicing Amount

Delivery Date

Contract Line Item Number (CLIN)

Order/Award Line Item Number if invoicing against a task or delivery order or Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA)



Please note that many task or delivery orders against Department of State or GSA contracts or blanket purchase agreements may have a separate and unique line item number in addition to the umbrella Contract Line Item Number (CLIN). The order line item number as well as the umbrella award CLIN must be referenced at each invoice line item level in such cases.



All payments to domestic claims will be disbursed by electronic funds transfer EFT. Vendors who are registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) should verify and re-confirm their financial information in the database prior to invoicing. Vendors who wish to request a waiver of CCR or payment by check must submit their justification to their assigned contracting officer for consideration at least 30 days prior to billing.  For vendors who are granted an EFT exception, the payment address on the invoice must match the remittance address in the vendor record cited in the award.



Additional correspondence should be addressed to:



Name:				U.S. Department of State

				Global Financial Services

				Attn: Office of Claims (RM/GFS/F/C)

				Charleston Financial Service Center



Mailing Address:		Post Office Box 150008

				Charleston, SC 29415-5008



Telephone Numbers:		Director’s Secretary Voice: 843-202-3761

				Fax: 843-746-0749

				Official Office Hours: 8:00 am – 5:00 pm



To request Payment Status on a Past Due Invoice contact: 



Office Name:			Office of Claims Customer Service

Email:				

Phone:				877-704-9473 Toll Free



Person to Contact:		Supervisor, Vendor Claims

Email:				

Phone:				843-202-3881





(End of clause)

 



Non-Payment for Unauthorized Work



No payments will be made for any unauthorized supplies or services, or for any unauthorized changes to the work specified herein.  This includes any services performed by the contractor of its own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed contracting officer.  Only a duly appointed contracting officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and/or conditions of any awarded task/delivery order.



Defense Base Act (DBA) Insurance

The Defense Base Act applies to this procurement for any work performed overseas.  See FAR Clause 52.228-3 in Section 7.0 below.  The Labor Department’s website has a list of Authorized Insurance Carriers for DBA at   The Contractor shall get at least three quotes from the authorized insurance carriers’ list to get the best, reasonable, and lowest-price premium rates.



The Contractor will be reimbursed for the amount paid to the contracted insurance carrier.  No profit, fee or G&A will be allowed on DBA.  Compensation is defined as direct salary, and the cost of DBA insurance shall be based on the total number of labor hours.  



Contractor shall be paid the invoiced amount of DBA, and will include the receipt of DBA insurance payment with the invoice submission.  DBA must also be purchased for the labor hours comprising any follow on work established through a modification



 (End of provision)



Organizational Conflict Of Interest - Special Clause (02/96)



(a)  Purpose.  The primary purpose of this clause is to aid in ensuring that the contractor (1) is not biased because of its past, present, or currently planned interests (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) which relate to the work under this task order, and (2) does not obtain any unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of its performance of this task order.



(b)  Scope.  The restrictions described herein shall apply to performance or participation by the contractor and any of its affiliates or their successors in interest (hereinafter collectively referred to as "contractor") in the activities covered by this clause as a prime contractor, subcontractor, co-sponsor, joint venturer, consultant, or in any similar capacity.



	(1)  Technical consulting and management support services.



		(i)  The contractor shall be ineligible to participate in any capacity in Department contracts, subcontracts, or quotes therefor (solicited or unsolicited) which stem directly from the contractor's performance of work under this task order for a period of three years after completion of this task order.  Furthermore, unless so directed in writing by the contracting officer, the contractor shall not perform any technical consulting or management support services work under this task order on or relating to any of its products or services or the products or services of another firm if the contractor is or has been substantially involved in their development or marketing.

		(ii)  If the contractor under this task order prepares a complete or essentially complete statement of work or specifications to be used in a competitive acquisition, the contractor shall be ineligible to participate in any capacity in any contractual effort which is based on such statement of work or specifications for a period of three years after completion of this task order.  The contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or specifications unless so directed in writing by the contracting officer, in which case the restriction in this subparagraph shall not apply.



	(2)  Access to and use of information.



		(i)  If the contractor, in the performance of this task order, obtains access to information such as Department plans, policies, reports, studies, financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579), or data which has not been released or otherwise made available to the public; the contractor agrees that without prior written approval from the contracting officer it shall not:  (a) use such information for any private purpose unless the information has been released or otherwise made available to the public; (b) compete for work for the Department based on such information for a period of six months after either the completion of this task order or until such information is released or otherwise made available to the public, whichever occurs first; (c) submit an unsolicited quote to the Government which is based on such information until one year after such information is released or otherwise made available to the public; or (d) release such information unless such information has previously been released or otherwise made available to the public by the Department.

		(ii)  In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this task order, it shall protect this information from unauthorized use or disclosure for as long as it remains proprietary and refrain from using the information for any purpose other than that for which it was furnished.

		(iii)  The contractor shall have, subject to patent, data, and security provisions of this task order; the right to use technical data it first produces under this task order.



(c)  Disclosure after award.  (1) The contractor agrees that if an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest is discovered after award, the contractor will make a full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer.  This disclosure shall include a description of actions which the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid or mitigate the actual or potential conflict.



	(2)  If the contractor was aware of a potential organizational conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the contracting officer, the Government may terminate the task order for default.



(d)  Subcontracts.  The contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts of any tier which involve performance or work of the type specified in subparagraph (b)(1) of this clause or access to information of the type covered in subparagraph (b)(2) of this clause.  The contractor shall obtain for the Department an Organizational Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement or Representation from each intended subcontractor or consultant.  The contractor shall not enter into any subcontract nor engage any consultant unless the contracting officer shall have first notified the contractor that there is little or no likelihood that an organizational conflict of interest exists or that despite the existence of a conflict of interest the award is in the best interest of the Government.



(e)  Remedies.  For breach of any of the above restrictions or for nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant facts required to be disclosed concerning this task order, the Government may terminate the task order for default, disqualify the contractor for subsequent related contractual efforts and pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this task order.



(f)  Waiver.  Requests for waiver under this clause shall be directed in writing to the contracting officer and shall include a full description of the requested waiver and the reasons in support thereof.  If it is determined to be in the best interests of the Government, the contracting officer shall grant such a waiver in writing.



Modifications.  Prior to any task order modification (except for the exercise of options) which (1) modifies the statement of work to add new work, (2) significantly increases the period of performance, or (3) changes the parties to the task order, the contractor shall submit a current Organizational Conflict of Interest Certification and Disclosure.



Safeguarding Of Information



The contractor and its employees shall exercise the utmost discretion in regard to all matters relating to their duties and functions.  They shall not communicate to any person any information known to them by reason of their performance of services under any awarded task/delivery order which has not been made public, except in the necessary performance of their duties or upon written authorization of the contracting officer.  All documents and records (including photographs) generated during the performance of work under this task order and any awarded task/delivery order shall be for the sole use of and become the exclusive property of the U.S. Government.  Furthermore, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance, film or photograph concerning any aspect of work performed under any awarded task/delivery order shall be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the contracting officer.  These obligations do not cease upon the expiration or termination of any awarded task/delivery order.  The contractor shall include the substance of this provision in all contracts of employment and in all subcontracts hereunder.



Smoke-Free Workplace Notice



The Department of State has been designated a smoke-free workplace.

Definitions.  “Smoking” means a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other tobacco product.  “Smoking Areas” means those designated exterior spaces where the smoking of tobacco products is permitted.

Applicability.  The Smoke-Free Workplace policy applies to all occupants of the Main State Complex; as well as all Department of State occupied space in other domestic buildings, whether owned, rented or leased, and to all Department of State owned, rented, or leased vehicles.

Policy.  It is the policy of the Department of State to promote a healthy environment.  Accordingly, the Department has adopted a policy prohibiting smoking in the interior of all domestic buildings and facilities effective August 1, 1993.



Terrorist Financing



U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. law prohibit transactions with, and the provision of resources and support to, individuals and organizations associated with terrorism.  It is the legal responsibility of the contractor, and its subcontractors, to ensure compliance with these Executive Orders and laws.

 (End of clause) 





Evaluation Factor 1:

Management Approach and Technical Capabilities 

Evaluation Factor 1:

Management Approach and Technical Capabilities 

Rating

Description

Outstanding

Demonstrates excellent understanding of requirements; recognizes critical program elements and challenges; offers industry best practices and proactive and innovative solutions; significantly exceeds performance/capability standards; shows exceptional technical expertise/strengths that will significantly benefit the Government; has no deficiencies or weaknesses.

Acceptable

Demonstrates adequate understanding of requirements; meets performance/capability standards; has few or no strengths that will benefit the Government; has no significant weaknesses and no deficiencies.

Marginal

Demonstrates shallow understanding of requirements; does not fully meet performance/capability standards; has one or more major weakness or deficiency which is/are correctable without major changes to the quote.

Unacceptable

Demonstrates a lack of understanding of requirements; fails to meet performance/capability standards; has a major weakness or deficiencies which cannot be corrected without major changes to the quote.



Evaluation Factor 2:

Organization Experience

Evaluation Factor 2:

Organization Experience

Rating

Description

Outstanding

Proposed key personnel are highly qualified (i.e., Masters Degree and program/project management professional certifications are desired but not required) and have verifiable relevant experience of five (5) or more years in a program management office.  The Staffing Plan provides a well-structured and efficient organization with appropriate type and quality of skill sets; essentially no doubt exists that the contractor has the key personnel resources to successfully perform the required effort.

Acceptable

Proposed key personnel are highly qualified (i.e., Bachelors Degree and program/project management professional certifications are desired but not required) and have a history of verifiable experience working in a program management office.  The Staffing Plan provides an adequate staffing organization to accomplish the tasks; little doubt exists that the contractor has the key personnel resources to successfully perform the required effort.

Marginal

Some proposed key personnel do not meet the criteria for “Acceptable”. Based on the contractor’s proposed key personnel, some doubt exists that the contractor has the personnel resources to successfully perform the required effort.

Unacceptable

The majority of proposed key personnel do not meet the criteria for “Marginal” and resumes demonstrate inappropriate or inapplicable qualifications for the positions proposed. Based on the contractor’s proposed key personnel, substantial or extreme doubt exists that the contractor will successfully perform the required effort.



Evaluation Factor 3:

Past Performance 

Evaluation Factor 3:

Past Performance 

Rating

Description

Confidence

The Offeror’s past performance record indicates the Offeror can successfully provide a product that meets our requirement.  Some Government intervention is expected to be required in obtaining the required product.

Unknown Confidence

Contractor provides the required two (2) Past Performance Contract Profiles that are directly relevant to the required work and clearly cover the majority of the required work. Based on the contractor’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, little doubt exists that the contractor will successfully perform the required effort.

No Confidence

Does not meet the criteria for acceptable. Based on the contractor’s past experience and customer past performance evaluations, some doubt exists that the contractor will successfully perform the required effort. 



Past Performance Profile – Contract Number 

Past Performance Profile – Contract Number 

Contractor:  

Contractor:  

Performed as Prime or Subcontractor:

Performed as Prime or Subcontractor:

Federal Agency Supported:

Federal Agency Supported:

Points of Contact

Points of Contact

Contractual:                                         

Name:                                   

Organization: 

Address:

Telephone Number:

FAX Number:

Email Address:

COR/COTR:

Name:

Organization:

Address:

Telephone Number:

FAX Number:

Email Address:

Project Location(s) [State or Country]:

Project Location(s) [State or Country]:

Number of Full-Time Project Personnel:

Number of Full-Time Project Personnel:

Actual Annual Contract Dollars (not Contract Ceiling Value):

Original Annual Contract Value:

Current Annual Contract Value:

Explanation of Variance if applicable:

Actual Annual Contract Dollars (not Contract Ceiling Value):

Original Annual Contract Value:

Current Annual Contract Value:

Explanation of Variance if applicable:

Period of Performance:

Period of Performance:

Type of Award (Competitive, Sole-Source, Performance Based, etc):

Type of Award (Competitive, Sole-Source, Performance Based, etc):

Contract Type (Firm Fixed Price, Time and Materials, Cost Plus, etc.):

Contract Type (Firm Fixed Price, Time and Materials, Cost Plus, etc.):

Descriptions of Work Performed, including Scope and Complexity of the Effort:











Descriptions of Work Performed, including Scope and Complexity of the Effort:











Technical, Cost or Schedule Problems Encountered and Resolution:









Technical, Cost or Schedule Problems Encountered and Resolution:









Innovative Solution Applied, Cost-Savings Realized or Recognition Received:









Innovative Solution Applied, Cost-Savings Realized or Recognition Received:









Actual Results Achieved against Performance Standards:

  





Actual Results Achieved against Performance Standards:

  




CLIN RFQ ¶ # CLIN RFQ ¶ # Description Units Unit Cost Extended Cost Comment
0001 0001 Required Base System
0001A 7.0 Search Parameters
0001A 1 0001B 9.1 Remote Data Entry/Query terminals
0001B 2 0001C 9.2 Portable Remote Data Terminals
0001D 9.3 Handheld Devices
0001C 3 0001E 10.0 Telecommunications network capability
0001D 4 0001F 11.0 Overall Infrastructure
0001E 5 0001G 12.0 System Testing
0001F 6 0001H 13.0 System Training
0001G 7 0001J 14.0 System Documentation
0001K 15.0 Hardware and software copy rights
0001L 16.0 Post-delivery AFIS Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Support
Base System Price
Optional Pricing
0002 8 0002 18.0 Optional Year 1 Post-delivery Equipment O&M Support
0003 18.0 Optional Year 2 Post-delivery Equipment O&M Support
0004 18.0 Optional Year 3 Post-delivery Equipment O&M Support
0005 18.0 Optional Year 4 Post-delivery Equipment O&M Support
Base and All Options Price
