
Prescription Data Technical Support Services – Questions & Answers


Question 1:  Please provide the incumbent information for this opportunity: contractor’s name, contract number, total value, award date and
expiration date. RESPONSE: NDCHealth Corporation (Relay Health), Contract 200-2009-M-29001, $183,300.00, September 30, 2009 (6 month extension
to March 31, 2010 IAW FAR 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, to allow NDC Corporation to complete antiviral (H1N1) surveillance)

Question 2: Is there a current contract?  RESPONSE: YES, See the response to Question 1.

Question 3: What was the previous award amount? RESPONSE: See the response to Question 1.

Question 4: If no previous contract, how has the data been reported? RESPONSE: See the response to Question 1.

Question 5: In reference to the requirement of a minimum of 400,000 antiviral prescriptions on a daily basis, has history shown that amount to
prescribed on a daily basis?  RESPONSE:   Our current requirement request real-time collection and delivery of data that represents at least
half of U.S. outpatient pharmacy market.

Question 6: In reference to the requirement for antiviral prescription data every 4 hours, 7 days a week, 365 days a year from time of dispense,
is this requirement currently being performed? RESPONSE: Yes.  Delivery of a file containing CDC identified anti-infective drugs minus HIV drug
data every 4 hours, 7 days a week, 365 days a year from time of dispense. There should be no more than a 1 day lag from the time the data are
generated (i.e., the prescription is requested) to the time the data are delivered to CDC.

Question 7: What is the justification for seeking prescription data every 4 hours?  Has that been demonstrated as useful and cost effective
during the recent pandemic?  RESPONSE: Yes

Question 8: What is the need for doing an actual file transfer of data as opposed to querying a designated interactive web portal? Both of these
requirements add huge costs to this solicitation that are not necessary. 

RESPONSE: The government requires a file transfer of data to flow directly to our internal server and find it much cheaper to develop an
interactive web portal. The government is not asking for a web portal, therefore cost is not a factor.

Question 9: What is the start date and period of performance? RESPONSE: The anticipated start date is April 1, 2010, with a performance period
of one year.

Question 10: Who is the program representative that could be contacted to discuss these requirements?  RESPONSE:   Prior to contact award, the
Contracting Officer or Contract Specialist listed on the Solicitation will be the point of contact to discuss requirements, no program
representative will be available to contact to discuss these requirements as we do not see a need for further clarification other than what has
been delineated in the Solicitation’s Statement of Work (SOW). Either the offerors can perform the requirement based upon the government’s
immediate and bona fide need prescribed in the Solicitation or it cannot. After award, the Project Officer or the appointed Contracting Officers
Technical Representative (COTR) shall be the point of contact for all technical matters.

 Question 11: How do we access prescription and pharmacy data? RESPONSE: This is what the government’s requirement is requesting you to provide.

Question 12: Do you have any fixed hours for data analyst and or subsequent computer professionals? RESPONSE:  History has shown that a total of
one week has been used for support of the initial data flow from vendor, mainly due to clarifications of new or unfamiliar header fields in the
submitted data flow.  We request you to provide access to a contact person with knowledge of the data to be available upon request.




