      Security Cameras and Aiphone System

Solicitation #DE-12SP000037







Southeastern Power Administration anticipates awarding one (1) fixed price contract.  Southeastern is requesting quotes on the attached Statement of Work for a Security Cameras and Intercom Aiphone System.  All deliverables are explained in the attached statement of work along with the evaluation criteria.

Bids must be received by mail or email by July 20, 2012, at 5:00 pm eastern standard time. 

All questions should be written and directed to Ann Craft, Contracting Officer, at .  The questions will be answered by Ray McWilliams, Information Technology Specialist.  



























































U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

SOUTHEASTERN POWER ADMINISTRATION

Statement of Work

Security Cameras and Intercom Aiphone System









INTRODUCTION

	

		Background

	

The Southeastern Power Administration (Southeastern), 1166 Athens Tech Road, Elberton, Georgia, 30635-6711 requires the services of a contractor to upgrade Southeastern Power Administration Security Cameras and Aiphone system.



The contractor is requested to conduct a pre-site visit to evaluate our existing Security Cameras and Aiphone system for upgrade.  



Southeastern Power Administration is a Federal power marketing administration that markets and delivers reliable, cost-based, hydroelectric power to preference customers in the southeastern United States.  The work required by this Firm Fixed Price Work Statement (FFPWS) will support the monitoring of the physical security at Southeastern.



 	2.0		SCOPE OF WORK



		2.1		Technical Requirements



The contractor will be required to upgrade Southeastern Security Cameras and Aiphone System. Also, warrant the products sold under this agreement for a period of (1) year from the date of purchase.



Components to be upgraded are:



Upgrade (1) existing 4/8/16CH MPEG-4 DVR with a DVR that can accommodate 16 cameras, Network Time Server (NTP) and storage of data for at least 30 days of recording.



Upgrade 10 existing Everfocus ED200n/N-3b 1/3” CCD Color Mini Dome internal Cameras using the existing wires when possible.



Upgrade 4 existing external Panasonic WV-CS854 Super Dynamic 11 ¼” Color/ Low Light B&W CCD chip dome cameras on the 4 Corners of the building using existing wires and housing when possible.



Note: The Panasonic POD-7w Outdoor 7” Clear Discrete Dome Housing are used with existing installation.



Upgrade 4 existing external VT-IR1C 24vac/60 Hz cameras with wide-angle lenses for the external doors. Use existing wires when possible.



Upgrade existing Panasonic WJ-SW208 8 position manual looping switcher and Panasonic WV-CU161 System Controller.



Note: The System Controller is for the 4 external Panasonic WV-CS854 Super Dynamic cameras.

  

Upgrade existing Kalated CBR-163z CCTV multiplexer with a newer CCTV multiplexer to support 6 cameras. This CCTV multiplexer will monitor 1 hallway and 4 IR cameras to monitor the attic area. We have 2 IR cameras installed in the attic already and we need to install 2 additional IR cameras in the attic. 



Note: Need to install cameras that will have proper lighting for the attic environment or install proper lightings.  





Upgrade existing Aiphone LEF-10 10 call master station, 8 Aiphone Le-D Weatherproof door station, Aiphone RY-PA relays for the door control and Aiphone PS-12C volt power supply UL listed 1 AMP output door release button.

Note: 4 external doors and 4 internal doors.

Upgrade 1 existing Aiphone LEF-5 5 call master station to a newer model. Also, add 3 more of the same Aiphone master station in 3 different locations. 

These master stations will monitor the main lobby internal door.



Replace 1 JVC CRT monitor with a 19” flat screen CCTV monitor.





	

		2.2		Deliverables

				

Upgraded Security Cameras System, master control stations, CCTV monitor and Aiphone Video Color Intercom system.



Replaced hardware and install wires where needed to complete the task. 



The Contractor will conduct an exit briefing for Southeastern designated staff.  The briefing should be conducted at the completion of the task requirements.









		2.3		Location of Performance



The performance location is Southeastern Power Administration 1166 Athens Tech Road, Elberton Ga. 30635.







		2.4		Travel

All travel to and from Southeastern offices will be provided by the contractor.  The Government will not separately reimburse the contractor for travel expenses or any other direct costs.





		2.5		Work Hours



				The contractor will be available between 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M., Eastern Time, Monday to Friday, during the period of the contract.  No work is to be performed on weekends or Federal holidays.





3.0		GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED MATERIALS/EQUIPMENT/ SERVICES



		3.1		Southeastern will provide a meeting room, flip charts and projector to show a PowerPoint or similar presentation.



		

		3.2		Southeastern will not provide any additional materials, equipment, services or supplies.



4.0 	SAFETY



	4.1	The Contractor shall comply with Department of Energy (DOE) Safety and Security Orders and Directives, including, but not limited to, the safety requirements defined in all applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances.  When questionable, the most stringent shall apply.



	4.2	Contractor personnel shall comply with all applicable provisions of 	the State Labor and Industries Safety and Health Regulations, U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards 29 CFR 1910 and 29 CFR 1926, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Title 40 CFR 170 (Worker Protection 	Standard) and other applicable Federal, State, and location regulations.



	4.3	Personal Injury/Illness:



	4.3.1	   Job-Related Injuries/Illnesses:  Job-related injuries/illnesses to Contractor employees shall be reported to the Technical Representative.









5.0	GENERAL CONDITIONS



	5.1	LAWS, ORDINANCES, AND REGULATIONS



	The contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, ordinances and codes governing performance of their services on Southeastern premises in Elberton, Georgia, and any other locations specified under the contract.



	5.5.1	The contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances, and national standards including 29 CFR 1910.



	5.5.2	Applicable policy and documents include but are not limited to the following:



Southeastern internal documents for emergency evacuation, visitor control and security.



DOE Safety and Security Orders and Directives regarding personal and physical security.



41 CFR 102-74, Subpart C, Conduct on Federal Property.





6.0		TECHNICAL COORDINATION



		Ray McWilliams

		Information Technology Specialist 

		Southeastern Power Administration

		1166 Athens Tech Road

		Elberton, GA  30635

		(706) 213-3821



7.0	ON-SITE WORK REQUIREMENTS

	Personnel who will be working on-site at Southeastern should be United States citizens and will be required to show picture identification.  Personnel shall conform to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidance on Cyber Security and DOE orders and manuals.

	If personnel are not United States citizens, Southeastern must be notified sixty (60) days in advance to request approval from DOE Headquarters.



8.0	EVALUATION

52.212-2  	Evaluation—Commercial Items (Jan 1999) 



(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: 



PRICE PROPOSAL EVALUATION.  Bidders’ price proposal will be evaluated to determine price realism and reasonableness.  Prices that are excessively high or low may be considered unrealistic and unreasonable, and may receive no further consideration.



TECHNICAL EVALUATION CRITERIA.  The Government will evaluate technical proposals based on the following:

Project Plan/Technical Approach - Describe your knowledge and understanding of the requirements as outlined in the SOW.

The technical approach must include a logical sequence of tasks that you will perform to accomplish the requirements.  Identify and describe the specific techniques and steps that will be applied during the accomplishment of all tasks of this project.



PAST PERFORMANCE. Bidders are required to describe three projects the bidders’ firm has completed similar in scope to this SOW.  Include points of contact and their phone numbers, and titles.  

The Government may supplement the information you provide with any other information it may obtain from any other source including its own experience with your firm, or information concerning your performance from any other reliable source.



The Project Plan/Technical Approach and Past Performance are twice as important as price.



 (b) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. 



The Government anticipates awarding one firm fixed price contract to the bidders whose proposal is the most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.  Proposals will be evaluated based on the factors described above.  

Bidders shall identify and document all (if any) assumptions, conditions, or exceptions upon which the technical part of this proposal is based.  All assumptions (both technical and price) shall be included in the proposal.

9.0		CLAUSES AND PROVISIONS



9.1	The clause 52.212-4, “Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (Feb 2012)” is incorporated by reference.



		9.2		52.212-3  Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items  (Apr 2012) 



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. 

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. 

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Inverted domestic corporation”, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at . 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. 

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

“Sensitive technology”— 

(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically— 

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or 

(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and 

(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (). 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Subsidiary” means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned— 

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or 

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. 

(b) 

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] 

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. 

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. 

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

(10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) , Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.” 

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.” 

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

Other Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(4) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: 

[List as necessary] 

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals— 

(1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

(3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and 

(4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(ii) Examples. 

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at (b).] 

(1) Listed end products.

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2) o Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (, ). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of , reporting requirements of , and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR , the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

o  TIN: ________________________________. 

o  TIN has been applied for. 

o  TIN is not required because: 

o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

(4) Type of organization. 

o  Sole proprietorship; 

o  Partnership; 

o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

o  Foreign government; 

o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

o  Other ________________________________. 

(5) Common parent. 

o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

o  Name and TIN of common parent: 

Name ________________________________. 

TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code . 

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that— 

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and 

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. 

(o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. 

(1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at . 

(2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror— 

(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and 

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. 

(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if— 

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., (g) or a comparable agency provision); and 

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. 

9.3	52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (May 2012) 



(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 



__ (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

__ (4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

__ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 

__ (7) , Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). 

__ (8) , Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). 

__ (9) , Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (10) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (11) [Reserved] 

__ (12)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). 

__ (13)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (14) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

__ (15)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

__ (16) , Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(). 

__ (17) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (18) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (19)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

__ (20) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (21) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (22) , Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (23)  , Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (). 

__ (24) , Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (). 

__ (25) , Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (). 

_X (26) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

_X (27) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). 

_X (28) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

_X (29) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

_X (30) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(). 

_X (31) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

_X (32) , Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

_X (33) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

__ (34) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

__ (35)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (36) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (37)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

_X (38) , Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513). 

_X (39) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (40)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (,  note,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, and 112-42). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (41) , Trade Agreements (May 2012) (, et seq.,  note). 

__ (42) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (43) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (44) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (45) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (46) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

_ (47) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

_X (48) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (49) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (50) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (51)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

_X (1) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

_X (2) , Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

_X (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

 (d)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 



9.4	52.212-1  Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (Feb 2012) 



(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the , letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR  (see FAR (b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); 

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the , include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 

(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 

(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 

(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 

(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 

GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407 

Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978. 

(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (). 

(ii) Quick Search (). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 

(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR ) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at . An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. 

(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the CCR database accessed through  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. 



 



	 



















Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 