

APPENDIX 10

FOR LARGE AND MEDIUM SITES



REQUIRED LOCAL COMMERCIAL

 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AT CUTOVER



10.0  Local services, required from the Contractor, are initial installation and cutover service requirements for the Government under the scope of this contract.  The Contractor shall provide the following baseline of local commercial communications services for Pease ANGB NH at cutover.  The quantity of these initial service requirements will be incorporated into the Schedule B.  The installation service requirement will be identified here and the Schedule B. 



The base telephone switching system is a Nortel Meridian 1 Option 61C with software version 3.0.  The switching system is located in Building 145 North, Room 121, , Pease ANGB NH 03803-0157.



Cutover for this site is:  __120__ days.



	 

The base Communication Services Officer (CSO) is:  



William Wilson, GS-13, Maj

Communications Flight Commander

157CF/CC

, B145N

Pease 

603.430.3510

603.430.3403

 



The base technical representative is:  



Kimberly Urice, GS-11, SMSgt

Plans Implementation Superintendent

157CF/SCXP

, B145N

Pease 

603.430.2507

603.430.3403

 











10.1  Direct-In-Dial Directory Numbers.







10.2  Exchange and Access Lines.





10.2.1  Commercial Subscriber Lines.



The number of commercial subscriber lines (CSL) is:  ___4____.







NOTE: (603) 431-1692 is a “Party Line” available at the two locations identified above.





10.2.2  Hot Lines.  Not Applicable.



10.3  Local Exchange and Access Trunks.



10.3.1  Local Exchange Access Analog Trunks.  Not Applicable.



10.3.2  Local Exchange Access Digital Trunks.







10.3.3  Local Exchange Digital (ISDN PRI) Trunks.









10.4  Foreign Exchange (FX) Lines/Trunks.



10.4.1  Analog FX Line/Trunks.  Not Applicable.



10.4.2  Foreign Exchange Digital Trunks.  Not Applicable.



10.5  Transport Channels.  Not Applicable.



10.6  Data Point-to-Point Circuits.  Not Applicable.



10.7  Circuit Extension.







10.8.  911/E911 Services.  The Contractor shall provide configuration diagrams to show access to 911 or enhanced 911 services, where available, through the local city or county emergency services organization.  All of the 911 calls generated on-base through the base switch are routed to the 157 Security Forces Squadron control center.  All 911 calls generated from commercial subscriber lines are routed from the LEC switch back to the 157 Security Forces Squadron.

	

10.9  Public Listings.





10.10  Telephone Directories.







10.11  Diversity/Diverse Routing.  Not Applicable.





NPA- NXX-XXXX

DID Directory Numbers

(603) 430-2300 to 2799

500

(603) 430-3100 to 3599

500

TOTAL

1000



(NPA)-NXX-XXX

Type

Services and

Optional

Features

Demarcation

Organization &

Location

(603) 631-1692

See Note

Analog

BS, FR

, 

Bldg 244

Pease ANGB NH 

03803-0157

157 SFS/CSC

(603) 431-1788

Analog

BS, FR

, 

Bldg 244

Pease ANGB NH 

03803-0157

157 SFS/CSC

(603) 431-1692

See Note

Analog

BS, FR

Bldg 145 North,

 Room 121

157 CF/SCM

(603) 436-9220

Analog

BS, FR

, 

Bldg 257

Pease ANGB NH 

03803-0157

157 ARW/CP



ISDN PRI Circuit ID

D-Channel

IC 

B-Channel Quantity & Signaling:

(PRI Q.931)

OG 

B-Channel Quantity & Signaling:

(PRI Q.931)

2 Way Channel 

B-Channel

Quantity & Signaling

(PRI Q.931):

Qty

Demarcation

PRI #1

1





23

Bldg 145, Room 121



Circuit ID/Name

Type

Demarcation

User’s Location

Estimated Mileage

Circuit Description

CLS 13,

GGNA,61045,,NE

2 Wire, Voice, Full Duplex

Bldg 145N





3

SAYRA Signal Arrangement

CLS 13,

GGNA,61046,NE

2 Wire, Voice, Full Duplex

Bldg 145N





3

SAYRA Signal Arrangement



Description

Qty

Public Listing, Government Section

1

Cross Reference Listing, Alphabetical Section

1











Description

Qty

Local Telephone Directories

50
  39786.0
Site:  Pease ANGB NH
CLIN 0002 CLIN 0003 CLIN 0004
Services & Function Items CLIN 0001
SLIN DESCRIPTION Unit of Issue Quantity Actual Unit Cutover Actual Total Cutover Charges Actual Non-Recurring Charges (NRC) Actual Total NRC Actual Monthly Recurring Charges (MRC) Actual Total MRC Actual Monthly Taxes/Fees/
Surcharges (TS&F) Actual Total TS&F
 
A Installation and Cutover
A A Installation Plan EA 1.0
A B Cutover Plan EA 1.0
Customer Service Records
A C Customer Services Record EA 11.0
Trunking Traffic Study/Analysis Report
A D City Trunk Traffic Analysis Study with Report EA 5.0
A E Higher Bandwidth Transport Circuit Traffic Analysis Study, DS1 and Higher with Report EA 5.0
Invoice Reconciliation Report
A F Invoice Reconciliation Report EA 6.0
A G  - AZ Reserved
B Direct In Dial Directory Number 
B A DID Directory Number HD 10.0
B B Direct In Dial (DID) Directory Number Portability HD 10.0
B C  - BZ Reserved
C Commercial Subscriber Lines
C A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 4.0
C F Local Number Portability Pool Fee EA 4.0
C G Universal Service Surcharge/End User Common Line Charge EA 4.0
C H Other Taxes, Fees and Surcharges EA 4.0
C J  - CZ Reserved
E Local Exchange Digital ISDN PRI  
E A ISDN Primary Rate Interface EA 1.0
E B Calling ID& Number Service EA 1.0
E C PRI Individual D-Channel EA 1.0
E F Flat Rate, Basic Services, PRI Individual B-Channel 2 Way (2W) EA 23.0
E H Local Number Portability Pool Fee EA 1.0
E J Universal Service Surcharge/End User Common Line Charge EA 1.0
E K Other Taxes, Fees and Surcharges  EA 1.0
E L  - EZ Reserved
K Circuit Extension 
K C 2-Wire Voice Circuit & Termination  EA 2.0
K D 2-Wire Voice Circuit Transport Mileage Ml 6.0
Public Listings 
U H Public Listings  EA 1.0
U J Cross-Reference Listing EA 1.0
U N  - UZ Reserved
Total
LOCAL COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
AT
Pease ANGB NH
CLIN Services & Function Items Actual Monthly Actual Annually Actual 5 Year Total
0001 CUTOVER
0002 NON-RECURRING CHARGES (NRC)
0003 MONTHLY RECURRING CHARGES (MRC)
0004 MONTHLY TAXES, FEES, AND SURCHARGES
Total 
Grand Total - 5 Year CSA









                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK

                                                                      (SOW)

                                                                       FOR

                                                                 LOCAL COMMERCIAL

                                                             COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES

                                                                        AT


                                                                  PEASE ANGB NH







1.  Scope.

1.1   General Requirements.  This Statement of Work (SOW) is a comprehensive description of local exchange access services, analog and digital
access transport services, and intra-Local Access Transport Area (LATA) interconnect functions the Air Force requires a Contractor to be
technically capable of providing services in accordance with the SOW.  Specific service requirements to be currently authorized and provided at
the site are identified in Appendix 10 of this solicitation.  The Contractor shall provide all transmission facilities, equipment, materials,
maintenance, test equipment, and design layout needed to perform and provide local access and transport services and functions at the designated
demarcation point.  These services shall include any special items, equipment, wiring or infrastructure to ensure the Contractor’s proposed
solution is compatible with the government’s current infrastructure.  The contractor is responsible for troubleshooting and maintaining the
operation of the circuit up to its termination point. Access to the local exchange shall include: operator assistance, directory assistance
(DA), and emergency 911/E911 services and functions.  These services shall not include residential/business services for non-Government entities
or Government Contractors.  Long distance services for Pease ANGB NH are currently being provided under the Federal Technology Services (FTS)
contract. The contractor shall follow all FCC, PUC, DOD, AF and industry standards for this requirement

NOTE:  The definitions of the comprehensive set of services are described in this SOW even though these services may not be called out
(initially) in Appendix 10.  These services may be ordered at a later date by Pease ANGB NH and the Contractor, when required, will have to
provide the requested service(s) as defined below.

    a.   The local exchange access services at Pease ANGB NH are currently being provided by Verizon

     b.   The base telephone switching system is a Nortel Meridian 1 Option 61C with software version 3.0.  The switching system is located in
Building 145 North, Room 121, 302 Newmarket St, Pease ANGB NH 03803-0157.

     c.   The primary long distance carrier serving Pease ANGB NH is under the Federal Technology Services (FTS) contract.

1.2   Competitive Economic Advantage Consideration.  The local exchange or Dial Central Office services provided for under the pricing, terms,
and conditions of this contract are principally intended to meet known installation service requirements and an estimate of the type of services
that may be required during the term of the contract.  Where the contracting officer determines usage of the contract to be cost effective and
the contractor providing such services to the Government agrees and has the additional capability to provide services to other installations or
agencies within 100 miles of the principal place of performance, orders may be placed for such additional services.  When an order is placed and
the contractor initiates performance, all terms and conditions of this contract shall apply.

2.0   Documents.  The contractor shall provide a list of applicable industry standards that shall be followed in the performance of the
contract.  These documents shall be made available to the Government upon request.

3.  Requirements.

   a.   The Appendix 10 will identify the Local Commercial Communications Services required, including characteristics, quantities, and
locations, as applicable.


   b.   The Communications-Computer Systems Officer (CSO) at the Government installation is responsible for telecommunications activities that
will be identified in this SOW.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the CSO prior to the installation, removal, expansion, and/or change out
of equipment.


   c.   The Government will provide floor space for the installation of the Contractor’s provided transmission equipment.  The floor space shall
be limited to accommodate Contractor-provided relay rack(s), 19 to 23 inches wide by 7 feet tall, as ceiling height permits at each designated
demarcation.  Space is available for 2 relay racks for Contractor equipment in Bldg 145N.  The Government will provide electrical power and room
environment for the installation of the Contractor equipment.  When additional rack space or floor space is required to support Government
requirements, the Contractor shall coordinate with the CSO.

   d.   Organizational office symbol for the CSO:  157 CF/CC.

3.1   Local Commercial Communications Services.

3.1.1   Installation and Cutover.   The Contractor shall perform a site survey of the installation area.  The Contractor shall develop an
installation and cutover plan for provision to the Government no later than (NLT) 15 calendar days after contract award.  The Government
requires 15 working days to review and provide comments/acceptance.  The Contractor shall provide a final plan, NLT 10 working days, after
receipt of the Government comments.  The Contractor shall not commence on-site installation and cutover until the Contractor receives a
Government acceptance of the service installation and cutover plan.  Installation of the initial required services for cutover of Local
Commercial Communications Service requirements shall be as specified in Appendix 10.  Installation, circuit assignments, all possible/applicable
testing, records’ management, cutover and Government acceptance shall be completed NLT one hundred and twenty (120) days after contract.
Deviations from the final Installation Plan will be coordinated with the Government prior to any work being accomplished in the affected area.
The contractor shall ensure that all circuits and service provided by the incumbent, under the prior contract, are disconnected/discontinued
upon successful cutover.  In the event that the contract award is made to the incumbent Contractor, no installation/cutover plans will be
required.

3.1.1.1.   Installation Plan.  The Installation Plan shall, at a minimum, contain the following site specific information:

      a.   Description of new equipment to be installed (include any site support required to support this installation).
      b.   Detailed location of equipment to be installed
      c.   Reason equipment is being installed.
      d.   Floor Plan Layout (space requirements shall not exceed the area defined in paragraph 3.0c).
      e.   Installation schedule.

3.1.1.2   Cutover Plan.  The Cutover Plan shall, at a minimum, contain the following site specific information:

      a.   Conditions/Support required to be in place prior to the start of cutover.
      b.   A detailed listing of actions/events that must occur for successful cutover of all items identified in Appendix 10.
      c.   A listing of the contractor responsibilities.
      d.   A listing of the incumbent contractor responsibilities.
      e.   A listing of Government responsibilities

3.1.2   Commercial Subscriber Lines & Exchange Access Trunks.

3.1.2.1   Commercial Subscriber Lines.  The Contractor shall provide subscriber lines as specified in Appendix 10.  Local exchange access, as
applicable, shall include commercial subscriber lines and foreign exchange (FX) lines.

3.1.2.2   Commercial Subscriber Line Basic Service (BS).  BS of a line, as a minimum, shall include the following:

1. dial tone
2. direct inward dialing
3. direct outward dialing
4. Dual Tone Multi-Frequency (DTMF)
5. local exchange and long distance accesses
6. equal access
7. call blocking for Numbering Plan Area (NPA) 900
8. operator assistance (0+ & 00+)
9. Directory Assistance (DA)
10. 911 services, where available
11. non-published directory number
service disconnect with referral service (the referral service shall be at least three (3) months after a customer has been moved, changed, or
disconnected
13. block Directory Assistance Call Completion (DACC)
14. block third party billing
15. Toll free access

3.1.2.3   Commercial Subscriber Line Optional Features.  The Contractor shall provide optional line features as specified in Appendix 10.  An
optional feature could be an individual feature or a group of features.

3.1.2.4   Subscriber Line Relocation.  The Contractor shall perform subscriber line relocation(s) and shall provide information needed for
database updates for enhanced 911 service purposes when requested.

3.1.2.5   Exchange Access Trunks.  The Contractor shall provide local exchange access service circuits for local trunks as specified in Appendix
10.

3.1.2.6  Exchange Access Trunks BS.  BS of an (local or FX) access trunk, as a minimum, shall include the following:

   (  call blocking for Numbering Plan Area (NPA) 900
16. direct inward dialing directionalization
17. direct outward dialing directionalization
18. two-way dialing directionalization
19. channelization of digital trunks (as specified by work order)
20. trunk busy tones
21. DTMF, MF 2/6 and dial pulse (DP) address signaling
22. access services
23. trunk and/or trunk group establishment
24. automatic trunk member selection (sequential, linear, most idle, etc.)
25. automatic trunk group alternate route selection
26. Toll free access

Access to and selection of the members within the trunk group between two telephone switching systems must be coordinated to provide optimum
member selection and minimize glare conditions.  When two or more trunk groups are established to provide services between the switching
systems, the alternate route selection from one trunk group to the next provides users access to these trunk groups in a coordinated and
predetermined routing sequence.  The selection of members within a trunk group and the alternate route selection of two or more trunk groups are
included as basic functions of trunks and their access.

3.1.3   Transport Services.  The Contractor shall provide local exchange transport channel services as specified in Appendix 10.  Local
transport channel services include transport channel termination and transmission support, as applicable, for analog lines, ISDN lines, alarm
circuits, data circuits up to 64 Kbps or aggregate N x 64 Kbps, High Capacity Digital Subscriber Line (HDSL), Digital Signal level 1 (DS-1), DS-
3, Optical Carrier Signal level 1 (OC-1), OC-3, and may be expanded to OC-12, OC-24 and OC-48.

3.1.4   Circuit Termination.  Circuit termination at the Government installation includes the Main Distribution Frame (MDF) for analog signals,
metallic cable pairs, Digital Signal Cross-Connect (DSX)-1 patch, cross connect panel for T-1 circuits, DSX-3 for electrical T-3 circuits, fiber
optic patch and cross connect panels for optical interface equipment such as the optical carrier or SONET systems, optical multiplexer
equipment, and Cat 3/5/6 RJ-45 jack fields.  Other wall-mounted, punch-down, terminal blocks are used for isolation and termination of
Contractor metallic facilities.  The Contractor shall ensure that all circuits are clearly tagged in a permanent manner with the circuit
identification number or telephone number assigned to the circuit, and the work order number.  The contractor shall be responsible to provide
all equipment, facilities and wiring up to the government demarcation point as specified in Appendix 10.

3.1.4.1   Analog and Low Data Rates.  The Contractor shall terminate the analog and lower rate data circuits to the Contractor-provided terminal
blocks.  The Government shall provide frame space on the MDF for the installation of the Contractor provided protector vertical and horizontal
blocks.  All outside plant copper cables entering the demarcation location must be electrically protected (grounded, terminated on protector
modules, etc.).

3.1.4.2   High Data Rates.  The Contractor shall properly terminate digital circuits to the Contractor provided DSX-1, DSX-3, or fiber optic
patch panel.

3.1.4.3   Circuit Testing.  The Contractor shall provide the test results to the CSO after a new circuit is tested, approved, and activated.
The notification shall be in a written or verbal format at the discretion of the CSO.  The parameters of the circuit characteristics shall be
documented in the Customer Service Records.

3.1.5   Local Exchange Access and Service Areas.  The Contractor shall provide flat rate (FR) services within local calling areas.  FR services
apply for both lines and trunks.  The local exchange access service areas shall, as a minimum, include the areas/zones coverage as currently
defined by the incumbent local service provider(s) and/or the State Public Utilities Commission (PUC) for Pease ANGB NH and shall be applied
under the scope of this contract.  When the Contractor provides services to a Government installation, the LATA boundary shall not be limited or
restricted to a Contractor’s service area.  Connection to intra-LATA exchange areas and with inter-LATA exchange carriers is required.  Access
to the local exchange shall include Operator Assistance, Directory Assistance, and 911 services and functions.

3.1.6   Number Portability.  The Contractor shall provide number portability for commercial subscriber lines and local exchange direct-in-dial
(DID) directory numbers.  The consistent use of the same prefix exchange and directory numbers provides the Government installation with its
commercial identity.  The Government installation is also serviced by other Government switched networks (e.g., the Federal Telephone Service
(FTS), and the Defense Switched Network (DSN)).  These networks provide DID trunks and are directly dependent on the mutually assigned DID
number to terminate into stations on the installation.  Local exchange number portability and DID number growth is a critical factor in the
ability of a Government installation to support its personnel and its missions.  The Contractor shall comply with the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC), and the State Public Utility Commission (PUC) mandates for number portability.

3.2   Demarcation.  The demarcation points shall be as specified in Appendix 10 of this SOW.

3.2.1 Circuit Extension.  The Contractor shall provide circuit extension of a local communications service or circuit beyond the established
demarcation to a user designated termination point when required by the government.

3.2.2   Circuit Termination.  Circuit termination shall include transmission equipment, termination hardware, and circuit conditioning equipment
required to extend a circuit to a user location.

NOTE:  Government data networks and end equipment will not be available for contractor use.

3.2.3   Contractor Owned/Leased Transport Cable.  When Government cable is not available, the Contractor shall provide the circuit transport
mileage by using the existing cable, either owned or leased from a third party, for a circuit extension.

3.2.4   Contractor Equipment and Cable Installation.  The Contractor shall provide and install transmission equipment and cables for local
exchange access and transport service circuits to the Government provided floor space at the demarcation location(s).  The Contractor shall
coordinate with the CSO for compliance with local procedures and requirements for equipment and cable installation.  The Contractor shall
install equipment and cables in accordance with national and local safety codes.  The Contractor shall be responsible for wiring and connecting
to Government provided power connection points, ground master connection points, and termination frames for terminal blocks.  The Contractor
shall coordinate with the CSO for installation details.  All new cable installations will be either underground or direct buried (i.e., NO
aerial installations).  Replacement of existing cable may be either underground, direct buried or aerial at the discretion of the CSO.

3.3  Restoration of Service and Maintenance.  The Contractor shall respond and restore service outages.  From the time of receipt of the
notification, the Contractor shall respond within the time limits as indicated below to discuss the outage issue.   If it is determined by the
Contractor that the outage restoration time frames cannot be met, the Contractor will contact the CSO.  The Contractor will prioritize and
perform restorations IAW the Telecommunications Services Program (TSP).  The CSO will determine the prioritization of (multiple) outages for the
base/site portion of the TSP.  The Contractor shall respond to the Government within one (1) hour of notification.

3.3.1 Emergency Outage.  The CSO can declare any outage as an emergency outage if an outage significantly affects the mission of the Government
installation.  Restore service within four (4) hours from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s notification.

3.3.2  Catastrophic Outage.  Restore service within eight (8) hours from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s notification.

3.3.3  Serious Outage.   Restore service within twenty-four (24) hours from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s notification.

3.3.4  Routine Outage.  Restore service within two (2) calendar days from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s notification.

3.4  911 Services.  The Contractor shall provide access to 911 services, where available, through the local city or county emergency services
organization.  Emergency service assistance shall be provided for the hearing impaired.  All of the 911 calls generated on-base through the base
switch are routed to the 157 Security Forces Squadron control center.  All 911 calls generated from commercial subscriber lines are routed from
the LEC switch back to the 157 Security Forces Squadron.

3.5  Public Listings.  The Contractor shall provide public listings, cross reference listings, and foreign listings for the Government
installation.  The listings shall be listed in the Government section and/or alphabetical section.  The Contractor shall coordinate with the CSO
to obtain a list and the contents of the Public Listings.  The contents of each cross reference listing shall, as a minimum, include the
organization title and a referral statement to the appropriate Government Agency.  All other listings shall, as a minimum, include the
Government title, organization title, address, and telephone number.

3.6  Telephone Directories.  The Contractor shall provide local telephone directories for Pease ANGB NH.  Pease ANGB NH will be provided 50
local telephone directories annually.

3.7  Service Orders.  From the time of receipt of the work order, the Contractor shall complete the work order within the specified time limits.
 The work orders will be determined by the CSO as either emergency, priority, or routine services.  If it is determined by the Contractor that
the service order time frames cannot be met, the Contractor will contact the CSO.

3.7.1  Emergency Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within three (3) calendar days.

3.7.2  Priority Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within seven (7) calendar days.

3.7.3  Routine Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within fourteen (14) calendar days.

3.8  Traffic Analysis.  The Contractor shall perform traffic measurement and traffic analysis as required.

3.8.1  Traffic Analysis for City Trunks.  The Contractor shall perform traffic analysis for city trunks once per year when tasked by the CSO.
The Contractor shall provide a report to CSO NLT 15 calendar days after notification of request.

3.8.1.1  The Traffic Analysis for City Trunks report shall provide data concerning the use and congestion of the city trunks, and will be used
to determine whether the city trunks provide adequate traffic capacity and whether existing facilities are adequate.

3.8.1.2  The Traffic Analysis for City Trunks report shall provide printed, tabulated data from the traffic measuring system and shall provide
measurements for seven (7) consecutive business days, on an hourly basis, unless a shorter interval is requested.

3.8.1.3  The Traffic Analysis for City Trunks report shall contain an analysis of the traffic measurements and recommendations based on the
analysis. Recommendations shall address expansion/reduction of the city trunks.  The report shall, as a minimum but not limited to, include
trunk group name, trunk group number, trunk type, working quantity within each group, average busy hour for 2-way/incoming/outgoing trunks,
average usage in CCS or Erlangs, current grade of service at average usage, number of trunks recommended for each trunk group at a P.1 grade of
service.

3.8.2  Traffic Analysis for Higher Bandwidth Transport Circuits.  The Contractor shall perform traffic analysis for higher bandwidth transport
circuits as required. The Contractor shall provide a report NLT 15 calendar days after the Government request of the traffic study.

3.8.2.1  The Traffic Analysis for Higher Bandwidth Transport Circuits report shall provide data concerning the use and congestion of the
transport system, and will be used to determine whether the transport system provides adequate traffic capacity and whether existing facilities
are adequate.

3.8.2.2  The Traffic Analysis for Higher Bandwidth Transport Circuits report shall provide printed, tabulated data from the traffic measuring
system.

3.8.2.3  The Traffic Analysis for Higher Bandwidth Transport Circuits report shall contain an analysis of the traffic measurements and
recommendations based on the analysis. Recommendations shall address expansion of the transport system hardware and software, and shall be
specific for the transport type being analyzed.  The report shall, as a minimum but not limited to, include transport circuit name (ID),
description of transport circuit, circuit type (voice, data, point-to-point, broadcast, packet switch, frame relay, SONET, ATM, etc.)
transmission rate (DS1, DS3, STS1, OC1, OC-3, OC-12, OC-24, OC-48, etc.) average maximum usage bandwidth, average minimum usage bandwidth, and
average usage bandwidth.

3.8.3  The Contractor shall perform one traffic analysis and provide a report once per year when tasked by the CSO.  The contractor will have 15
days to provide the traffic study report  to the CSO after notification or request.

3.9  Customer Service Records.  The Contractor shall update customer service records no later than ten (10) working days after a service ordered
has been activated.

3.9.1 Contractor format for the Customer Service Records (CSR) is acceptable; however the following information is required for each type of
service circuit.

3.9.1.1  Direct-in-dial (DID) numbers: NPA-NXX-XXXX, non-recurring costs, and monthly recurring costs.

3.9.1.2  Subscriber Lines:  User name/office symbol, user address (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip code),
directory number, demarcation location (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip code), description of service type for
each item or sub-item, optional features provided, quantity, non-recurring costs, monthly recurring costs, and activity date.

3.9.1.3  Trunks:  Description of trunk/trunk group ID (DID, DOD, FEX, etc.), trunk ID number, trunk access number (NPA-NXX-XXXX), demarcation
location (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip code), trunk type (IC, OG, 2-way, 2-wire, 4-wire, etc.), digital
(number of channels equipped) or analog, signaling type (loop, E&M, SF, ESF, etc.), address signaling (DTMF, MF 2/6, PRI, SS7, DP, NP, etc.),
start dial signaling (Ground Start, IM, DD, WS, etc.), answer supervision (loop, E&M, PRI, etc.), quantity, non-recurring costs, monthly
recurring costs, and activation date.

3.9.1.4  Transport circuit:  Description of transport circuit/ID (circuit name), circuit ID number, circuit type (voice, data, point-to-point,
broadcast, packet switch, frame relay, SONET, ATM, etc.) transmission rate 2.4/4.8/9.6/14.4/19.2/28.8/56/64 kbps, DS1/T1, DS2, DS3, STS1, OC1,
OC12, OC24, OC48, etc.), demarcation location (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip code), quantity, non-recurring
costs, monthly recurring costs, and activation date.

3.9.2  The CSR will also include a total monthly cost for all services.

3.9.3  The Contractor shall provide one copy of all Customer Service Records to CSO NLT 60 calendar days following initial service cutover.
After initial submission, the Contractor shall provide one copy of Customer Service Records bi-annually to the CSO.

3.9.4   Invoice Reconciliation Report.  The Contractor shall provide an Invoice Reconciliation Report (IRR) analysis with the CSA NLT than 60
days after award.  After initial submission, the Contractor shall provide the Invoice Reconciliation Report by 30 Sep of each year in the period
of performance for this contract.  Two copies will be required:  One copy will be sent to the CSO and one copy will be sent to the 38th EIG/PKK
Contracting Officer at Tinker AFB.

3.9.4.1  Contractor format for the Invoice Reconciliation report is acceptable, however the following information shall be summarized in report
format:

      CSA contract Number and location of site

      Summary total of any invoices billed on this CSA from Sep to Aug of reporting year.

      CSA Summary of services added, deleted or changed during the reporting period.

3.10  Diversity/Diverse Routing.  Not Applicable.

3.11  Contract Management.

3.11.1 Meetings.  The Contractor’s project manager shall be available from Monday to Friday, between 7:30 am to 4:00 pm local time, to meet the
CSO on-site for technical interchange discussions.  A meeting will be scheduled within ten (10) business days for a routine service requirement,
five (5) business days for an essential service requirement that may need special attention, or two (2) business days for a mission essential
requirement needing immediate attention.

3.11.2  Support.  The Contractor shall assist Government representatives with testing and implementation of a new service circuit or expansion
to existing circuits.  The Contractor shall cooperate with the CSO or other Contractors who may be interconnecting with other related services.
When expansion services entail Contractor support that requires additional equipment or testing to activate a circuit, the Contractor shall
develop the installation and activation plans with the CSO.

3.11.3  Point-of-Contact.  The Contractor shall provide a 24-hour point-of-contact telephone number for the notification of telephone/circuit
outages and services.

3.12  Regulations and Policies.  The Contractor shall follow all base regulations and policies regarding security, safety, and environment and
federal, state, and local regulations, as applicable.  The CSO will conduct a local regulation and policy briefing prior to the commencement of
work.

3.12.1  Safety and Environmental.  An environmental assessment is required at each site before the Contractor’s work can begin.  The Contractor
will coordinate with the Environmental Management/Civil Engineering Personnel through the CSO to make sure the environmental assessment has been
accomplished.  The owning agency is responsible for performing environmental assessments for each communications site where work is to be
performed, and this assessment must be accomplished prior to any task carried out by the Contractor.

3.12.2  Safety Training and Education.  The Contractor must have a safety and health plan for the employees.  The employer shall instruct each
employee in the recognition and avoidance of unsafe conditions and the regulations applicable to his work environment to control or eliminate
any hazards or other exposure to illness or injury.

3.12.3  Safety and Health.  The Contractor shall meet with the local safety and bioenvironmental personnel prior to work surveys to determine
any potential problems with the projected work in areas that may contain asbestos, hazardous materials, and hazardous wastes.  The Contractor
shall follow local procedures established by the local safety and health offices.  Reference the instructions in CFR 29, Part 1926.58, Appendix
G for proximate to asbestos containing materials.  The Contractor shall meet with the local Civil Engineers to determine proper procedures for
disposal of residue hazardous materials and empty hazardous materials containers.

3.12.4  Hazardous Material Reporting on Federal Installations.  The Contractor (primary and sub) are required to provide Material Safety Data
Sheets (MSDS) on each hazardous material/compound that will be used in the performance of work specified by Government contract.  The MSDSs will
be provided to the federal facilities Environmental Management Office for approval of use prior to any use of the hazardous materials (paints,
solvents, cleaners, encapsulating compounds, etc.).  Hazardous materials are not permitted on any federal facility until approval has been
processed and granted through the local Environmental Management.  There are no exceptions to this requirement.

3.12.5  Ozone Depletion.  No ozone depleting chemicals or compounds will be used during the performance of work.  (EPA Clean Air Act, 1991
Revision).

3.12.6  Work Clearance Request.  The Contractor shall obtain a Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, AF Form 103, prior to trenching,
digging, or modifying a facility.  The Contractor will obtain direction from Base Civil Engineering for all excavations and trenching.  In
addition, the Contractor will adhere to Base Civil Engineering policy when working in confined spaces (i.e., entering manholes, tunnels, and
unvented vaults) and shall be coordinated with the local safety and health offices prior to entry.  Under no circumstances shall the Contractor
handle, transport, or dispose of hazardous waste materials.  This is solely the facility owner’s responsibility.

3.12.7  Accident/Incident Reporting and Investigation.  The Contractor shall record and report to the CSO all available facts relating to each
instance of accidental damage to Government property or injury to either Contractor or Government personnel.  The Contractor shall secure the
accident scene and wreckage until released by the accident investigative authority through the CSO and contracting officer.  If the Government
elects to conduct an investigation of the incident, the Contractor shall cooperate fully and assist the Government personnel until the
investigation is completed.

3.12.8  Subcontractors Safety.  The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring his/her subcontractors comply with all the provisions of this
contract.

3.13  Special Service.  When future requirements indicate that a special service is required, a separate proposal shall be negotiated with the
Contracting Officer.  No work shall be authorized until receipt of the contract modification signed by the Contracting Officer.  In addition,
the contractor shall not proceed with services until receipt of DD Form 1367 from CSO.  Any special service requested shall comply with the
paragraphs of Sections 3.0 through 3.13 of this SOW.

4.0  Security Requirements.  Contractor must comply with the following security requirements.


4.1  Listing Of Employees.  The contractor shall maintain a current listing of employees.  The list shall include the employee's name, social
security number and type of investigation if contract work involves unescorted entry to Air Force restricted areas or other sensitive areas
designated by the installation commander.  The list shall be provided to the CSO and sponsoring agency’s Security Manager.  An updated listing
shall be provided when an employee's status or information changes.

4.2  Pass And Identification Items.  The contractor shall ensure the pass and identification items required for contract performance are
obtained for employees and non-government owned vehicles.

4.2.1  Before arrival, the contractor must mail or fax a Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) to the CSO, listing the name, social security number,
date of birth, and clearance level of the individuals who will be visiting the installation.  The VAL must provide the purpose of the visit, the
dates of the visit, and a POC.

4.2.2  Upon receipt, the VAL will be given to the Visitor Control Center for issuance of an AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass.

4.3  Retrieving Identification Media.  The contractor shall retrieve all identification media, including vehicle passes from employees who
depart for any reason before the contract expires; e.g. terminated for cause, retirement, etc.

4.4  Traffic Laws.  The contractor and its employees shall comply with base traffic regulations.

4.5  Weapons, Firearms, and Ammunition.  Contractor employees are prohibited from possessing weapons, firearms, or ammunition, on themselves or
within their contractor-owned vehicle or privately-owned vehicle while on base.

4.6  For Official Use Only (FOUO).  The contractor shall comply with DoD 5400-7-R, Chapter 4, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, and
requirements.  This regulation sets policy and procedures for the disclosure of records to the public and for marking, handling, transmitting,
and safeguarding FOUO material.

4.7  Physical Security.  The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property and controlled forms provided for
contractor use.  At the end of each work period, all government facilities, equipment, and materials shall be secured.

4.8  Controlled/Restricted Areas.  The contractor shall implement local base procedures for entry to Air Force controlled/restricted areas where
contractor personnel will work.  An AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, must be completed and signed by the sponsoring
agency’s Security Manager before a Restricted Area Badge will be issued.  Contractor employees must have a completed National Agency Check,
Local Agency Check, Credit Check (NACLC) investigation before receiving a Restricted Area Badge.

4.9  Key Control.  The contractor shall establish and implement methods of making sure all keys issued to the contractor by the Government are
not lost or misplaced and are not used by unauthorized persons.  The contractor shall not duplicate any keys issued by the government.

4.9.1  The contractor shall immediately report to the CSO any occurrences of lost or duplicated keys.

4.9.2  In the event keys, other than master keys, are lost or duplicated, the contractor may be required, upon written direction of the
contracting officer, to re-key or replace the affected lock or locks without cost to the government.  The government may, however, at its
option, replace the affected lock or locks or perform re-keying and deduct the cost of such from the monthly payment due the contractor.  In the
event a master key is lost or duplicated, all locks and keys for that system shall be replaced by the government and the total cost deducted
from the monthly payment due the contractor.

4.9.3  The contractor shall prohibit the use of keys, issued by the government, by any persons other than the contractor’s employees and the
opening of locked areas by contractor employees to permit entrance of persons other than contractor employees engaged in performance of contract
work requirements in those areas.

4.10  Lock Combinations.  The contractor shall control access to all government provided lock combinations to preclude unauthorized entry.  The
contractor is not authorized to record lock combinations without written approval by the CSO.  Records with written combinations to authorized
secure storage containers, secure storage rooms, or certified vaults, shall be marked and safeguarded at the highest classification level as the
classified material maintained inside the approved containers.

5.0  Site Specific Special Requirements.  Not Applicable.







                                                                   APPENDIX 10


                                                            REQUIRED LOCAL COMMERCIAL
                                                        COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AT CUTOVER

10.0  Local services, required from the Contractor, are initial installation and cutover service requirements for the Government under the scope
of this contract.  The Contractor shall provide the following baseline of local commercial communications services for Pease ANGB NH at cutover.
 The quantity of these initial service requirements will be incorporated into the Schedule B.  The installation service requirement will be
identified here and the Schedule B.

10.1  Direct-In-Dial Directory Numbers.

|NPA- NXX-XXXX                                                            |DID Directory Numbers                                              |
|(603) 430-2300 to 2799                                                   |500                                                                |
|(603) 530-3100 to 3599                                                   |500                                                                |
|TOTAL                                                                    |1000                                                               |

10.2  Exchange and Access Lines.

10.2.1  Commercial Subscriber Lines.

|(NPA)-NXX-XXX            |Type            |Services and                   |Demarcation                    |Organization &                 |
|                         |                |Optional                       |                               |Location                       |
|                         |                |Features                       |                               |                               |
|(603) 631-1692           |Analog          |BS, FR                         |302 Newmarket St,              |157 SFS/CSC                    |
|See Note                 |                |                               |Bldg 244                       |                               |
|                         |                |                               |Pease ANGB NH                  |                               |
|                         |                |                               |03803-0157                     |                               |
|(603) 431-1788           |Analog          |BS, FR                         |302 Newmarket St,              |157 SFS/CSC                    |
|                         |                |                               |Bldg 244                       |                               |
|                         |                |                               |Pease ANGB NH                  |                               |
|                         |                |                               |03803-0157                     |                               |
|(603) 431-1692           |Analog          |BS, FR                         |Bldg 145 North,                |157 CF/SCM                     |
|See Note                 |                |                               |Room 121                       |                               |
|(603) 436-9220           |Analog          |BS, FR                         |302 Newmarket St,              |157 ARW/CP                     |
|                         |                |                               |Bldg 257                       |                               |
|                         |                |                               |Pease ANGB NH                  |                               |
|                         |                |                               |03803-0157                     |                               |

NOTE: (603) 431-1692 is a “Party Line” available at the two locations identified above.

10.2.2  Hot Lines.  Not Applicable.

10.3  Local Exchange and Access Trunks.

10.3.1  Local Exchange Access Analog Trunks.  Not Applicable.

10.3.2  Local Exchange Access Digital Trunks.

10.3.3  Local Exchange Digital (ISDN PRI) Trunks.

|ISDN PRI Circuit ID|D-Channel   |IC              |OG              |2 Way Channel                  |Demarcation                             |
|                   |            |B-Channel       |B-Channel       |B-Channel                      |                                        |
|                   |            |Quantity &      |Quantity &      |Quantity & Signaling           |                                        |
|                   |            |Signaling:      |Signaling:      |(PRI Q.931):                   |                                        |
|                   |            |(PRI Q.931)     |(PRI Q.931)     |Qty                            |                                        |
|PRI #1             |1           |                |                |23                             |Bldg 145, Room 121                      |

10.4  Foreign Exchange (FX) Lines/Trunks.

10.4.1  Analog FX Line/Trunks.  Not Applicable.


10.4.2  Foreign Exchange Digital Trunks.  Not Applicable.

10.5  Transport Channels.  Not Applicable.

10.6  Data Point-to-Point Circuits.  Not Applicable.

10.7  Circuit Extension.

|Circuit ID/Name          |Type             |Demarcation            |User’s Location            |Estimated Mileage |Circuit Description       |
|CLS 13,                  |2 Wire, Voice,   |Bldg 145N              |215 Commerce Way           |3                 |SAYRA Signal Arrangement  |
|GGNA,61045,,NE           |Full Duplex      |                       |Portsmouth NH 03801        |                  |                          |
|CLS 13,                  |2 Wire, Voice,   |Bldg 145N              |215 Commerce Way           |3                 |SAYRA Signal Arrangement  |
|GGNA,61046,NE            |Full Duplex      |                       |Portsmouth NH 03801        |                  |                          |

10.8  Public Listings.

|Description                                                                                             |Qty                                  |
|Public Listing, Government Section                                                                      |1                                    |
|Cross Reference Listing, Alphabetical Section                                                           |1                                    |

10.9  Diversity/Diverse Routing.  Not Applicable.

