
Combined Synopsis / Solicitation - Request for Proposal #NTIA6380-10-0282, Web Content Management Support Services

In accordance with FAR Part 12 and Far Part 13, the Department of Commerce - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) intends to
procure Web Support Services for the National Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA).  This acquisition is being issued as a
Request for Proposal (RFP) under NTIA6380-10-02802.

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with
additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation: offers are being requested, no other
written solicitation will be issued.

The following provisions and clauses apply to this acquisition: FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors Commercial Items; FAR 52.212-3 Alt I,
Offeror Representations and Certifications Commercial Items (Offeror must include a completed copy of this provision with their proposal); FAR
52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions Commercial Items; FAR 52.212-5 Alt II, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or
Executive Orders Commercial Items; FAR 52.222-3, Convict Labor; FAR 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity; FAR 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965;
FAR 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons, FAR 52.223-6, Drug-Free Workplace, FAR 52.225-13, FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds-
Central Contractor Registration, FAR 52.233-3, Protest After Award, FAR 52.233-4 -- Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim, FAR 52.237-2,
Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation, FAR 52.246-16.


Background

NTIA is the President’s principal advisor on telecommunications and Information policy issues.  As such NTIA may be tasked with the management
of Federal agencies’ telecommunications research and engineering; including technical issues for the Federal Government and the private sector.
A key initiative of the present administration is to make the Federal government more transparent and collaborative to customers and other
interested parties through the NTIA public website.

Purpose

The purpose of this procurement is to secure a Contractor for web content management support services that meet or exceed the increasing demand
for publishing information and enable collaboration on the NTIA website.

Scope of Work

This Statement of Work serves to support the NTIA Information Technology Division in developing and maintaining NTIA web sites.  The selected
contractor shall have solid experience in the use of the following skills:  Javascript, PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, and MySQL database.
Expertise in Drupal version 6.x is mandatory, including demonstrable experience in full lifecycle website development using Drupal.
Contributors to the Drupal project will be given special consideration.

The following tasks are intended to be performed primarily on-site in an office space to be provided by NTIA.  The office space will include a
government approved computer with networking access to all required web servers.

• Works with NTIA’s webmaster and project managers to develop technical requirements for Drupal websites for different projects and clients

• Architects Drupal solutions by researching and recommending modules; guiding staff in defining taxonomies, content types, permissions and
groups

• Ensures sites maintain optimum performance and security

• Designs, builds, and develops websites for clients in Drupal, including adding contributed modules and customizing themes

• Oversees and upgrades the Drupal infrastructure including internal Drupal sites

• Provides on-the-job training and support to project staff involved with web projects


Web Site Maintenance

The contractor shall provide maintenance of existing NTIA web sites.  This maintenance may include posting new web content, editing existing
content and archiving obsolete content as directed by ITD staff.  The contractor will perform this maintenance in a timely manner with routine
postings being performed the same day as received or within agreed upon deadlines.  Postings will follow established U.S. Department of Commerce
guidelines as posted at http://www.osec.doc.gov/webresources/.  Postings will include all official NTIA header, footer and sidebar templates as
required.


Web Site Management

The contractor may be asked to participate in the design and development of web content management capabilities for the NTIA web sites.  The
contractor may be asked to suggest and implement improvements to the web workflow processes.


Web Redesign Implementation

The contractor will assist in transferring existing web content into an approved redesigned web site format.  The contractor will assist in
developing new media capabilities for the NTIA web site as they become approved for usage.

Contract Level of Effort

The level of effort is estimated to be that of one FTE.

Security

The NTIA/OSM has determined that this contract is at a moderate risk level



PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The period of performance is for a period of 12 months from the date of award, at 40 hours/week excluding Federal Holidays.  Contractor will not
be paid for Federal Holidays.  Work hours will be from 8:30 am – 5:00 pm including ½ hour unpaid lunch.  The place of performance will be on-
site at an office provided by NTIA.



All interested parties shall submit electronic responses to Chere Sanders at chere.j.sanders@noaa.gov.  Responses must be received no later than
11:59 am EST March 23, 2010 and shall not exceed 30 pages in length.  Please reference solicitation number NTIA6380-10-02802 on all
correspondence to this notice.  All inquiries regarding this notice shall be submitted electronically to Chere.j.sanders@noaa.gov and shall be
received by noon EST March 12, 2010.





Contracting Office Address:

1305 East-West Hwy

SSMC 4 Room 7519

Silver Spring, MD  20910



Place of Performance

Department of Commerce

NTIA

1401 Constitution Avenue, NW

Washington, DC  20230

United States



Primary Point of Contact
Chere J. Sanders

Contract Specialist

Chere.J. Sanders@noaa.gov

Phone: 301-713-0838 ext 199

Fax: 301-713-0809



Department of Commerce
National Telecommunications Information Administration


                                                                       NTIA
                                                            Systems Development Branch
                                                               Web Support Services


                                                                                                                          Statement of Work (SOW)
                                                                                                                                      Version 1.3
                                                                                                                                February 19, 2010




















      Background


1 Mission Statement

The United States Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) is the President's principal
adviser on telecommunications and information policy issues and in this role frequently works with other Executive Branch agencies to develop
and present the Administration's position on these issues.  NTIA manages the Federal use of spectrum; performs cutting-edge telecommunications
research and engineering, including resolving technical telecommunications issues for the Federal government and private sector; and administers
infrastructure and public telecommunications facilities grants.

2 Objectives

A key initiative of the present administration is making the Federal government more transparent, participatory, and collaborative to our
customers and other interested parties.  The NTIA public web site is a critical platform for disseminating agency information to the widest
possible audience.  The purpose of this SOW is to provide Contractor web developer support services to meet the rapidly increasing demand for
publishing information and enabling collaboration on the NTIA web sites. NTIA has a need for an experienced Drupal Developer who can build
content management and social networking websites to support a U.S. Government agency website and projects. The Drupal Developer will be
responsible for the full development lifecycle of the sites. In some cases, the Developer will be solely responsible for building sites, and in
others, he or she will collaborate with NTIA staff, external consultants, and/or other contractors involved in the development process.  The
specific services, detailed in Section 3.0, include the following tasks:


    • Web Site Management Improvements
         o Participate in the design and development of web content management capabilities using Drupal CMS
         o Suggest and help implement improvements to the workflow process

    • Web Redesign and Implementation
         o Transfer existing web content into new design
         o Assist in developing new media capabilities


    • Web Site Maintenance
         o Perform new web postings
         o Develop new web sites
         o Update existing web pages
         o Archive obsolete web pages

      Scope

This Statement of Work serves to support the NTIA Information Technology Division in developing and maintaining NTIA web sites.  The selected
contractor shall have solid experience in the use of the following skills:  Javascript, PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, and MySQL database.
Expertise in Drupal version 6.x is mandatory, including demonstrable experience in full lifecycle website development using Drupal.
Contributors to the Drupal project will be given special consideration

      Statement of Work (SOW)

The following tasks are intended to be performed primarily on-site in an office space to be provided by NTIA.  The office space will include a
government approved computer with networking access to all required web servers.

     1. KEY RESPONSIBILITIES:


• Works with NTIA’s webmaster and project managers to develop technical requirements for Drupal websites for different projects and clients
• Architects Drupal solutions by researching and recommending modules; guiding staff in defining taxonomies, content types, permissions and
groups
• Ensures sites maintain optimum performance and security
• Designs, builds, and develops websites for clients in Drupal, including adding contributed modules and customizing themes
• Oversees and upgrades the Drupal infrastructure including internal Drupal sites
• Provides on-the-job training and support to project staff involved with web projects

      3.2   Web Site Maintenance

The contractor shall provide maintenance of existing NTIA web sites.  This maintenance may include posting new web content, editing existing
content and archiving obsolete content as directed by ITD staff.  The contractor will perform this maintenance in a timely manner with routine
postings being performed the same day as received or within agreed upon deadlines.  Postings will follow established U.S. Department of Commerce
guidelines as posted at http://www.osec.doc.gov/webresources/.  Postings will include all official NTIA header, footer and sidebar templates as
required.

      3.3   Web Site Management

The contractor may be asked to participate in the design and development of web content management capabilities for the NTIA web sites.  The
contractor may be asked to suggest and implement improvements to the web workflow processes.

      3.4   Web Redesign Implementation

The contractor will assist in transferring existing web content into an approved redesigned web site format.  The contractor will assist in
developing new media capabilities for the NTIA web site as they become approved for usage.

      Contract Level of Effort

The level of effort is estimated to be that of one FTE.

      Security

The NTIA/OSM has determined that this contract is at a moderate risk level.
