2G-3G Mobile Network Range Requirements

INTRODUCTION

The 2G-3G Mobile Network Range (Mobile Network Range) will be a testing environment for third party applications.  The subjects under test are the third party applications not the network.  The testing environment must be configurable to emulate a carrier network. Instrumentation will be placed at various access and core network interfaces to collect data on application performance so all core and access network interfaces must be accessible.



The 2G-3G Mobile Network Range high level capabilities are shown below to provide a better understanding of the specific system requirements. The remaining sections of this document define the specific system requirements.



The Mobile Network Range shall support, as a minimum, the following:

Incorporates the entire GSM/UMTS architecture (BTS, MSC, SMSC, etc)

Mobile Originated (MO) and Mobile Terminated (MT) Short Message (SMS)

MO and MT Multi Media Messages (MMS)

MO and MT voice calls

Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC)

Mobile email – Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)

Postpaid Mobile Station (MS)/User Equipment (UE)

Prepaid Mobile Station (MS)/User Equipment (UE)

Ability to simulate mobile roaming

Ability to configure Core and Access Network parameters to support test cases

Ability to monitor all interfaces with either external protocol tools, network monitor tools, or system logging

Ability to monitor MS/UE messages and call logs

ACCESS NETWORK

 RF Requirements: 

The Mobile Network Range shall operate in the UMTS 2100 MHz RF band.

The Mobile Network Range shall operate in the GSM 900/1800 MHz RF bands.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide a minimum of 1 RF carrier. 

The Mobile Network Range shall be delivered with a multi-band omni-directional antenna covering the frequencies of the delivered system.

The antenna shall have a gain not exceeding 10 dBi.  (We’ll be covering <1000 sq ft)

The antenna shall use an N-type female connector.

The antenna input power shall not exceed 200 Watts.

The antenna input impedance shall not exceed 50 Ohms

Access Technology: 

The Mobile Network Range shall support 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G (minimum 3GPP Rel 6) capabilities.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)/ Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) (2.5G).

The Mobile Network Range shall provide Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) service.

The Mobile Network Range shall allow access to configure network parameters for network optimization and configuration.

Upgrade and Evolution

The Mobile Network Range shall be upgradeable to 4G technology (3GPP Release 9).

The Mobile Network Range shall be designed to integrate CDMA Access technology (3GPP2) at a future upgrade.

The Mobile Network Range shall be designed to integrate Wi-MAX access technology at a future upgrade.

Interfaces

All UMTS Access Network Interfaces (including Iub, IuCS, IuPS, IuR, etc) shall support IP.

All GSM Access Network Interfaces (including Abis, A, Gb, etc) shall support IP and/or T1/E1.

Performance and Monitoring

The Mobile Network Range shall allow monitoring of all network interfaces.  NOTE:  This includes air interfaces and cabled network interfaces.  

The Mobile Network Range shall support the broadcast of not less than 16 simultaneous SMS messages.

The Mobile Network Range shall support the broadcast of not less than 16 simultaneous MMS messages.  

The Mobile Network Range shall support not less than 16 simultaneous outbound voice calls.

The Mobile Network Range shall support not less than 4 simultaneous inbound voice calls. 

The Mobile Network Range shall support the required outbound and inbound voice calls simultaneously.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide logging of each segment of the access network.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide access to each segment of the access network to enable full call flow analysis, to include call setup, transmission, and tear down and timing.

CORE NETWORK

The Mobile Network Range core network may be implemented as a single core network that supports 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G, or may be implemented as two separate core networks, one for 2 & 2.5G and one for 3G.  

Access Network Support

The Mobile Network Range core network shall support 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G access technologies.

The Mobile Network Range 3G core network shall be backward compatible with 2G and 2.5G.

Features and Functionality

The Mobile Network Range shall support the following functions and features:

Managed voice mail

Caller ID settings (e.g. displayed, hidden)

Call Forwarding

Call Ignore

International Calling

Conference Calling

Call hold

Call waiting

Inbound/Outbound Call priority setting

Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC)

Mobile Email – SMTP

Over The Air (OTA) Provisioning 

Java enabled SIMs

Non-Java enabled SIMs

Messaging

The Mobile Network Range shall support MO SMS.

The Mobile Network Range shall support MT SMS. 

The Mobile Network Range shall support Binary SMS.

The Mobile Network Range shall support allow/prohibit Binary SMS.

The Mobile Network Range shall support MO MMS. 

The Mobile Network Range shall support MT MMS.

The Mobile Network Range shall support WAP v 1.0.

The Mobile Network Range shall support WAP v 2.0.

The Mobile Network Range shall support Web Browser initiated SMS.

The Mobile Network Range shall support Web Browser initiated MMS.

HLR/VLR Functions

The Mobile Network Range shall support full provisioning of not less than 25 subscribers.

The Mobile Network Range shall support at least 100 simultaneous handsets registered with the network.

Network Timing

The Mobile Network Range shall provide network based timing to all mobile subscriber MS/UEs.

The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of receiving external clocking.

The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of producing internal clocking if an external clock source is not available

The Mobile Network Range shall include a rubidium-based clock source compatible with the delivered system.

The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of accepting Network Time Protocol (NTP) timing for any packet switched network segments.  

Prepaid Services

The Mobile Network Range shall provide a prepaid management system.

The Mobile Network Range shall allow for provisioning of user account credit amounts.

Performance and Monitoring

The Mobile Network Range shall provide logging of each segment of the core network.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide access to each segment of the core network to enable full call flow analysis, to include call setup, transmission, and tear down.

Physical

The Mobile Network Range access network components shall be delivered in a ruggedized rack mount case.

The Mobile Network Range access network components plus ruggedized case lifting requirement shall not exceed those of a 2 man lift. . 

The core network may be mounted in either a ruggedized rack mount case or may be designed for a fixed installation capable of remote trunking.

.  

SUPPORT EQUIPMENT

The Mobile Network Range shall provide an instrumentation suite to analyze mobile subscriber MS/UEs.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide voice call traffic generation.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide SMS traffic generation.

The Mobile Network Range shall provide MMS traffic generation.

The Mobile Network Range traffic generation shall simulate not more than 100 active subscribers in any combination of voice, MMS or SMS.

Miscellaneous equipment:

The vendor shall deliver 5 each 6 ft RF cables that are compatible with the delivered system.

The vendor shall deliver 5 each 10 ft RF cables that are compatible with the delivered system.

The vendor shall deliver 3 each 50 ft antenna cables that are compatible with the delivered system.

The vendor shall deliver 4 each 3 dB attenuators.

The vendor shall deliver 4 each 10 dB attenuators.

The vendor shall deliver 2 each 20 dB attenuators.

The vendor shall deliver 2 each 30 dB attenuators.

The vendor shall deliver 2 each 40 dB attenuator.

The vendor shall deliver 2 signal splitters.

The vendor shall deliver 5 each 6 ft RJ-48 unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cables.

The vendor shall deliver 5 each 10 ft RJ-48 UTP cables.

The vendor shall deliver 2 each 10 ft RJ-48 UTP cross-over cables.  NOTE:  Cables shall be labeled Crossover Cable.  

Training

The vendor shall provide training on the configuration of the network for up to four personnel.

The vendor shall provide training on the operation of the network for up to four personnel.

The vendor shall provide all training at the purchaser’s facility.

Support

The vendor shall provide remote technical support (8a-5p, Mon-Fri) via email and/or telephone for a period of at least one year with an option for renewal upon expiration.


2G-3G Mobile Network Range  Solicitation Number: 
Offeror Technical Evaluation Checklist Meets Requirement Fails Requirement Comments
I INTRODUCTION
The Mobile Network Range shall support, as a minimum, the following:
II ACCESS NETWORK
1.0 RF Requirements: 
a The Mobile Network Range shall operate in the UMTS 2100 MHz RF band.
b The Mobile Network Range shall operate in the GSM 900/1800 MHz RF bands.
c The Mobile Network Range shall provide a minimum of 1 RF carrier. 
d The Mobile Network Range shall be delivered with a multi-band omni-directional antenna covering the frequencies of the delivered system.
e The antenna shall have a gain not exceeding 10 dBi.  (We’ll be covering <1000 sq ft)
f The antenna shall use an N-type female connector.
g The antenna input power shall not exceed 200 Watts.
h The antenna input impedance shall not exceed 50 Ohms
2.0 Access Technology: 
a The Mobile Network Range shall support 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G (minimum 3GPP Rel 6) capabilities.
b The Mobile Network Range shall provide General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)/ Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) (2.5G).
c The Mobile Network Range shall provide Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) service.
d The Mobile Network Range shall allow access to configure network parameters for network optimization and configuration.
3.0 Upgrade and Evolution
a The Mobile Network Range shall be upgradeable to 4G technology (3GPP Release 9).
b The Mobile Network Range shall be designed to integrate CDMA Access technology (3GPP2) at a future upgrade.
c The Mobile Network Range shall be designed to integrate Wi-MAX access technology at a future upgrade.
4.0 Interfaces
a All UMTS Access Network Interfaces (including Iub, IuCS, IuPS, IuR, etc) shall support IP.
b All GSM Access Network Interfaces (including Abis, A, Gb, etc) shall support IP and/or T1/E1.
5.0 Performance and Monitoring
a The Mobile Network Range shall allow monitoring of all network interfaces.  NOTE:  This includes air interfaces and cabled network interfaces.  
b The Mobile Network Range shall support the broadcast of not less than 16 simultaneous SMS messages.
c The Mobile Network Range shall support the broadcast of not less than 16 simultaneous MMS messages.  
d The Mobile Network Range shall support not less than 16 simultaneous outbound voice calls.
e The Mobile Network Range shall support not less than 4 simultaneous inbound voice calls. 
f The Mobile Network Range shall support the required outbound and inbound voice calls simultaneously.
g The Mobile Network Range shall provide logging of each segment of the access network.
h The Mobile Network Range shall provide access to each segment of the access network to enable full call flow analysis, to include call setup, transmission, and tear down and timing.
III CORE NETWORK
The Mobile Network Range core network may be implemented as a single core network that supports 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G, or may be implemented as two separate core networks, one for 2 & 2.5G and one for 3G.  
6.0 Access Network Support
a The Mobile Network Range core network shall support 3GPP 2G, 2.5G, and 3G access technologies.
b The Mobile Network Range 3G core network shall be backward compatible with 2G and 2.5G.
7.0 Features and Functionality
The Mobile Network Range shall support the following functions and features:
a  Managed voice mail
b Caller ID settings (e.g. displayed, hidden)
c Call Forwarding
d Call Ignore
e International Calling
f Conference Calling
g Call hold
h Call waiting
i Inbound/Outbound Call priority setting
j Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC)
k Mobile Email – SMTP
l Over The Air (OTA) Provisioning 
m Java enabled SIMs
n Non-Java enabled SIMs
8.0 Messaging
a The Mobile Network Range shall support MO SMS.
b The Mobile Network Range shall support MT SMS. 
c The Mobile Network Range shall support Binary SMS.
d The Mobile Network Range shall support allow/prohibit Binary SMS.
e The Mobile Network Range shall support MO MMS. 
f The Mobile Network Range shall support MT MMS.
g The Mobile Network Range shall support WAP v 1.0.
h The Mobile Network Range shall support WAP v 2.0.
i The Mobile Network Range shall support Web Browser initiated SMS.
j The Mobile Network Range shall support Web Browser initiated MMS.
9.0 HLR/VLR Functions
a The Mobile Network Range shall support full provisioning of not less than 25 subscribers.
b The Mobile Network Range shall support at least 100 simultaneous handsets registered with the network.
10.0 Network Timing
a The Mobile Network Range shall provide network based timing to all mobile subscriber MS/UEs.
b The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of receiving external clocking.
c The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of producing internal clocking if an external clock source is not available.
d The Mobile Network Range shall include a rubidium-based clock source compatible with the delivered system.
e The Mobile Network Range shall be capable of accepting Network Time Protocol (NTP) timing for any packet switched network segments.  
11.0 Prepaid Services
a The Mobile Network Range shall provide a prepaid management system.
b The Mobile Network Range shall allow for provisioning of user account credit amounts.
12.0 Performance and Monitoring
a The Mobile Network Range shall provide logging of each segment of the core network.
b The Mobile Network Range shall provide access to each segment of the core network to enable full call flow analysis, to include call setup, transmission, and tear down.
IV Physical
13.0 The Mobile Network Range access network components shall be delivered in a ruggedized rack mount case.
14.0 The Mobile Network Range access network components plus ruggedized case lifting requirement shall not exceed those of a 2 man lift. . 
15.0 The core network may be mounted in either a ruggedized rack mount case or may be designed for a fixed installation capable of remote trunking.
16.0 NA
V SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
17.0 The Mobile Network Range shall provide an instrumentation suite to analyze mobile subscriber MS/UEs.
18.0 The Mobile Network Range shall provide voice call traffic generation.
19.0 The Mobile Network Range shall provide SMS traffic generation.
20.0 The Mobile Network Range shall provide MMS traffic generation.
21.0 The Mobile Network Range traffic generation shall simulate not more than 100 active subscribers in any combination of voice, MMS or SMS.
22.0 Miscellaneous equipment:
a The vendor shall deliver 5 each 6 ft RF cables that are compatible with the delivered system.
b The vendor shall deliver 5 each 10 ft RF cables that are compatible with the delivered system.
c The vendor shall deliver 3 each 50 ft antenna cables that are compatible with the delivered system.
d The vendor shall deliver 4 each 3 dB attenuators.
e The vendor shall deliver 4 each 10 dB attenuators.
f The vendor shall deliver 2 each 20 dB attenuators.
g The vendor shall deliver 2 each 30 dB attenuators.
h The vendor shall deliver 2 each 40 dB attenuator.
i The vendor shall deliver 2 signal splitters.
j The vendor shall deliver 5 each 6 ft RJ-48 unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cables.
k The vendor shall deliver 5 each 10 ft RJ-48 UTP cables.
l The vendor shall deliver 2 each 10 ft RJ-48 UTP cross-over cables.  NOTE:  Cables shall be labeled Crossover Cable.  
VI Training
a The vendor shall provide training on the configuration of the network for up to four personnel.
b The vendor shall provide training on the operation of the network for up to four personnel.
c The vendor shall provide all training at the purchaser’s facility.
VII. Support
a The vendor shall provide remote technical support (8a-5p, Mon-Fri) via email and/or telephone for a period of at least one year with an option for renewal upon expiration.
