                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)





















Request for Quotation (RFQ)



RFQ Number: SP4701-13-Q-0084



Industrial Base Management System (IBMS) to include Sustainment for Support Planning Integrated Data Enterprise Readiness System (SPIDERS)




DLA Contracting Services Office located at Philadelphia

700 Robbins Avenue

Bldg 26, Station 26N-8115

Philadelphia, PA 19111



















































Schedule



1.1	Base Period (12 Months)



Period of Performance: February 1, 2014 – January 31, 2015







1.2	Option Period (12 Months)



Period of Performance: February 1, 2015 – January 31, 2016







1.3	Option Period (12 Months)



Period of Performance: February 1, 2016 – January 31, 2017



















Request for Quotation



This Performance Work Statement (PWS) addresses the requirements to application sustainment support for the Industrial Base Management System (IBMS) to include the Support Planning Integrated Data Enterprise Readiness System (SPIDERS). This support will include Communication and Coordination with both the DISA DECC in Ogden UT and the Hybla Valley Data Center, Alexandria VA; Program Management Support; Help Desk and Incident Management; Data Base Management to include STIGS and Patches; COTS Upgrades; Test & Development Environment hosting; COOP capability; Training; and Information Assurance (IA) support. This PWS addresses these requirements.

  

2.1	Award Type



The intent of this RFQ is to award a sustainment support contract for IBMS and SPIDERS. The task order will be a firm fixed price contract in accordance with the terms and conditions of the IBMS/SPIDERS award. 



2.2  	RFQ Point of Contact



Any technical questions, requests for clarification or requests for data in connection with this RFQ must be in writing and shall be directed to the Contracting Officer.  All questions must be submitted in writing, via electronic mail, to the address shown below:



2.3 	BACKGROUND



 The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Information Operations Philadelphia Process Integration Group (J6PSM), in partnership with DLA Acquisition (J-7), has developed a suite of software tools consisting of the Industrial Base Management System and the Support Planning Integrated Data Enterprise Readiness System (SPIDERS). In combination these tools are used to identify wartime readiness requirements; assess DLA contractual coverage and industrial base capabilities; identify shortfalls between the requirements and contractual coverage; and help industrial base specialist to implement preparedness measures to ensure DLA’s capability to support the Military services during major contingencies. 





2.4	IBMS



  IBMS is a system which includes two components: the World Wide Capabilities Assessment Program (WICAP) and the Surge and Sustainment Database (S&S DB). 



WICAP is an internet based and password protected information system used to collect and assess information from DLA’s suppliers. It provides DLA with visibility of industrial capabilities and includes two tools: the Electronic Capability Assessment Plan (eCAP), and the Strategic Material Management System (S2MS). Using eCap DLA provides a web interface for suppliers to preparing their capability assessment plan in response to DLA Request for Proposal (RFP’s) containing surge and sustainment requirements. eCAP is the system of record for vendor’s to submit electronic Capability Assessment Plans for DLA solicitations and is an integral part of daily operations for DLA.  S2MS is planned for use to manage buffer stock investments made by the Warstopper program with tie-ins to DLA Strategic Raw Material.  S2MS has limited use. 



The S&S DB is an internet based system that provides industrial and Contracting Specialists tailored solutions to effectively manage the surge and sustainment coverage process. The S&S DB component is a secure data system that is the sole system for housing long-term contract and solicitation data and coverage information for all surge and sustainment items managed by the Land and Maritime, Aviation, Clothing and Textile (C&T), and Construction and Equipment (C&E) supply chains. It includes the surge check tool, the surge evaluation report, the eCAP review and validation tool, solicitation management, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) tool, and an administration tool. These tools assist at each stage of the surge process, beginning with the pre-solicitation stage, where surge items and requirements are identified, and ending with the post-award stage, where notification of contract award is completed and S&S metrics coverage is calculated. The S&S DB is an integral part of daily operations for DLA.



2.5 	SPIDERS  



SPIDERS is a secure composite web application used by DLA and DLA Troop Support in the Continental United States (CONUS) for readiness, contingency planning, and asset visibility. It primarily supports the Executive Agents (EA) within DLA managing Subsistence, Clothing and Textile (C&T), and Construction and Equipment (C&E). It also supports DLA outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) with a module within SPIDERS known as the Industrial Base Extension (Ibex). Ibex is used to capture OCONUS logistical supplies and services from commercial logistical providers around the globe.  SPIDERS is an active part of daily operations for DLA.



Combined IBMS and SPIDERS represent a one-stop resource center for the Industrial Capabilities program. 





2.6	TEAM ARRANGEMENTS IN SUPPORT OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROGRAMS



DLA is committed to assuring that maximum practicable opportunity is given to Small Business concerns to participate in this acquisition and shall do so via contractor teaming arrangements. Therefore, DLA requires that a minimum of 45% of the total dollars proposed for each base and option period utilizing GSA schedules for the Industrial Base Management System (IBMS) to include Sustainment for Support Planning Integrated Data Enterprise Readiness System (SPIDERS) effort shall be dedicated to Small Business.



The Lead-Vendor, if a large business, is required to form Contractor Teaming Arrangements (CTA) with at least one (1) small business and at least one (1) other small business category referenced below to satisfy the DLA requirement that a minimum of 45% of the total dollars proposed for each base and option period shall be dedicated to Small Business. Each small business teaming partner will receive an individual IDIQ contract number.



Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)



Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)



Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)



HUBZone Firm (HZSB)     



                                                                                                                                                            



One (1) firm may fulfill more than one of the socio-economic categories listed above. For example, in addition to being a small business concern, if that business is also a SDVOSB, and 45% of the total dollars proposed for each base and option period is dedicated to that business, then that would satisfy the requirement that the Lead-Vendor form the requisite CTAs.



Note: no advantage will be given to a proposal that offers a percent of participation greater than 45% of the total dollars for this acquisition. This requirement is only applicable to offerors that are other than small businesses and shall be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis.    



Initial proposals not complying with the socio-economic requirements outlined in this RFQ shall be considered unacceptable. The Lead-Vendor has the overall responsibility for the planning, programming, coordination, management, and performance of all services and tasks under the Task Order(s) issued to its Teaming Partner(s), including the quality and timeliness of those tasks, regardless of the allocation of responsibility for those services and tasks in the CTA.   



The Lead-Vendor will submit one technical team proposal and one overall team price proposal. The lead-Vendor will be responsible for coordinating and overseeing all Task Order(s) issued to the Teaming Partner(s), for coordinating the submission of the offer for this RFQ and will be responsible for the timeliness and quality of all deliverables for Industrial Base Management System (IBMS) to include Sustainment for Support Planning Integrated Data Enterprise Readiness System (SPIDERS) effort.





2.7 	CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NON-DISCLOSURE



Because of the nature of the work to be performed under this task order, a provision setting forth an obligation to prevent and report any potential organizational conflicts of interest (OCI’s) and to protect from disclosure proprietary and source selection sensitive information is applied to this award. The vendor is required to acknowledge this obligation before beginning performance of work under this task order.



2.8	AWARD



	2.8.1	 Award without Discussions



The Government reserves the right to evaluate proposals and make award without discussions.  Proposals should contain the vendor’s best terms within the proposed technical and business approach, to include all evaluation factors.  Additionally, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions and request proposal revisions if it is determined to be necessary.  If a competitive range is established, the Government may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.



	2.8.2 	No Award



The Government reserves the right not to make an award as a result of this RFQ if such award is determined contrary to the best interest of the Government.



2.9	DISPUTES:  AGREEMENT TO USE ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION



In order to maintain its business relationships with industry and to avoid costly litigation, DLA is committed to promoting the use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) techniques, especially mediation.  ADR is a voluntary process whereby a neutral third party assists the parties in resolving a dispute.  DLA invites vendors to join DLA in agreeing to use their best efforts to resolve any pre-award or post award dispute that may arise from this solicitation, and any subsequent award, without litigation.  If unassisted negotiations are unsuccessful, the parties agree to use ADR techniques in an attempt to resolve the dispute.  Likewise, the parties agree that formal protest procedures or litigation will only be considered as a last resort, such as when ADR is unsuccessful or when ADR has been documented to be inappropriate for resolving the dispute.  If the ADR is not successful, the parties retain their existing rights.



2.10	PROPOSAL PREPARATION COST



The Government shall not be responsible or liable for any costs incurred by any parties in the preparation and submission of any proposal in response to this RFQ.



2.11	 KEY PERSONNEL  



Certain skilled, experienced, professional and/or technical personnel are essential for successful accomplishment of the work to be performed under the resultant task order.  These are defined as “Key Personnel” and are those persons whose resumes are to be submitted as part of the technical and business proposal, as outlined in Section 4, for evaluation purposes.  The Contractor agrees to use said key personnel during the performance of the resultant order and that they shall not be removed from the contract work, replaced, or supplemented with additional personnel, unless authorized in accordance with the following provisions:



The Contractor shall not substitute key personnel assigned to perform work under the resultant order without prior approval of the Contracting Officer.  Requests for approval of substitutions shall be in writing and shall provide for a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitution(s).  Requests must contain a complete resume for the proposed substitute, and any other information as requested by the Contracting Officer.  Proposed substitutions must have qualifications that are equal to or higher than the key personnel being augmented.  The Contracting Officer or his authorized representative shall evaluate such requests and promptly notify the Contractor in writing whether the proposed substitution is acceptable.



If the Contracting Officer determines that (1) suitable and timely replacement of key personnel who have been reassigned, terminated or have otherwise become unavailable for the task order work is not reasonably forthcoming, or (2) the resultant substitution would be so substantial as to impair the successful completion of the contract or task order in accordance with the proposal accepted by the Government at the time of task order award, the Contracting Officer may (1) terminate the task order for default or for the convenience of the Government, as appropriate, or (2) at his discretion, if he finds the Contractor at fault for the condition, equitably adjust the contract price downward to compensate the Government for any resultant delay, loss or damage.



The proposal will be evaluated to assess the qualifications of the personnel identified.  All resumes of identified personnel should demonstrate adequate technical qualifications for the identified positions, and experience in performing similar work to ensure that the appropriate resources are effectively assigned to the appropriate tasks.  The evaluations will be based in part on the degree of expertise and experience demonstrated in the resumes. 



2.12	SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION



In accordance with FAR 3.104-4, it is required by your company to mark all material that may be source selection information as described at paragraph (10) of the “source selection information” definition in FAR 2.101, to include the cover page and each page that may contain source selection information with the legend “Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104”.  Although the information in paragraphs (1) through (9) of the definition in FAR 2.101 is considered to be source selection information whether or not marked, all reasonable efforts must be made to mark such material with the same legend.  If you are unsure if particular information is source selection information as defined in FAR 2.101, consult your Office of Counsel.







2.13 	SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS



Please use the following addresses on the outside envelope (including commercial carrier envelopes) to insure accurate delivery of your proposal to DLA Troop Support Business Opportunities Office (the central bid receipt location at DSCP), Building #36, Room 2035.



All proposals must be identified with the Solicitation Number and Closing Date and Time on all outside envelopes.



FOR HANDCARRIED PROPOSALS (includes commercial carriers):



DLA TROOP SUPPORT

BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES OFFICE

BUILDING #36, ROOM # 2035

700 ROBBINS AVENUE

PHILADELPHIA, PA 19111-5092



SOLICITATION #:   SP4701-13-Q-0084

CLOSING DATE & TIME:01/02/2014, 12:00 p.m EST     



Examples of Hand carried Offers include: In-Person delivery by contractor, Fed Ex, Airborne, UPS, DHL, Emery, etc.



FOR MAILED PROPOSALS: (Any mail sent through the U.S. Postal Service, including regular mail, certified mail, first class mail and priority mail).



DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY Troop Support

POST OFFICE BOX 56667

PHILADELPHIA, PA 19111-6667



SOLICITATION #: SP4701-13-Q-0084

CLOSING DATE & TIME:01/02/2014, 12:00 p.m EST



NOTE : Electronically transmitted (e.g. fax, e-mail, etc…) proposals will NOT be accepted!



SUBMISSION AND FORMAT OF PROPOSALS WILL ALSO BE FORWARDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE VENDOR PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS & REQUIREMENTS AS CITED IN SECTION 4 OF THIS RFQ; SPECIFICALLY SECTION 4.2 PROPOSAL VOLUMES.  



The Government will process late submissions of offers in accordance with FAR 52.215.1 .  If an offer is received late and is not eligible for consideration in accordance with FAR 52.215-1 and Alternate I, then the Government will reject that offer without evaluation.







3.0 Performance Work Statement



3.1	 OBJECTIVE



  The goal of this acquisition is to provide the J6P IBMS Program Office with technical support services and innovative solutions for the sustainment and economic efficiency maximization of IBMS and SPIDERS located at the DISA DECC, Ogden UT and IBMS/S&S DB located at the Hybla Valley Data Center, Alexandria VA. The support shall consist of Program Management Support; Help Desk and Incident Management Planning; Database Management to include STIGS and Patches; Communication and Coordination with the DISA DECC; Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Software Upgrades; User Training; Briefings and Data Call Support; Information Assurance (IA) Support Test & Development Environment Hosting; and Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) capability. 



3.2 	DESCRIPTION OF WORK  



The contractor shall perform the work described in this section. 

 

3.2.1 	(Task 1) Kick-off Meeting: The kick-off meeting will be held within 30 days of award. The Program Manager (IBMS PM) will schedule and conduct this meeting, in coordination with the Contracting Officer (KO).  Within 5 business days of the Conference, the contractor shall provide the IBMS PM with meeting minutes and a copy of the slides; a courtesy copy of these, including a list of attendees, shall be provided to the KO.  



The purpose of kick-off meeting is to: 1) explain unique characteristics of the IBMS system; 2) identify stakeholders’ roles and responsibilities; and 3) establish a common understanding of cost, schedule, and performance expectations.  



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

Kickoff Brief and Minutes (Deliverable 1)



   3.2.2 (Task 2) Program Management Support:  

The complexity of the tasks associated with this work statement point to the need for dedicated program support to ensure the task are completed on-time and satisfy the Governments requirements. 

As a part of the Program Manager Support for IBMS and SPIDERS the Contractor shall: 



Track IBMS program tasks and develop plans for the efficient use of resources to support those tasks. This tracking shall be done in coordination with the Government Program Manager (PM) and shall document how the Contractor will accomplish the requirements described in this PWS. Task scheduling shall be documented in a tracking tool that shall include a description and schedule for accomplishing all PWS tasks. The Contractor shall update this tracking document weekly and provide an oral update to demonstrate progress against their plan on a weekly basis.



Respond to data call request from various activities throughout the Department of Defense including J6P, DLA HQ, OUSD(AT&L), and others. These data call request vary in their complexity and can take from as little as an hour of effort up to several days of data collection to answer. They number an estimated 20 a year for the program. The Contractor shall assist the PM through the collection of data in response to these data call request on an ongoing basis.  



Support the IBMS and SPIDERS Configuration Control Board (CCB) and Warstopper Dashboard processes to include the capture & maintenance of user requirements and maintenance of the IBMS IT Requirements Module 

Provide weekly program status call with IBMS PM,  monthly status reports, and monthly program status meetings



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

Tracking tool (Deliverable 2)

Program Plans (Deliverable 3)

Data Call inputs (Deliverable 4)

IBMS IT Requirements Module updates and maintenance (Deliverable 5)

Weekly program status call with PM (Deliverable 6)

Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)

Monthly Program Status Meeting (Deliverable 8)



  

3.2.3 (Task 3) Help Desk and Incident Management Planning for (IBMS):

For IBMS the Contractor shall be the single point of contact for help desk support. The Contractor shall identify and trouble-shoot the underlying problem and conduct a more in-depth analysis (if necessary). The Contractor shall manage help desk support to include but not be limited to: 

Help desk calls 

Individual stakeholder request acceptance and tracking 

Registration processing as well as PKI support 

Tracking & statistical analysis of Help Desk calls and resolution time   



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

IBMS/S&S DB Help Desk monthly activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)





3.2.4 (Task 4) Production, Test, and Stage environment Support and Communication and Coordination with the Hybla Valley Data Center (IBMS)

The production environment for IBMS is hosted and administered at the Hybla Valley Data Center in Alexandria Virginia under an informal agreement between J6P and J3. J3 is responsible for:  maintaining the Operating System (OS) and core software components; Managing the production system servers; Managing user accounts at the OS level; Installing patches; Maintaining server security; Ensuring compliance with Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs), Secure Readiness Reviews (SRRs), and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs); Monitoring system logs; Scheduling backups. These activities and others that may not be listed require coordinated interaction between the Program Office and the Hybla Valley Data Center and or J3.



 To support this coordination the Contractor shall supply the required interaction between the IBMS Program Office and the Hybla Valley Data Center and J3 through communication and coordination for all production environment activities to include but not be limited to:  



Complete defect/bug fixes as they are detected and prioritized by DLA

J6/J3 requirements for information assurance compliance

Installation of new software releases for IBMS systems including patches

Monitoring of all data ingestion and processing of data feeds to keep automated data feeds in operation. 

Implementation of adjustments and minor enhancements as necessary to ensure ingestion files are received and processed 

Maintaining the IBMS intranet web site;

Support, investigate, resolve data feed issues (i.e. data load issues, communication issues, operational issues)



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

Hybla Valley Data Center monthly activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)



3.2.5 (Task 5) User Training (IBMS):   

The IBMS training program has been designed with input from DoD stakeholders and consists of internal training for DLA personnel. The internal training for DLA personnel is provided both on-site in Richmond, VA, Columbus OH, Philadelphia, PA as well as webcast.   



To support IBMS training the Contractor shall: 



Develop end user training material in support of IBMS 

Travel to DLA facilities to conduct this training.  

Document and distribute hard copy training material during training sessions 

Provide a web link to the training material 



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task:

Hard copies of training material for each training event (Deliverable 13)

Web access to training material on IBMS/S&S DB website (Deliverable 14)  

IBMS/S&S DB user training activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)



3.2.6 (Task 6) Help Desk and Incident Management Planning for (SPIDERS):  

The SPIDERS system uses a multi-tiered help desk support structure. Tier 1, the initial level of support, is managed by the J6P. Tier 1 identifies the underlying problem and troubleshoots it or escalates the ticket to the DISA EPC service desk (Tier 2). Tier 2 conducts a more in-depth technical analysis to determine if the problem is database or application related. If the problem is application related the tickets is escalated to Tier 3.



The Contractor shall manage Tier 3 help desk support for SPIDERS providing expert level trouble shooting and analysis. This support will include but not be limited to: 

Responding to help desk tickets /calls and establishing ongoing communication with customer

Finding and communicating solutions to customer problems

Individual stakeholder request acceptance and tracking 

SPIDERS registration processing as well as PKI support

Tracking & statistical analysis of Help Desk calls/resolution time.



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

SPIDERS Help Desk activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)



3.2.7 (Task 7) Production Support and Communication and Coordination with the Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Enterprise Computing Center (DISA DECC) (SPIDERS)



The production environment for SPIDERS is hosted and administered by the DISA DECC. Under a Service Level Agreement (SLA) with DLA the DISA DECC is responsible for:  Maintaining the Operating System (OS) and core software components; Managing the production system servers; Managing user accounts at the OS level; Installing patches; Maintaining server security; Ensuring compliance with Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs), Secure Readiness Reviews (SRRs), and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs); Monitoring system logs; Scheduling backups; and maintaining a Level 2 Service Support Desk. These activities and others that may not be listed require coordinated interaction between the Program Office and the DISA DECC.



To support this coordination the Contractor shall supply the required interaction between the IBMS Program Office and the DISA DECC through communication and coordination for all production environment activities to include but not be limited to:  

Production System Support in both DLA and DISA DECC environments

Monitoring of all data ingestion and processing of data feeds (Fusion center, EBS, C&T Data warehouse, STORES, BSM-E (Fuels), eProcurement) to keep automated data feeds in operation.

Support, investigate, and resolve data feed issues (i.e. data load issues, communication issues, operational issues). Implementing adjustments and minor enhancements as necessary and ensuring ingestion files are received and processed

Support regular maintenance windows for software upgrades and patches

Following DISA rules policies and guidelines for incident management and business reporting 

Responding to production environment (DISA) e-mail and business reporting

Attending/supporting Enterprise Production Center (EPC) Technical Change Board (TCB) Meetings and Change Approval Board (CAB) meetings

Information Technology Service Management system (ITSM) incident entries

Information Technology Service Management system (ITSM) change management CR entries

Conducting monthly production environment (DISA) Maintenance Window preparations

Conducting monthly production environment (DISA)  Maintenance Window Execution

Conducting emergency maintenance windows preparations and execution

Supporting broadcast messages required for planned and unplanned outages/system downtime to include Infospots

Reviewing, understanding and following production environment (DISA) policies for incident reporting as it pertains to the SPIDERS Support Desk tasks.



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

INFO SPOTS (Deliverable 9)

EPC TCB & CAB meeting attendance (Deliverable 10)

SPIDERS DISA monthly activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)



3.2.8 (Task 8) Test, Development, and Stage Environment Support (SPIDERS):



The test, development, and stage environments for SPIDERS shall be hosted and administered by the Contractor using Government Furnished Equipment (GFE). The Contractor shall perform application and system maintenance work to help support the continuing operations of the SPIDERS as well as assisting DLA led efforts in the maintenance of COTS hardware and software. The Contractor shall provide support for all test, development, and stage environment activities to include but no be limited to:



STIGs, SRRs, and IAVAs

Patch assessment

Patch testing

Patch installation  

OS and core software components maintenance 

Server security maintenance 

System log monitoring 

Backup scheduling 

COTS upgrade implementation and testing

COTS maintenance:

Code and defect fixes

Code upgrades for 3rd party utilities, controls and products

Program assets and license tracking

Hardware and COTS software maintenance & renewal tracking

VMware maintenance/upgrades 

Hardware maintenance: Disks, Servers, SAN drives, Veeam, backup Execs, and Acronis backup software products, time phased hardware refresh 

Support upgrades to existing COTS products on SPIDERS

Support evaluation and DLA procurement of new COTS software & provide COTS software maintenance support

Conduct installation of new software releases for SPIDERS including patches



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

Test, Development, and Stage monthly activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)





3.2.9 (Task 9) User Training (SPIDERS):  

The SPIDERS training program has been designed with input from DoD stakeholders and consists of internal training for DLA Troop Support personnel and external training for SPIDERS customers and vendors. The internal training for DLA Troop Support personnel is provided both on-site in Philadelphia as well as webcast. The external training for customers and vendors primarily takes place at conferences and workshops.  



To support SPIDERS training the Contractor shall: 



Develop both internal and external introductory and refresher end user training material

Travel to DoD facilities, conferences, and workshops to conduct scheduled training: internal training for DLA Troop Support Personnel on location in Philadelphia and via webcast; and external training for customers and vendors at designated conferences and workshop’s

Provide on an as need basis demonstrations for new capabilities and functionalities within SPIDERS  

Provide hard copies of all training material for each event and post a link to copies of the training material on the SPIDERS website. 



3.2.10 (Task 10) IA Support (SPIDERS): 

The Contractor shall validate that the SPIDERS IT infrastructure and software designs comply with and address all issues as they apply to DoD Directive 8500.O1E and DoD Instruction 8500.2 as well as all applicable DoD and DLA J6 IA directives, instructions, policies, and procedures.    



The contractor shall ensure that the Authority to Operate (ATO) for SPIDERS is maintained by ensuring the following: 

Provide an Information Assurance Office (IAO) support (certification qualified)

Provide an information assurance Manager (IAM) support (certification qualified)

Prepare and submit DIACAP Submissions

Prepare and submit Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M)

Support IA related issues in support of the DLA IBMS Program Manager

Provide OIA support to achieve and maintain C&A ATO

Provide a customer collaboration to identify course of action.

Update ASSP certificates and accreditation documentation that results from sustainment activities and provide support as needed to maintain SPIDERS ATO.



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

ATO Maintenance (Deliverable 15)

SPIDERS IA activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)





3.2.11 (Task 11) IA Support (IBMS):

IA support for the IBMS/S&S DB is a shared responsibility between IBMS PM at J6P and the Web Applications PM at J6F. The Contractor shall interface with both J6P and J6F to address all issues overseen by the IBMS PM as they apply to DoD Directive 8500.O1E and DoD Instruction 8500.2 as well as all applicable DoD IA directives, instructions, policies, and procedures.  



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

IBMS/S&S DB IA activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)





3.2.12 (Task 12) IBMS and SPIDERS System Development and Business Analysis Requirements



The Contractor shall implement “system enhancements” the requirements of which will be defined and approved through the IBMS Configuration Control Board (CCB). The Contractor shall work with the IBMS CCB to prioritize and schedule work to be completed. The Contractor shall support the definition of detailed development and implementation requirements with Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) for IT development tasks. The Contractor will develop clearly defined high level requirements in support of the Warstopper Dashboard process. These will be incorporated into the Software Requirements Specification.  It is anticipated that this will include work in the following areas:

Implementation of new features based on previous and future requirement discussions with DLA and the IBMS and SPIDERS user base

Enhancement of current features in  IBMS and SPIDERS

Expansion of the capabilities delivered through the SPIDERS DLA Deployment Tool Book (DTB)

Schedule and lead requirements analysis meetings with SMEs at customer locations

Capture, refine, clarify, and document requirements in detail in the Software Requirements Specification 

Integration support to incorporate/integrate DLA supply chains new functionality data into IBMS and SPIDERS

IA enhancements for IBMS and SPIDERS



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task:

Software Requirements Specification (Deliverable 16)

SPIDERS and IBMS/S&S DB development proposals in support of the CCB process (Deliverable 17)





3.2.13 (Task 13) IBMS and SPIDERS Software Application and Data Maintenance

The Contractor shall perform application and systems maintenance work to help support continuing operations of the SPIDERS and IBMS S&S DB systems and servers as well as assisting DLA led efforts in the maintenance of COTS hardware and software. This shall include but not be limited to: 

Minor enhancements to IBMS and SPIDERS applications

Complete defect/bug fixes to IBMS and SPIDERS applications as they are detected and prioritized by DLA

Support of upgrades to COTS products on IBMS and SPIDERS systems

COTS research for new products and assessment including testing

COTS lifecycle research

COTS and system roadmap planning- include 1 year and 3 year COTS refreshments/update plan: Oracle, Windows, future technologies

Monitoring all data ingestion and processing of data feeds to keep automated data feeds in operation. Implement adjustments and minor enhancements as necessary, Ensure ingestion files are received and processed

Support, investigate, resolve data feed (Fusion center, EBS, C&T Data warehouse, STORES, BSM-E (Fuels), eProcurement) issues (i.e. data load issues, communication issues, operational issues)

Maintain Configuration Control and Configuration management IBMS and SPIDERS applications



The following deliverables will be created in support of this task: 

Configuration Management record files (Deliverable 18)

COTS research reports (Deliverable 19)

Minor software enhancements releases to SPIDERS and IBMS/S&S DB (Deliverable 20)

Software Application & Data Maintenance activity input for Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)



3.3	DELIVERABLE SUMMARY 

 

The contractor shall complete the following deliverables for this effort, subject to the customer exercising and funding the respective task. 





3.4	KEY PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS



The support team assigned to all tasks will be required to have experience establishing and satisfying complex system-wide information technology (IT) requirements based upon the analysis of user, policy, regulatory, and resource demands. The following are the minimum requirements for key personnel on the team:  





Project Manager 

Minimum of 10 years of IT experience; 5 years in the role of Project Manager

Experience working on projects with Information Assurance (IA) requirements

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 

Experience with the following COTS products: Computer Associates(CA) Site Minder and Identity Minder; Oracle portal and database software; Microsoft (MS) Windows Server and Project 



Technical Architect. 

Minimum of 10 years of IT experience; 5 years in the role of Technical Architect

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

System/software development, integration, and sustainment experience

Product/Technology experience with the following COTS Software products: Computer Associates SiteMinder R12, Computer Associates Identity Manager R12, Computer Associates Directory Server R12, Oracle WebCenter Interaction Suite, Oracle WebLogic Application Server 9.2, MS Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2012, Red Hat Linux Server 6.2, VMware vSphere 5.1, Veeam Back & Replication, Axosoft OnTime, Subversion, MS Visual SourceSafe, SoftArtisans OfficeWriter suite, MS Visual Studio 2012, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MS Silverlight, C#, ASP, ASP.NET, AJAX, WebServices, Telerik DevCraft, Telerik Kendo UI

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 





Lead Developer

Minimum of 5  years of experience; 5 years in the role of Lead Developer 

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

System/software development, integration, and sustainment experience

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 

Product/Technology experience with the following COTS Software products: Computer Associates SiteMinder R12, Computer Associates Identity Manager R12, Computer Associates Directory Server R12, Oracle WebCenter Interaction Suite, Oracle WebLogic Application Server 9.2, MS Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2012, Red Hat Linux Server 6.2, VMware vSphere 5.1, Veeam Back & Replication, Axosoft OnTime, Subversion, MS Visual SourceSafe

 



Database Lead

Minimum of 10 years IT experience; 5 years in the role of Database Lead

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

System/software development, integration, and sustainment experience

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 

Product/Technology experience with the following COTS Software products: Oracle 10g & 11g Database, Oracle PL/SQL. MS SQL Server 2008, MS Transact-SQL, MS Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2012, Red Hat Linux Server 6.2, Axosoft OnTime, Subversion, MS Visual SourceSafe, Red Gate SQL Developer, ErWin8, SoftArtisans OfficeWriter  

  

Web Applications Developer

Minimum of 5 years IT experience; 5 years in the role of Web Applications Developer  

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 

Product/Technology experience with the following COTS software products:  MS .NET 3.5 Framework, MS Silverlight, Telerik DevCraft, TelerikReports, Telerik Kendo UI, HTML5, CSS3, MS Visual Studio 2012, ASP, ASP.NET, C#, AJAX, WebServices, JavaScript, JQuery,  MS Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2012, MS IIS 6 & 7, MS Expression Studio, Axosoft OnTime, Subversion, MS Visual SourceSafe





Software Engineer

Minimum of 5 years IT experience; 5 years in the role of Software Engineer

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

System/software development, integration, and sustainment experience

Software development process experience; CMMI or Agile Software development processes 

Product/Technology experience with the following COTS Software products: Oracle 10g & 11g Database, Oracle PL/SQL., MS SQL Server 2008, MS Transact-SQL, Red Gate SQL Developer, MS Windows Server 2003, 2008, & 2012, MS Visual Studio 2012, Axosoft On Time, Subversion, MS Visual Source Safe



Information Assurance Manager

Minimum of 5  year’s IT experience; 5 years in the role of Information Assurance Manager

Experience with IT systems hosted in an enterprise level environment

Software development process experience; Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) or Agile Software development processes 

Experience with the following COTS Software products: ARIS, ACART, Vulnerability Management System (VMS)

IA experience with CISSP Certification (Certified Information Systems Security Professional)

Experience with the following products preferred: eMass, ProSight

Must meet the requirement in DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Improvement Program, Incorporating change 2, April 20, 2010 for an IAT-III position.

Secret Clearance or ability to obtain a secret clearance



  

3.5 	GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION (GFI) AND EQUIPMENT (GFE)



 For each of the tasks above, the contractor shall assume the following GFI: 

 

Assume J6 IA/CCB process for review and approval of software changes are no more than 14 calendar days or 10 business days, holidays not included. 

 

 Assume that any unexpected or additional delays incurred due to DLA J6 or DISA Information Assurance requirements or processes shall be taken into consideration for period of performance extensions or schedule change requests on any particular patch or COTS upgrade. 

 

 Assume DLA will procure any COTS software or COTS service agreements in a timely fashion to meet DISA requirements and/or to address IA vulnerabilities. 

 

 

3.6 	PERIOD AND PLACE OF PERFORMANCE 



3.6.1	 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The Period of performance (PoP) of this fixed priced performance based task order includes a one year base period, and two one year options. The base period starts on the date of the task order award and runs continuously for a period of one year. The Governments right to exercise the option is pursuant to FAR Clause 52.217-9. 



3.6.2	 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE 



The work on this contract shall be accomplished primarily at the Contractor’s facility. 



3.7 	TRAVEL 

	

The Contractor shall work full time at the Contractor facility. Occasional travel, when required shall be approved in advance and in writing by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). All travel conducted under the performance requirements of this task order must be conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements and the Federal Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).



The Contractor shall submit a written request for travel to the COR detailing the name of traveler, destination, inclusive dates of travel, and estimated cost. Estimated cost include common carrier cost (i.e. air, rail, etc), rental car costs, and per diem rates (i.e. lodging, meals, and incidental expenses). Once approved, any changes to the itinerary must be approved in advance by the COR. Failure to obtain approval from the COR may result in denial of payment. 



3.8 	APPLICABLE PUBLICATIONS AND REFERENCES 



Contractors in performance of the above tasks shall comply with all of the following DoD & DLA IA policies (http://iase.disa.mil/policy-guidance/index.html) and requirements; major IA references follow and additional references will be provided as needed (* = internal documents - will be provided as appropriate): 



• DoD Directive 8500.01E Information Assurance 

• DoD Instruction 8500.2 Information Assurance Implementation 

• Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) Instruction NUMBER 8510.01 

• DoDI 8580.1 Information Assurance (IA) in the Defense Acquisition System 

• The Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) 

• DoD Instruction 8551.1 Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM) 

• DoD Instruction 8520.02, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling 

• DoD Instruction 8520.03, Identity Authentication for Information Systems 

• DISA and NSA Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) 

• National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Security Standards and Publications 

• CNSS Instruction No. 4009 National Information Assurance (IA) Glossary 

• DoD Instruction 8552.01: Use of Mobile Code Technologies in DoD Information Systems 

• Implementation Guide for DoDI 8552.01 - Use of Mobile Code in DoD Information Systems 

• DoD Policy Memorandum: Mobile Code Technologies Risk Category List 

• DoDD 5200.2-R Personnel Security Program 

• DoDD 5200.1-R Information Security Program 

• DoDD 5230.09 Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release 

• DoDI 5230.29 Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release 

• DoD Directive 8570.01 Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management 

• DoD 8570.01-M Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Program Manual 

• DoD Web Site Policies and Procedures DoD Web Site Administration Policies and Procedures (with amendments) 

• CJCSM 6510.01 Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND) Volume 1 (Incident Handling Program) 

• CJCSI 6510.01F Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND) 

• DLA IA Related Issuances (One Book) * 

• Defense Logistics Agency Information Technology Solutions Stand





3.9	QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN (QASP)



Sections 2.2 and 2.3 of this Performance Work Statement (PWS) specify the tasks to be performed and the required deliverables.  In accordance with the Contract Administration/Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan, the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR), with the assistance of designated technical assistants, will measure and evaluate the vendor’s performance of this PWS in terms of:



Performance standards shall be based on the timeliness and quality of work of the tasking’s and deliverables provided under the contract. 



Timeliness will be measured by the completion of tasking’s and/or the submission of deliverables within the schedule set forth by the Government during the performance of the task order. 



Quality will be measured based on the Government’s determination of the validity, accuracy, clarity, and usefulness of a deliverable or if the work performance met the expected outcomes as was communicated to the Contractor by the Government. 



Work will be assessed based on the grades and descriptions below:







3.9.1 	 Inspection and Acceptance Criteria



Final inspection and acceptance of all work performed, reports and other deliverables will be performed at the place of delivery by the COR.



Purpose of Performance Measures



Performance measures will be used to assess the vendor’s performance under this task order to determine whether the vendor is performing at acceptable levels in order to apply disincentive/incentives to task order payments.  The payments will be monthly upon acceptance of a monthly deliverable.  The deliverable will be a monthly report demonstrating successful performance of all required tasks. 



The Government will make objective and subjective assessments of the vendor’s performance to determine whether vendor performance is acceptable.  The vendor is expected to perform all functions in a professional manner and prepare accurate and timely documentation.  Progress will be tracked based on the milestone event when the vendor receives a specific tasking.  Performance may vary with the complexity of the task.  The number of completed actions will be balanced against the quality of this output.  It is expected that the documentation and procedures will comply with all major regulatory and process requirements and agency policies and procedures.





3.10	CONTRACTING OFFICER REPRESENTATIVE (COR) 



The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) will be Martina Johnson, IBMS Program Manager, DLA Troop Support, 4800 Mark Center Drive, Alexandria – Mark Center, VA 22311.   





3.11	Invoicing and Payment



Payment is subject to FAR 52.232-25 Prompt Payment.  



Invoices should be submitted through Wide Are Work Flow (WAWF).

WAWF Invoice Instructions are provided as follows:	



In accordance with DFARS Clause 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests (in full text below), the Defense Logistics Agency will utilize the Department of Defense (DoD) Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) Receipt and Acceptance System to accept supplies/services delivered under this contract/order.  This web-based system located at  provides technology for DoD contractors and authorized DoD personnel to generate, capture, and process receipt and payment-related documentation in a paperless environment.  Invoices for supplies/services rendered under this contract/order shall be submitted electronically through WAWF.  Submission of hard copy DD250s and Invoices will no longer be accepted for payment.



It is recommended that the person in your company designated as the System for Award Management (SAM) Electronic Business (EB) Point of Contact (POC) and anyone responsible for submission of invoices use the online training system for WAWF at .   



The designated SAM EB POC is responsible for activating the company’s CAGE code on WAWF by calling 1-866-618-5988.  Once the company is activated, the CCR EB POC must self-register under the company’s CAGE code on WAWF and follow the instructions for a group administrator.  After the company is set up on WAWF, every additional person responsible for submitting invoices must self-register for the role of vendor under the company’s CAGE code at .



The following information is provided for completion of the invoice in WAWF.











Attachments created in a Microsoft Office product may be attached to the WAWF invoice (e.g., backup documentation such as delivery reports, etc.).  Maximum limit for size of each attachment file is 2 MB.  Maximum file size per invoice is 5 MB. 



After clicking the “submit” button, a Notice of Successful/Unsuccessful Submission will appear.  This screen contains a “Send More E-Mail Notifications” button.  Click on this button and the e-mail address listed below and add others as desired.  This additional notification is important to ensure the Government receiver/acceptor is aware that the invoice documents have been submitted into the WAWF system





The contractor shall submit invoices for payment per contract terms.

The basis of payment will be annotated on each individual task order.

252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.  ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS AND RECEIVING REPORTS (MAR 2008)

(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause-

(1) “Contract financing payment” and “invoice payment” have the meanings given in section 32.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(2)  “Electronic form” means any automated system that transmits information electronically from the initiating system to all affected systems.  Facsimile, e-mail, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms for submission of payment requests.  However, scanned documents are acceptable when they are part of a submission of a payment request made using Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) or another electronic form authorized by the Contracting Officer.

(3)  “Payment request” means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the Contractor under this contract.

(b)  Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests and receiving reports using WAWF, in one of the following electronic formats that WAWF accepts:  Electronic Data Interchange, Secure File Transfer Protocol, or World Wide Web input.  Information regarding WAWF is available on the Internet at .

(c)  the contractor may submit a payment request and receiving request and receiving   report using other than WAWF only when—

(1)  The Contracting Officer authorizes use of another electronic form.  With such an authorization, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer shall agree to a plan, which shall include a timeline, specifying when the Contractor will transfer to WAWF;

(2) DoD is unable to receive a payment request or provide acceptance in electronic form;

(3)  The Contracting Officer administering the contract for payment has determined, in writing, that electronic submission would be unduly burdensome to the Contractor.  In such cases, the Contractor shall include a copy of the Contracting Officer’s determination with each request for payment; or

(4)  DoD makes payment for commercial transportation services provided under a Government rate tender or a contact for transportation services using a DoD- approved electronic third party payment system or other exempted vendor payment/invoicing system (e.g., PowerTrack, Transportation Financial Management System, and Cargo and Billing System).

(d) The Contractor shall submit any non-electronic payment requests using the method or methods specified in Section G of the contract.

(e)  In addition to the requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall meet the requirements of the appropriate payment clauses in this contract when submitting payment requests.   

DFARS 252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS  (JUN 2012)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause—

“Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC)” is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization.

“Document type” means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF).

“Local processing office (LPO)” is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system.

(b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by DFARS , Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.

(c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall—

(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the Central Contractor Registration at ; and

(2) Be registered to use WAWF at  following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this web site.

(d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the “Web Based Training” link on the WAWF home page at 

(e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol.

(f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract/order:

(1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s).

2 in 1

Note: If a “Combo” document type is identified but not supportable by the Contractor’s business systems, an “Invoice” (stand-alone) and “Receiving Report” (stand-alone) document type may be used instead.)

(2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the contracting officer.  SL4818

(3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the system.

Routing Data Table*





 (4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request.

(5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the e-mail address identified below in the “Send Additional Email Notifications” field of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system. 	James.Hansel@dla.mil

 (g) WAWF point of contact.

(1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity’s WAWF point of contact.

(2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988.



4.0  Evaluation Factors and Award Process



4.1 	Basis for Award 



The award shall be made to the responsible Vendor whose proposal is determined to be Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA). The LPTA procedures are in accordance with FAR 15.101-2, as supplemented.  This is a competitive Low Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA) award in which technical acceptability is considered the most important factor.  By submission of its offer, the Offeror accepts all solicitation requirements, including terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements.  All technically acceptable offerors, with satisfactory past performance, shall be treated equally except for their prices.  Failure to meet a requirement may result in an offer being determined technically unacceptable. Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation and conditions and provide complete accompanying rationale.

 

The proposal must demonstrate to the Government's satisfaction that the offeror will provide a solution and approach that will ensure the successful accomplishment of the stated objectives consistent with the stated performance and technical parameters.  The Government will evaluate the offerors on the basis of the material presented in the written proposals.  However, the Government may use information other than that provided by the offeror in its evaluation, including past performance information. Proposal information provided for one factor may be used to assess other factors if the Government deems it appropriate.  



4.2	Evaluation Factors  



The following technical (i.e., non-price) factors are listed in descending order of importance and shall be used to evaluate offers.  These factors are described in greater detail below:



 The non-price factors are listed below:  





Technical factors are considered significantly more important than cost or price.





Technical Evaluation Factors



4.2.1.1	Factor 1: Technical Acceptability



The Government will review and evaluate the Vendor’s plan to provide Sustainment Services for tasks identified in the PWS.  The Government will evaluate the Vendor’s proposal for how it will: describe its end-state vision and strategy for achieving technical support services and innovative solutions for the sustainment and economic efficiency maximization of IBMS and SPIDERS.



The Government will evaluate how the Vendor’s plan proposes to support: IBMS and SPIDERS









Factor 2: Satisfactory Past Performance



Past Performance shall be used as an evaluation factor within the LPTA selection process.  



    (1)  Aspects of Past Performance Evaluation.  The past performance evaluation results in an assessment of the offeror’s probability of meeting the minimum past performance solicitation requirements.  This assessment is based on the offeror’s record of recent and relevant past performance information that pertain to the products and/or services outlined in the solicitation requirements.  The vendor shall identify its past performance information as requested in the solicitation.  The basis of this assessment is from two aspects:  1) Recency and Relevancy and 2) Quality of Historical Contracts.  In rating past performance, the following will be considered:



(a)  Recency and Relevancy.  The first aspect is to evaluate whether the vendor’s present / past performance is relevant or not relevant to the effort to be acquired.  In establishing what is relevant for the acquisition, consideration shall be given to what aspects of a vendor’s contract history would give the most confidence that the vendor will satisfy the current procurement.  Common elements of relevancy include similarity of service / support, complexity, dollar value, contract type and degree of subcontract / teaming.  A Relevancy rating will be assigned as shown in Table 2.  










(b)  Quality of Historical Contracts:  The second aspect is to determine how well the vendor performed on present / past contracts.  The past performance evaluation process gathers information from customers on how well the vendor performed those past contracts and includes history of successful completion of projects; history of producing high-quality reports and deliverables; commitment to customer satisfaction and history of staying on schedule and within budget.  Past Performance information may be obtained from Past Performance Questionnaires, Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), Contractor Performance / Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) or other sources available to the Government.  The Past Performance evaluation process does not establish, create, or change the existing record and history of the offeror’s past performance on present / past contracts.  The Quality rating of Acceptable, Unacceptable, or Neutral will be assigned as shown in Table 3.










(2)  Past Performance Evaluation Rating.  Past Performance will be rated on an “acceptable” or “unacceptable” basis using the ratings in Table 4.







Note:  In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance in accordance with FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv).  Therefore, the offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance.  In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, “unknown” shall be considered “acceptable.” 



(3)  Sources of Past Performance Information for Evaluation.  Sources are as follows: 



(a)  Past performance information may be provided by the offeror, as solicited. 



(b)  Past performance information may be obtained from questionnaires tailored to the circumstances of the acquisition.



(c)  Past performance information shall be obtained from any other sources available to the Government to include, but not limited to, PPIRS or other databases; interviews with Program Managers, Contracting Officers, and Fee-Determining Officials; and the Defense Contract Management Agency.





Factor 3: Price Evaluation



The government shall conduct a price evaluation of all technically acceptable offers with satisfactory past performance including any option prices if applicable.





4.3 ACQUISITION PRICE



Proposals are to be based on prices and labor categories cited in accordance with the offeror’s IDIQ.  The prices proposed will be based on the labor categories and hourly rates provided from the offeror’s IDIQ contract and will be compared to other offerors rates and discounts.  



The Contracting Officer’s price evaluation will also include review of the following pricing components:



Pricing in accordance with GSA Schedule labor rates and any proposed discounts for all periods of performance in accordance with provisions set forth under FAR Part 12.209.  

Vendor’s proposed labor mix and Level of Effort as described by the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS).

Proposed pricing and discounts for all Tasks to ensure completeness and reasonableness in accordance with vendor’s IDIQ. 

The existence of full and open competition (after elimination of other than SB)..

Comparison to the Independent Government Cost Estimate.



Total acquisition price will be evaluated.  Total acquisition price consists of total dollar value of the Base period, plus Option-Year 1 and Option-Year 2.



Vendors will be required to submit price proposals in accordance with the following:



Monthly and annual prices shall be provided; The price proposal will reflect the vendor’s understanding of the tasks set forth under the PWS; Vendors shall identify any assumptions that pertain to the prices proposed; Vendors must demonstrate the relationship of pricing structures to the technical proposal; It is up to the vendor to determine the number of labor categories for each task.









5. VENDOR PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS



5.1 	Vendor Instructions  



This section specifies the format and content that vendors shall use for proposals responding to this RFQ.  It is required that vendors respond in accordance with these instructions.  The goal is not to restrict vendors in the manner in which they will perform their work but rather to ensure a certain degree of uniformity in the format of the responses for evaluation purposes. In order to receive full consideration, vendors are encouraged to ensure that the information provided within their proposal is factual, accurate and complete.

 

Each vendor shall submit a proposal that clearly and concisely describes and defines the vendor’s response to the objectives/requirements contained in the RFQ.  Unnecessary elaboration or other presentations beyond that sufficient to present a complete and effective proposal are not desired.  Elaborate artwork, expensive paper or bindings, and expensive visual or other presentation aids are neither necessary nor desired.  The proposal shall contain all the pertinent information in sufficient detail in the area of the proposal where it contributes most critically to the discussion of the same information.  Vendors should also identify risks inherent in their proposal, techniques used to mitigate those risks, and where such techniques were successfully employed in other contracts.



If a vendor does not understand the instructions contained herein, then written notification should be provided to the Contracting Officer for clarification. A request for clarification should be submitted sufficiently in advance of the deadline for the receipt of offers to get an answer in time to meet the deadline.  The Government will publish the questions asked and the answers given, and distribute them to all prospective vendors.  

 

Vendors who take exception to the provisions, terms and conditions, or any other aspect, of this request, may provide for such exceptions in Section 4.2. Alternate proposals are not authorized.  Objections to any terms and conditions of the RFQ may make the offer unacceptable.  A vendor may correct a deficiency only through discussions.

 

The Government will process late submissions of offers in accordance with FAR 52.215.1.  If an offer is received late and is not eligible for consideration in accordance with FAR 52.215-1 and Alternate I, then the Government will reject that offer without evaluation.



5.2 	Proposal Volumes 



Offerors are required to submit their proposals in separate volumes as indicated below.  There shall be no reference to pricing included as part of the Technical Proposal Information.

 



Each volume shall contain the following items in addition to the technical/descriptive data required by the RFQ:





Note: the cover page and Table of Contents are not included in page counts with respect to page limitations



5.3	Written Response



The vendor’s written proposal must be organized and tabbed according to the following format, within the page limitations indicated and including chapters for each of the following:



* This page count does not include resumes.



The offeror is responsible for providing adequate documentation to enable a thorough evaluation of the proposal.



Offerors shall submit four (5) copies of the Technical Proposal and two (2) copies of the Price Proposal to the Contracting Officer referenced in Section 1.  The copies should be in the following format: one (1) original signed offer “double sided” and the remainder “double sided”.   Use of standard letter size paper with no binding is required.  



The proposal must contain a letter committing the vendor's firm to the proposal and stating its validity for a period of at least 120 days.  The letter must be signed by a responsible officer or partner/principal of the firm that is authorized to bind the organization contractually. 



No e-mail or facsimile copies of the proposal will be accepted.



5.4	Proposal Content



It is required that offerors address as completely as possible the evaluation requirements set forth in Sections 3  and comply with the page specifications.



Note: Pages exceeding the respective page limitations will not be considered part of the proposal.



Price:

A proposed total hourly rate for all services provided as part of the proposal that reflects the labor hour rates and level of effort proposed. 

A breakdown of labor categories, labor hours for each category referenced and the labor rate being applied for this tasking.

Clearly indicate what discounts are being offered against the firm’s market rates proposed. 

Demonstrate how the pricing data provided above will equate to the total fixed price, monthly rate proposed and total value of the resultant task order.

The total acquisition price will be determined by summing the total proposed and discounted price for labor plus the total budgeted value for travel expenses.

Pricing should be based on the rates included in the award.

Provide pricing broken down by proposed task and subtasks.





5.4.1 TECHNICAL PROPOSAL (VOLUME I)



The vendor’s proposal shall include a work breakdown structure (WBS) describing the type of employees to be dedicated to this effort and the level of effort proposed for meeting these objectives.



5.4.1.1 Technical Acceptability (Volume 1/Chapter 1)



The proposal shall describe in detail the technical approach to be employed to accomplish the tasks listed in the statement of work.  The proposal shall document a clear understanding of the work to be accomplished and provide a detailed plan for achieving objectives.  It is essential that the plan includes specific methodology for achieving positive outcomes and that the methodology is flexible enough to accomplish changes/modifications to the underlying IBMS/SPIDERS system.  Also include a milestone/performance schedule.   

   

Satisfactory Past Performance  (Volume 1/Chapter 2)



The offeror shall submit satisfactory past performance.  When performance is evaluated, the outcome is either satisfactory or unsatisfactory. Unsatisfactory performance will disqualify an offeror from award.



Note:  In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance in accordance with FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv).  Therefore, the offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance.  In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, “unknown” shall be considered “acceptable.”



Sources of Past Performance Information for Evaluation.  Sources are as follows: 



(a)  Past performance information may be provided by the offeror, as solicited. 



(b)  Past performance information may be obtained from questionnaires tailored to the circumstances of the acquisition.



(c)  Past performance information shall be obtained from any other sources available to the Government to include, but not limited to, PPIRS or other databases; interviews with Program Managers, Contracting Officers, and Fee-Determining Officials; and the Defense Contract Management Agency.





5.5 Cost/Price Proposal (Volume II) 



	5.5.1 Pricing Instructions



Vendors are required to submit price proposals for the base period and all option periods in accordance with this section.



The vendor must submit a detailed price proposal for the complete services for all labor categories in Section 2.  The price detail shall include monthly pricing based on fixed prices.  The vendor shall provide a breakdown consistent with the proposed SOW by number of labor hours, labor categories, labor rates and discounted labor rates.  Any changes to prices shall be clearly identified for different periods.  



Pricing should be broken down:

A proposed total hourly rate for all services provided as part of the proposal that reflects the labor hour rates and level of effort proposed. 

A breakdown of labor categories, labor hours for each category referenced and the labor rate being applied for this tasking.

Clearly indicate what discounts are being offered against the firm’s market rates proposed. 

Demonstrate how the pricing data provided above will equate to the total fixed price, monthly rate proposed and total value of the resultant task order.

The total acquisition price will be determined by summing the total proposed and discounted price for labor plus the total budgeted value for travel expenses.

Pricing should be based on the rates included in the award.

Provide pricing broken down by proposed task and subtasks.



The vendor must demonstrate the relationship of pricing structure to the technical proposal and explain price/cost tradeoffs made regarding proposed technical approach.



5.6	Travel 

The Contractor may be required by the Government to travel both within the Continental United States (CONUS) and outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) in performance of this contract. When travel is required, the contractor shall obtain prior written approval from the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). Information shall include approximate travel dates, expected duration, origin and destination, purpose, estimated costs and number/names of personnel traveling. 



Travel reimbursement will be in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation or Joint 

Travel Regulation (JTR), Volume 2, Paragraph C6002, as applicable. The airfare shall be the prevailing rates for commercial airlines at tourist class. When required, the most reasonable means of ground transportation (i.e., taxi, bus, car rental) shall also be used. The Contractor shall submit copies of expense reports and receipts with monthly invoices for payment. 

6.0 ADDITIONAL CLAUSES



52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. 



Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 3 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed  36 months. 



FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):

FAR:  ; 

DFARS: 

DLAD: 





52.222-50   Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) 

As prescribed in (a), insert the following clause: 

Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) 

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Coercion” means— 

(1) Threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; 

(2) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or 

(3) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. 

“Commercial sex act” means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person. 

“Debt bondage” means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of his or her personal services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined. 

“Employee” means an employee of the Contractor directly engaged in the performance of work under the contract who has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance. 

“Forced Labor” means knowingly providing or obtaining the labor or services of a person— 

(1) By threats of serious harm to, or physical restraint against, that person or another person; 

(2) By means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the person to believe that, if the person did not perform such labor or services, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or 

(3) By means of the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process. 

“Involuntary servitude” includes a condition of servitude induced by means of— 

Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such conditions, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or 

The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. 

 “Severe forms of trafficking in persons” means— 

(1) Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or 

(2) The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery. 

“Sex trafficking” means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act. 

(b) Policy. The United States Government has adopted a zero tolerance policy regarding trafficking in persons. Contractors and contractor employees shall not— 

(1) Engage in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract; 

(2) Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract; or 

(3) Use forced labor in the performance of the contract. 

(c) Contractor requirements. The Contractor shall— 

(1) Notify its employees of— 

(i) The United States Government’s zero tolerance policy described in paragraph (b) of this clause; and 

(ii) The actions that will be taken against employees for violations of this policy. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, removal from the contract, reduction in benefits, or termination of employment; and 

Take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees or subcontractor that violate the policy in paragraph (b) of this clause. 

(d) Notification. The Vendor shall inform the Contracting Officer immediately of— 

(1) Any information it receives from any source (including host country law enforcement) that alleges a Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee has engaged in conduct that violates this policy; and 

(2) Any actions taken against Contractor employees, subcontractor, or subcontractor employees pursuant to this clause. 

(e) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor’s failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), or (f) of this clause may result in— 

(1) Requiring the Contractor to remove a Contractor employee or employees from the performance of the contract; 

(2) Requiring the Contractor to terminate a subcontract; 

(3) Suspension of contract payments; 

(4) Loss of award fee, consistent with the award fee plan, for the performance period in which the Government determined Contractor non-compliance; 

(5) Termination of the contract for default or cause, in accordance with the termination clause of this contract; or 

(6) Suspension or debarment. 

(f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts. 

(g) Mitigating Factor. The Contracting Officer may consider whether the Contractor had a Trafficking in Persons awareness program at the time of the violation as a mitigating factor when determining remedies. Additional information about Trafficking in Persons and examples of awareness programs can be found at the website for the Department of State’s Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at http://www.state.gov/g/tip. 

(End of clause) 

52.215-9023  Reverse Auction.

As prescribed in 15.408-90(c)(1), use the following provision.

REVERSE AUCTION (NOV 2012)



The Contracting Officer may utilize on-line reverse auctioning as a means of conducting price discussions under this solicitation. If the Contracting Officer does not conduct a reverse auction, award may be made on the basis of initial offers or following discussions not using reverse

auctioning as a pricing technique. If the Contracting Officer decides to use on-line reverse auctioning to conduct price negotiations, the Contracting Officer will notify offerors of this decision and the following provisions will apply.



(a) The award decision will be made in accordance with the evaluation factors as set forth in the solicitation. The reverse on-line auction will be used as a pricing technique during discussions to establish the final offered prices from each offeror. These prices will be used in conjunction with the evaluation factors stated elsewhere in the solicitation in order to make the award decision in accordance with the basis for award stated in the solicitation.



(b)  Following the decision to conduct discussions using on-line reverse auctioning as a pricing technique, the Contracting Officer or his/her representative will provide offerors determined to be in the competitive range with information concerning the on-line auction process. The Government intends to use a commercial web-based product to conduct the reverse auction.



(c)  Prior to or simultaneously with conducting the on-line reverse auction, the Contracting Officer may hold discussions with the offerors concerning matters appropriate for discussion, such as issues involving technical proposals or unbalanced pricing.



(d) The lowest offeror’s price(s) for each round of the reverse auction will be disclosed to other offerors and anyone else having authorized access to the on-line auction. This disclosure is anonymous, meaning that each offeror’s identity will be concealed from other offerors (although it will be known to the Government; only a generic identifier will be used for each offeror’s proposed pricing, such as “Offeror A” or “lowest-priced offeror”).  By submitting a proposal in response to the solicitation, offerors agree to participate in the reverse auction and that their prices may be disclosed, including to other offerors, during the reverse auction.



(e) The reverse auction system currently  in use designates offers as "Lead," meaning the current low price in that auction, or "Not Lead," meaning not the current low price in that auction.  In the event of a tie offer, the reverse auction provider's system designates the first offer of that  price as "Lead" and the second or subsequent offer of that price as "Not Lead."   Offerors  shall not submit a

tie offer, since this is inconsistent  with the purpose of the reverse auction.  If a tie offer is submitted, the "Not Lead" offeror that submitted  the tie offer must offer a changed  price; it will be ineligible for

award  if the final price in the auction  is the tie offer price.



252.227-7013 Rights in Technical Data--Noncommercial Items.

As prescribed in (a), use the following clause:

RIGHTS IN TECHNICAL DATA--NONCOMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause—

(1) “Computer data base” means a collection of data recorded in a form capable of being processed by a computer. The term does not include computer software.

(2) “Computer program” means a set of instructions, rules, or routines recorded in a form that is capable of causing a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations.

(3) “Computer software” means computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include computer data bases or computer software documentation.

(4) “Computer software documentation” means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software.

(5) "Covered Government support contractor" means a contractor under a contract, the primary purpose of which is to furnish independent and impartial advice or technical assistance directly to the Government in support of the Government’s management and oversight of a program or effort (rather than to directly furnish an end item or service to accomplish a program or effort), provided that the contractor—

(i) Is not affiliated with the prime contractor or a first-tier subcontractor on the program or effort, or with any direct competitor of such prime contractor or any such first-tier subcontractor in furnishing end items or services of the type developed or produced on the program or effort; and

(ii) Receives access to technical data or computer software for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at , Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government-Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.

(6) “Detailed manufacturing or process data” means technical data that 

describe the steps, sequences, and conditions of manufacturing, processing or assembly used by the manufacturer to produce an item or component or to perform a process.

(7) “Developed” means that an item, component, or process exists and is

workable. Thus, the item or component must have been constructed or the process practiced. Workability is generally established when the item, component, or process has been analyzed or tested sufficiently to demonstrate to reasonable people skilled in the applicable art that there is a high probability that it will operate as intended. Whether, how much, and what type of analysis or testing is required to establish workability depends on the nature of the item, component, or process, and the state of the art. To be considered “developed,” the item, component, or process need not be at the stage where it could be offered for sale or sold on the commercial market, nor must the item, component, or process be actually reduced to practice within the meaning of Title 35 of the United States Code.

(8) “Developed exclusively at private expense” means development was

accomplished entirely with costs charged to indirect cost pools, costs not allocated to a government contract, or any combination thereof.

(i) Private expense determinations should be made at the lowest practicable level.

(ii) Under fixed-price contracts, when total costs are greater than the firm-fixed-price or ceiling price of the contract, the additional development costs necessary to complete development shall not be considered when determining whether development was at government, private, or mixed expense.

(9) “Developed exclusively with government funds” means development was not

accomplished exclusively or partially at private expense.

(10) “Developed with mixed funding” means development was accomplished

partially with costs charged to indirect cost pools and/or costs not allocated to a government contract, and partially with costs charged directly to a government contract.

(11) “Form, fit, and function data” means technical data that describes the

required overall physical, functional, and performance characteristics (along with the qualification requirements, if applicable) of an item, component, or process to the extent necessary to permit identification of physically and functionally interchangeable items.

(12) “Government purpose” means any activity in which the United States 

Government is a party, including cooperative agreements with international or multi-national defense organizations, or sales or transfers by the United States Government to foreign governments or international organizations. Government purposes include competitive procurement, but do not include the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data for commercial purposes or authorize others to do so.

(13) “Government purpose rights” means the rights to—

(i) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data within the Government without restriction; and

(ii) Release or disclose technical data outside the Government and authorize persons to whom release or disclosure has been made to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose that data for United States government purposes.

(14) “Limited rights” means the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, 

perform, display, or disclose technical data, in whole or in part, within the Government. The Government may not, without the written permission of the party asserting limited rights, release or disclose the technical data outside the Government, use the technical data for manufacture, or authorize the technical data to be used by another party,

except that the Government may reproduce, release, or disclose such data or authorize 

the use or reproduction of the data by persons outside the Government if—

(i) The reproduction, release, disclosure, or use is—

(A) Necessary for emergency repair and overhaul; or

(B) A release or disclosure to—

(1) A covered Government support contractor in performance of its covered Government support contract for use, modification, reproduction, performance, display, or release or disclosure to a person authorized to receive limited rights technical data; or

(2) A foreign government, of technical data other than detailed 

manufacturing or process data, when use of such data by the foreign government is in the interest of the Government and is required for evaluational or informational purposes;

(ii) The recipient of the technical data is subject to a prohibition on the

further reproduction, release, disclosure, or use of the technical data; and

(iii) The contractor or subcontractor asserting the restriction is notified of 

such reproduction, release, disclosure, or use.

(15) “Technical data” means recorded information, regardless of the form or

method of the recording, of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation). The term does not include computer software or data incidental to contract administration, such as financial and/or management information.

(16) “Unlimited rights” means rights to use, modify, reproduce, perform,

display, release, or disclose technical data in whole or in part, in any manner, and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or authorize others to do so.

(b) Rights in technical data. The Contractor grants or shall obtain for the Government the following royalty free, world-wide, nonexclusive, irrevocable license rights in technical data other than computer software documentation (see the Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation clause of this contract for rights in computer software documentation):

(1) Unlimited rights. The Government shall have unlimited rights in technical data that are—

(i) Data pertaining to an item, component, or process which has been or will be developed exclusively with Government funds;

(ii) Studies, analyses, test data, or similar data produced for this contract, when the study, analysis, test, or similar work was specified as an element of performance;

(iii) Created exclusively with Government funds in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes;

(iv) Form, fit, and function data;

(v) Necessary for installation, operation, maintenance, or training purposes (other than detailed manufacturing or process data);

(vi) Corrections or changes to technical data furnished to the Contractor by the Government;

(vii) Otherwise publicly available or have been released or disclosed by the Contractor or subcontractor without restrictions on further use, release or disclosure, other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the technical data to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party;

(viii) Data in which the Government has obtained unlimited rights under another Government contract or as a result of negotiations; or

(ix) Data furnished to the Government, under this or any other Government contract or subcontract thereunder, with—

(A) Government purpose license rights or limited rights and the restrictive condition(s) has/have expired; or

(B) Government purpose rights and the Contractor's exclusive right to use such data for commercial purposes has expired.

(2) Government purpose rights.

(i) The Government shall have government purpose rights for a five-year period, or such other period as may be negotiated, in technical data—

(A) That pertain to items, components, or processes developed with mixed funding except when the Government is entitled to unlimited rights in such data 

as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iv) through (b)(1)(ix) of this clause; or

(B) Created with mixed funding in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes.

(ii) The five-year period, or such other period as may have been negotiated, shall commence upon execution of the contract, subcontract, letter contract (or similar contractual instrument), contract modification, or option exercise that required development of the items, components, or processes or creation of the data described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this clause. Upon expiration of the five-year or other negotiated period, the Government shall have unlimited rights in the technical data.

(iii) The Government shall not release or disclose technical data in which it has government purpose rights unless—

(A) Prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to the non-disclosure agreement at  of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS); or

(B) The recipient is a Government contractor receiving access to the data for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at DFARS , Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government-Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.

(iv) The Contractor has the exclusive right, including the right to license others, to use technical data in which the Government has obtained government purpose rights under this contract for any commercial purpose during the time period specified in the government purpose rights legend prescribed in paragraph (f)(2) of this clause.

(3) Limited rights.

(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iv) through (b)(1)(ix) of this clause, the Government shall have limited rights in technical data—

(A) Pertaining to items, components, or processes developed exclusively at private expense and marked with the limited rights legend prescribed in paragraph (f) of this clause; or

(B) Created exclusively at private expense in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes.

(ii) The Government shall require a recipient of limited rights data for emergency repair or overhaul to destroy the data and all copies in its possession promptly following completion of the emergency repair/overhaul and to notify the Contractor that the data have been destroyed.

(iii) The Contractor, its subcontractors, and suppliers are not required to provide the Government additional rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data furnished to the Government with limited rights. However, if the Government desires to obtain additional rights in technical data in which it has limited rights, the Contractor agrees to promptly enter into negotiations with the Contracting Officer to determine whether there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights. All technical data in which the Contractor has granted the Government additional rights shall be listed or described in a license agreement made part of the contract. The license shall enumerate the additional rights granted the Government in such data.

(iv) The Contractor acknowledges that—

(A) Limited rights data are authorized to be released or disclosed to 

covered Government support contractors;

(B) The Contractor will be notified of such release or disclosure;

(C) The Contractor (or the party asserting restrictions as identified in the limited rights legend) may require each such covered Government support contractor to enter into a non-disclosure agreement directly with the Contractor (or the 

party asserting restrictions) regarding the covered Government support contractor’s use 

of such data, or alternatively, that the Contractor (or party asserting restrictions) may 

waive in writing the requirement for a non-disclosure agreement; and 

(D) Any such non-disclosure agreement shall address the restrictions on the covered Government support contractor's use of the limited rights data as set forth 

in the clause at , Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government-

Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends. The non-disclosure 

agreement shall not include any additional terms and conditions unless mutually 

agreed to by the parties to the non-disclosure agreement.

(4) Specifically negotiated license rights. The standard license rights granted to the Government under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this clause, including the period during which the Government shall have government purpose rights in technical data, may be modified by mutual agreement to provide such rights as the parties consider appropriate but shall not provide the Government lesser rights than are 

enumerated in paragraph (a)(14) of this clause. Any rights so negotiated shall be 

identified in a license agreement made part of this contract.

(5) Prior government rights. Technical data that will be delivered, furnished, or otherwise provided to the Government under this contract, in which the Government has previously obtained rights shall be delivered, furnished, or provided with the pre-existing rights, unless—

(i) The parties have agreed otherwise; or

(ii) Any restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose the data have expired or no longer apply.

(6) Release from liability. The Contractor agrees to release the Government from liability for any release or disclosure of technical data made in accordance with 

paragraph (a)(14) or (b)(2)(iii) of this clause, in accordance with the terms of a license 

negotiated under paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, or by others to whom the recipient has 

released or disclosed the data and to seek relief solely from the party who has improperly used, modified, reproduced, released, performed, displayed, or disclosed Contractor data marked with restrictive legends.

(c) Contractor rights in technical data. All rights not granted to the Government are retained by the Contractor.

(d) Third party copyrighted data. The Contractor shall not, without the written approval of the Contracting Officer, incorporate any copyrighted data in the technical data to be delivered under this contract unless the Contractor is the copyright owner or has obtained for the Government the license rights necessary to perfect a license or licenses in the deliverable data of the appropriate scope set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, and has affixed a statement of the license or licenses obtained on behalf of the Government and other persons to the data transmittal document.

(e) Identification and delivery of data to be furnished with restrictions on use, release, or disclosure.

(1) This paragraph does not apply to restrictions based solely on copyright.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this clause, technical data that the Contractor asserts should be furnished to the Government with restrictions on use, release, or disclosure are identified in an attachment to this contract (the Attachment). The Contractor shall not deliver any data with restrictive markings unless the data are listed on the Attachment.

(3) In addition to the assertions made in the Attachment, other assertions may be identified after award when based on new information or inadvertent omissions unless the inadvertent omissions would have materially affected the source selection decision. Such identification and assertion shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer as soon as practicable prior to the scheduled date for delivery of the data, in the following format, and signed by an official authorized to contractually obligate the Contractor:

Identification and Assertion of Restrictions on the Government's Use, Release, 

or Disclosure of Technical Data.

The Contractor asserts for itself, or the persons identified below, that the Government's rights to use, release, or disclose the following technical data should be restricted—

*If the assertion is applicable to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, identify both the data and each such item, component, or process.

**Generally, the development of an item, component, or process at private expense, either exclusively or partially, is the only basis for asserting restrictions on the Government's rights to use, release, or disclose technical data pertaining to such items, components, or processes. Indicate whether development was exclusively or partially at private expense. If development was not at private expense, enter the specific reason for asserting that the Government's rights should be restricted.

***Enter asserted rights category (e.g., government purpose license rights from a prior contract, rights in SBIR data generated under another contract, limited or government purpose rights under this or a prior contract, or specifically negotiated licenses).

****Corporation, individual, or other person, as appropriate.

(End of identification and assertion)

(4) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall provide sufficient information to enable the Contracting Officer to evaluate the Contractor's assertions. The Contracting Officer reserves the right to add the Contractor's assertions to the Attachment and validate any listed assertion, at a later date, in accordance with the procedures of the Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data clause of this contract. 

(f) Marking requirements. The Contractor, and its subcontractors or suppliers, may only assert restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data to be delivered under this contract by marking the deliverable data subject to restriction. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(5) of this clause, only the following legends are authorized under this contract: the government purpose rights legend at paragraph (f)(2) of this clause; the limited rights legend at paragraph (f)(3) of this clause; or the special license rights legend at paragraph (f)(4) of this clause; and/or a notice of copyright as prescribed under 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402.

(1) General marking instructions. The Contractor, or its subcontractors or suppliers, shall conspicuously and legibly mark the appropriate legend on all technical data that qualify for such markings. The authorized legends shall be placed on the transmittal document or storage container and, for printed material, each page of the printed material containing technical data for which restrictions are asserted. When only portions of a page of printed material are subject to the asserted restrictions, such portions shall be identified by circling, underscoring, with a note, or other appropriate identifier. Technical data transmitted directly from one computer or computer terminal to another shall contain a notice of asserted restrictions. Reproductions of technical data or any portions thereof subject to asserted restrictions shall also reproduce the asserted restrictions.

(2) Government purpose rights markings. Data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government with government purpose rights shall be marked as follows:

GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS

The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these technical data are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of the Rights in Technical Data—Noncommercial Items clause contained in the above identified contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown above. Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.

(End of legend)

(3) Limited rights markings. Data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government with limited rights shall be marked with the following legend:

LIMITED RIGHTS

The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these technical data are restricted by paragraph (b)(3) of the Rights in Technical Data--Noncommercial Items clause contained in the above identified contract. Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings. Any person, other than the Government, who has been provided access to such data must promptly notify the above named Contractor.

(End of legend)

(4) Special license rights markings.

(i) Data in which the Government's rights stem from a specifically negotiated license shall be marked with the following legend:

SPECIAL LICENSE RIGHTS

(End of legend)

(ii) For purposes of this clause, special licenses do not include government purpose license rights acquired under a prior contract (see paragraph (b)(5) of this clause).

(5) Pre-existing data markings. If the terms of a prior contract or license permitted the Contractor to restrict the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data deliverable under this contract, and those restrictions are still applicable, the Contractor may mark such data with the appropriate restrictive legend for which the data qualified under the prior contract or license. The marking procedures in paragraph (f)(1) of this clause shall be followed.

(g) Contractor procedures and records. Throughout performance of this contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors or suppliers that will deliver technical data with other than unlimited rights, shall—

(1) Have, maintain, and follow written procedures sufficient to assure that restrictive markings are used only when authorized by the terms of this clause; and

(2) Maintain records sufficient to justify the validity of any restrictive markings on technical data delivered under this contract.

(h) Removal of unjustified and nonconforming markings.

(1) Unjustified technical data markings. The rights and obligations of the parties regarding the validation of restrictive markings on technical data furnished or to be furnished under this contract are contained in the Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data clause of this contract. Notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning inspection and acceptance, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, correct or strike a marking if, in accordance with the procedures in the Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data clause of this contract, a restrictive marking is determined to be unjustified.

(2) Nonconforming technical data markings. A nonconforming marking is a marking placed on technical data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government under this contract that is not in the format authorized by this contract. Correction of nonconforming markings is not subject to the Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data clause of this contract. If the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor of a nonconforming marking and the Contractor fails to remove or correct such marking within sixty (60) days, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, remove or correct any nonconforming marking.

(i) Relation to patents. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government under any patent.

(j) Limitation on charges for rights in technical data.

(1) The Contractor shall not charge to this contract any cost, including, but not limited to, license fees, royalties, or similar charges, for rights in technical data to be delivered under this contract when—

(i) The Government has acquired, by any means, the same or greater rights in the data; or

(ii) The data are available to the public without restrictions.

(2) The limitation in paragraph (j)(1) of this clause—

(i) Includes costs charged by a subcontractor or supplier, at any tier, or costs incurred by the Contractor to acquire rights in subcontractor or supplier technical data, if the subcontractor or supplier has been paid for such rights under any other Government contract or under a license conveying the rights to the Government; and

(ii) Does not include the reasonable costs of reproducing, handling, or mailing the documents or other media in which the technical data will be delivered.

(k) Applicability to subcontractors or suppliers.

(1) The Contractor shall ensure that the rights afforded its subcontractors and suppliers under 10 U.S.C. 2320, 10 U.S.C. 2321, and the identification, assertion, and delivery processes of paragraph (e) of this clause are recognized and protected.

(2) Whenever any technical data for noncommercial items, or for commercial items developed in any part at Government expense, is to be obtained from a subcontractor or supplier for delivery to the Government under this contract, the Contractor shall use this same clause in the subcontract or other contractual

instrument, including subcontracts or other contractual instruments for commercial items, and require its subcontractors or suppliers to do so, without alteration, except to

identify the parties. This clause will govern the technical data pertaining to noncommercial items or to any portion of a commercial item that was developed in any part at Government expense, and the clause at  will govern the technical data pertaining to any portion of a commercial item that was developed exclusively at private expense. No other clause shall be used to enlarge or diminish the Government's, the Contractor's, or a higher-tier subcontractor's or supplier's rights in a subcontractor's or supplier's technical data.

(3) Technical data required to be delivered by a subcontractor or supplier shall normally be delivered to the next higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier. However, when there is a requirement in the prime contract for data which may be submitted with other than unlimited rights by a subcontractor or supplier, then said subcontractor or supplier may fulfill its requirement by submitting such data directly to the Government, rather than through a higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier.

(4) The Contractor and higher-tier subcontractors or suppliers shall not use their power to award contracts as economic leverage to obtain rights in technical data from their subcontractors or suppliers.

(5) In no event shall the Contractor use its obligation to recognize and protect subcontractor or supplier rights in technical data as an excuse for failing to satisfy its contractual obligation to the Government.

(End of clause)

ALTERNATE I (JUN 1995)

As prescribed in (b)(1), add the following paragraph (l) to the basic clause:

(l) Publication for sale.

(1) This paragraph only applies to technical data in which the Government has obtained unlimited rights or a license to make an unrestricted release of technical data.

(2) The Government shall not publish a deliverable technical data item or items identified in this contract as being subject to paragraph (l) of this clause or authorize others to publish such data on its behalf if, prior to publication for sale by the Government and within twenty-four (24) months following the date specified in this contract for delivery of such data or the removal of any national security or export control restrictions, whichever is later, the Contractor publishes that item or items for sale and promptly notifies the Contracting Officer of such publication(s). Any such publication shall include a notice identifying the number of this contract and the Government's rights in the published data.

(3) This limitation on the Government's right to publish for sale shall continue as long as the data are reasonably available to the public for purchase.

ALTERNATE II (MAR 2011)

As prescribed in (b)(2), add the following paragraphs (a)(17) and (b)(7) to the basic clause:

(a)(17) "Vessel design" means the design of a vessel, boat, or craft, and its

components, including the hull, decks, superstructure, and the exterior surface

shape of all external shipboard equipment and systems. The term includes designs covered by 10 U.S.C. 7317, and designs protectable under 17 U.S.C. 1301, et seq.

(b)(7) Vessel designs. For a vessel design (including a vessel design embodied in a useful article) that is developed or delivered under this contract, the Government shall have the right to make and have made any useful article that embodies the vessel design, to import the article, to sell the article, and to distribute the article for sale or to use the article in trade, to the same extent that the Government is granted rights in the technical data pertaining to the vessel design





CLIN 

Deliverable 

QTY

Unit

Unit Price

Total Price

0001

Kickoff Brief and Minutes









0002

Program Management Support

12

Months





0003

Help Desk and Incident Management Support

12

Months





0004

Production, Test, and Stage environment Support and Communication and Coordination with the Hybia Valley Data Center (IBMS)

12

Months





0005

User Training (IBMS)

12

Months





0006

Help Desk and Incident Management Planning for SPIDERS

12

Months





0007

Production Support and Communication and Coordination with the Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Enterprise Computing Center (DISA DECC) (SPIDERS)

12

Months





0008

Test, Development, and Stage Environment Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





0009

User Training (SPIDERS)

12

Months





0010

IA Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





0011

IA Support (IBMS)

12

Months





0012

IBMS and SPIDERS System Development and Business Analysis Requirements

12

Months





0013

IBMS and SPIDERS Software Application and Data Maintenance

12

Months





0014

Travel (Not to exceed $20,000.00)











CLIN 

Deliverable 

QTY

Unit

Unit Price

Total Price

1001

Kickoff Brief and Minutes









1002

Program Management Support

12

Months





1003

Help Desk and Incident Management Support

12

Months





1004

Production, Test, and Stage environment Support and Communication and Coordination with the Hybia Valley Data Center (IBMS)

12

Months





1005

User Training (IBMS)

12

Months





1006

Help Desk and Incident Management Planning for SPIDERS

12

Months





1007

Production Support and Communication and Coordination with the Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Enterprise Computing Center (DISA DECC) (SPIDERS)

12

Months





1008

Test, Development, and Stage Environment Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





1009

User Training (SPIDERS)

12

Months





1010

IA Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





1011

IA Support (IBMS)

12

Months





1012

IBMS and SPIDERS System Development and Business Analysis Requirements

12

Months





1013

IBMS and SPIDERS Software Application and Data Maintenance

12

Months





1014

Travel (Not to exceed $20,000.00)











CLIN 

Deliverable 

QTY

Unit

Unit Price

Total Price

2001

Kickoff Brief and Minutes









2002

Program Management Support

12

Months





2003

Help Desk and Incident Management Support

12

Months





2004

Production, Test, and Stage environment Support and Communication and Coordination with the Hybia Valley Data Center (IBMS)

12

Months





2005

User Training (IBMS)

12

Months





2006

Help Desk and Incident Management Planning for SPIDERS

12

Months





2007

Production Support and Communication and Coordination with the Defense Information Systems Agency Defense Enterprise Computing Center (DISA DECC) (SPIDERS)

12

Months





2008

Test, Development, and Stage Environment Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





2009

User Training (SPIDERS)

12

Months





2010

IA Support (SPIDERS)

12

Months





2011

IA Support (IBMS)

12

Months





2012

IBMS and SPIDERS System Development and Business Analysis Requirements

12

Months





2013

IBMS and SPIDERS Software Application and Data Maintenance

12

Months





2014

Travel (Not to exceed $20,000.00)











Acquisition Specialist



Mark Esposito

DLA Contracting Services Office – Philadelphia

DSCO-P, Bldg 26-1N-8129

700 Robbins Avenue

Philadelphia, PA  19111

E-Mail: 









Task 

Deliverable 

Due Date 

Weeks After Contract Award (WAC) 

1

Kickoff Brief and Minutes

10 days after award

2

Program Management Tracking Tool (Deliverable 2)

Continuous

2

Program Plans (Deliverable 3)

As Required

2

Data Call Inputs (Deliverable 4)

As Required

2

SPIDERS and IBMS/S&S DB IT Requirements Module Updates & Maintenance (Deliverable5)

Continuous

2

Weekly Program Status Call with SPIDERS PM (Deliverable 6)

Weekly

2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,13

Monthly Status Report (Deliverable 7)

15th day of each Month  

2

Monthly Program Status Meeting (Deliverable 8)

Monthly

5

INFOSPOTS (Deliverable 9) 

As Required

5

EPC TCB & CAB Meeting Attendance (Deliverable 10)

As Required

8

Hard Copies of SPIDERS Training Material for each Training Event (Deliverable 11)

As Required

8

Web access to SPIDERS Training Material (Deliverable 12)

Continuous

9

Hard Copies of IBMS/S&S DB Training Material for each Training Event (Deliverable 13)

As Required

9

Web access to IBMS/S&S DB Training Material (Deliverable 14)

Continuous

10

ATO Maintenance (Deliverable 15)

Continuous

12

Software Requirements Specification (Deliverable 16)

As Required

12

SPIDERS and IBMS/S&S DB Development Proposals in Support of the CCB Process (Deliverable 17)

As Required

13

Configuration Management Record Files (Deliverable 18)

Continuous

13

COTS Research Reports (Deliverable 19) 

As Required

13

Minor Software Enhancement Releases to SPIDERS and IBMS/S&S DB (Deliverable 20)

Continuous



Grade

Description 

HA

Highly Acceptable – Meets or exceeds task order requirements in terms of timeliness and quality.  COR will make a determination to pay the Contractor 100% of the monthly

A

Acceptable – Meets all deliverable requirements of the PWS with only minor revisions necessary and the revisions do not adversely impact the mission of the Agency. The COR will make a determination to pay the Contractor 95% of the monthly invoice Labor amount and will explain the rationale for the grade in the COR justification box below.

MA

Marginally Acceptable – Has two or more issues that were not minor, such as missed milestones, lesser quality levels of work and/or documents requiring multiple reviews and rework, significant or serious 

complaints submitted by the program office, or documents that did not comply with acquisition or policy regulations. COR will make a determination to pay the Contractor 85% of the monthly invoice amount after the correction(s) has/have been made and will explain the rationale for the grade in the COR justification box below.

U

Unacceptable – Performance has been less-than-Marginally Acceptable and (1) the PCO discussed the performance with the Team Leader (representing itself or a team member and/or the PCO discussed the 

performance directly with a team member and PCO-deemed-acceptable improvement did not result promptly. OR (2) the PCO issued a cure notice regarding performance, without PCO-deemed-acceptable improvement resulting promptly. If either (1) or (2), Labor payment for the month will be withheld pending resolution of the less-than-Marginally Acceptable performance and/or the cure notice.  Upon PCO-deemed-acceptable resolution of the less-than-Marginally Acceptable performance and/or cure notice, Labor payment for the 

month in question will be made at the Marginally Acceptable 85% rate.  If the issues are not resolved to the satisfaction of the PCO, no payment will be made.  Continued performance at the “Unacceptable” 

level will be grounds for full or partial Termination for Cause.



PAY DODAAC:

SL4701

WAWF Invoice Type

2 in 1

Inspection/Acceptance Point

Inspection:  Destination

Acceptance: Destination

Issue by DODAAC

SP4701

Admin DODAAC

SP4701

Inspect By DODAAC (if applicable)



Ship to DODAAC

SL4818

Service Approve DODAAC

SL4818



Martina.Johnson@dla.mil

Primary COR

Mark.Esposito@dla.mil

Acquisition Specialist

Others as specified in each Delivery Order

Others as specified in each Delivery Order



PAY DODAAC:

SL4701

WAWF Invoice Type

2 in 1

Inspection/Acceptance Point

Inspection:  Destination

Acceptance: Destination

Issue by DODAAC

SP4701

Admin DODAAC

SP4701

Inspect By DODAAC (if applicable)



Ship to DODAAC

SL4818

Service Approve DODAAC

SL4818



FACTORS

Technical Acceptability (Pass/|Fail)

Satisfactory Past Performance (Pass/Fail)

Cost/Price



Table 2.  Past Performance Relevancy Ratings

Table 2.  Past Performance Relevancy Ratings

Rating

Definition

Relevant

Present / past performance effort involved similar magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.

Not Relevant

Present / past performance effort involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.



Table 3.  Past Performance Quality Ratings

Table 3.  Past Performance Quality Ratings

Rating

Definition

Acceptable (A)

Response demonstrates historical projects with generally satisfactory or better experience directly related to the stated requirement with the solicitation and producing high quality reports, deliverables, staying on schedule and within budget.  Generally has an acceptable or better overall past performance based on Past Performance Questionnaires.

Unacceptable (U)

Response demonstrates generally poor or unsatisfactory overall experience performing historical projects and does not exhibit experience producing high quality reports, deliverables, staying on schedule and within budget.  Generally has a poor or unacceptable overall past performance based on Past Performance Questionnaires.

Neutral (N)

The Neutral rating is to be assigned if the vendor has no relevant record of past performance.  The vendor will not be rated favorably or unfavorably.



Table 4. Past Performance Evaluation Ratings

Table 4. Past Performance Evaluation Ratings

Rating

Description

Acceptable (A)

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the Government has a reasonable expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

See Note Below.

Unacceptable (U)

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the Government has no reasonable expectation that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.



Volume I

:

Technical Proposal Information

Volume II

:

 Price Proposal 







Cover: 

The cover should indicate the following:

Title of the proposal

Proposal volume 

Volume No. 

Name and address of offeror

Cage Code/DUNS 

Name and phone number of a principal point of contact

Identification of copies bearing original signatures





Table of Contents: 

The table of contents shall provide sufficient detail as to allow the important elements to be easily located.  The use of tabs and dividers is encouraged.





Volume

Chapter

Page Limitation

I.

Cover Letter and Executive Summary



2

II.

Technical Proposal

Technical Acceptability

Satisfactory Past Performance)



15*



10       

III.

Price Proposal

Cost/Price

No Page Limitation



FAR 52.232-1                 Payments

Apr 1984

DFARS 252.227-7014    Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and 

                                        Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation

Feb 2012

DFARS 252.227-7016    Rights in Bid or Proposal Information

Jan 2011

DFARS 252.227-7017    Identification and Assertion of Use, Release, or Disclosure

                                        Restrictions

Jan 2011

DFARS 252.227-7019    Validation of Asserted Restrictions-Computer Software

Sep 2011

DFARS 252.227-7027    Deferred Ordering of Technical Data or Computer  Software   

Apr 1988

DFARS 252.227-7030    Technical Data—Withholding of Payment

Mar 2000

DFARS 252.211-7003    ITEM IDENTIFICATION AND VALUATION 

Jun 2011

FAR 52.219-1                 Small Business Program Representations

Apr 2012

FAR 52.219-28               Post Award Small Business Program Representation

Apr 2012

FAR 52.233-3                 Protest After Award

Aug 1996

FAR 52.233-1                 Disputes

July 2002

DLAD 52.233-9001        Disputes Agreement to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution

Nov 2011



Technical Data

  

  

Name of Person

to be Furnished

Basis for

Asserted Rights

Asserting

With Restrictions*

Assertion**

Category***

Restrictions****

(LIST)

(LIST)

(LIST)

(LIST)



Date

_________________________________

Printed Name and Title

_________________________________

  

_________________________________

Signature

_________________________________





















  

  

Contract No.

Contract No.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Contractor Name

Contractor Name

Contractor Name

Contractor Name

  

  

  

  

  

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Expiration Date

Expiration Date

Expiration Date

  

  

  

  



















  

  

Contract No.

Contract No.

  

  

  

  

  

  

Contractor Name

Contractor Name

Contractor Name

  

  

  

  

  

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

Contractor Address

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  



The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these data are restricted by Contract No. _____(Insert contract number)____, License No. ____(Insert license identifier)____. Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.