Statement of Work

Internet Protocol Television (IPTV)

Subscription & Maintenance Details



1. General Scope

Nellis AFB, NV intends to procure a complete turnkey system for its facilities located at both Nellis and Creech AFB, NV. The system should be installed, certified and fully operational within a 90 day Period of Performance. 

Contractor to provide all parts, equipment, labor, installation to provide Nellis and Creech AFB Internet Protocol Television with 6 channels, in MPEG 1/2/4 format. The broadcast is to be in WMV format. Programming is to be over the Nellis and Creech local area networks to a minimum of 500 concurrent users.  The TV service must consist of 6 channels of satellite or cable TV content.

Required channels are:  

-- Two local channels, one weather channel, and either three news channels or a combination of two news channels and one Commander's Information Channel. 

-- System must have the ability for users to access video/audio streams through a web based portal or software. 

-- Must be capable of providing live video streams. 

-- All software and hardware must be included for video on demand service (with audio) for all six channels. 

-- System must also be capable of displaying on a minimum 20 computer monitors simultaneously.

-- System must be Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) certified to run on a DoD/ government network. 

-- System must be Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) certified within 90 days after installation.



Contractor will provide the standard commercial warranty for all equipment. Defects which may occur as the result of faulty materials, workmanship, or installation shall be corrected by The Contractor at no additional cost to The Government.  The contractor must provide 24 hour, 7 day a week customer support, for all television services, in order to remedy any problems on site using self-maintenance.



2. Subscription Data

2.1 Satellite or Cable TV service must consist of 6 channels of satellite or cable TV content for up to 500 users.  Content channels will include: (3) 24 hour news channels, two (2) local channels and one (1) 24 hour weather channel.  If the commander’s access channel can be utilized then it will replace one of the news channels. 







Sample programming is shown below:





3. Priority Service



3.1 System should have a minimum of three (3) priority services to allow critical [Priority One] personnel to preempt less critical personnel in order to receive IPTV broadcast if all 500 drops are being utilized.    





4. Training

The contractor is to ensure that all Government personnel, who will be

responsible for this equipment and system are properly trained and educated

in all matters relating to operation and maintenance.





Programming Category

Quantity

Channel Examples























































24 Hour News 

2

CNN, CNN Headlines, Fox News, MS-NBC



Local Channels

2

ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX, UPN, PBS, WB

Weather



Commanders information Channel

1



1





The Weather Channel





