Domestic Vendor File Request Form
Today's Date:
PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT : The following information is provided to comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579). All information
collected on this form is required under the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3322 and 31CFR 208 and 210. This information is used by Peace Corps and the U.S. Treasury Department to transmit payment data, by electronic means to a vendor's financial institution. Failure to provide the requested information may delay or prevent the receipt of payments through the Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Program.

INSTRUCTIONS ON SECOND PAGE -- DIRECT FORMS AND QUESTIONS TO: vendordatadomestic@peacecorps.gov

REQUESTER INFORMATION
Last Name: Huang Phone No.: ( ) First: Jeffrey MI: E-mail: jhuang@peacecorps.gov Office Name: Office of Acquisitions and Contract Management

VENDOR INFORMATION
Reason for Request (Please check one box): New Update Federal Agency ALC: First: MI: REQUIRED: Indicate Reason for Update: Choose Choosean anoption... item. If `Other', specify:

Commercial Vendor Type: Select...
Vendor Name: Job Title/Position: Birthdate: Gender: Address: City: State: Zip Code: / M / F

Tax ID # or Vendor DUNS: (Only US commercial vendors) : Phone No.: ( ) E-mail Address: Country:

FINANCIAL INSTITUTION INFORMATION
Payment by: EFT Check Justification required for check payment:_____________________________________________________________ If check, is the "Remit to Address" different? If different, provide the "Remit to Address" in the lines below. Bank Corporate Name: Branch Name: Address: City Zip Code: State: Country:

ABA# Routing Transit Number: Bank Account Number:

Type of Account:

Checking

Savings

Lockbox

OTHER VENDOR INFORMATION (FOR INTERNAL PEACE CORPS USE ONLY) 1099 (PSCs, Partnerships and Corporations) Non-1099 (Employees, Overseas staff, and Orgs) Date: / / Vendor No:

Completed By: PC 708 (formerly PC-CFO-FS 709) (10/2010)

Clear Form

Print Form

Save Form

Instructions to Completing Form 709
A Domestic Vendor File Request Form must be completed for each vendor that will conduct procurement business with a Peace Corps representative. Vendor IDs are required to establish obligations and process payments in Odyssey and to allow the agency to comply with federal reporting requirements. To insure prompt data entry by vendor maintenance staff, all relevant fields must be completed.

Requestor Information The staff person preparing the form enters their last name, first name, middle initial, e-mail, office name, and phone number.

Vendor Information

1. Check New or Updated vendor request. 2. Indicate reason for an Updated Request from the dropdown menu. 3. Select the Vendor Type from the dropdown menu. Write out the type of Vendor if `Other' is chosen. 4. If vendor is a US Federal Agency, provide its Agency Location Code (ALC). 5. If vendor is a commercial entity, enter the vendor name. 6. If vendor is a person, enter the vendor's last name, first name, middle initial, job title/position, birth date and gender. 7. For US commercial vendors, provide Tax Identification number or Vendor DUNS*. *If the vendor does not have a DUNS number one can be obtained at the D&B web site. All US vendors conducting business with a Federal Agency are required to have a DUNS number. 8. Indicate the vendor's phone number, e-mail, street address, city, state, zip code, and country. Financial Institution Information 1. Select the payment type EFT or Check and the justification for a check payment. 2. Enter the Bank name, branch name, address, city, state, zip code, and country. 3. Provide the bank's Routing Code (ABA, Swift or other necessary routing information). 4. Provide the vendor's bank account number. 5. Select the type of bank account.

PC 708 (formerly PC-CFO-FS 709) (10/2010)

Clear Form

Print Form

Save Form

I.	INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS 



This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 12.6 and Part 13, as applicable and as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.



Proposals shall be submitted electronically. All FINAL Proposals are due NO LATER THAN on 11 JULY 2012 @ 12:00pm Eastern Standard Time. Proposals must be submitted to Mr. Jeffrey Huang at  and Ms. Fabiola A. Bellevue at . 



Questions regarding this solicitation must be submitted in writing exclusively to Mr. Jeffrey Huang at  no later than 27 JUNE 2012 @ 12:00pm Eastern Standard Time. Any amendments to this solicitation and any questions and answers will be posted to the Federal Business Opportunities website at www.fbo.gov. Interested parties are responsible for checking for any amendments or questions and answers. The NAICS Code 518210-Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services applies to this RFP. This requirement is a 100% small-business set-aside.

Offerors shall submit proposals to the Peace Corps that clearly detail proposed technical capabilities to meet the requirements contained within the Statement of Work. Offerors shall submit two (2) separate volumes, one technical and one price. The proposal must include the following items: 



Volume I: Technical Proposal (20 pg. limit) 

Volume II: Price Proposal (no pg. limit) 

Please include the following on your cover page for each volume: 

The RFP number 

The name, address, and telephone number of the Offeror 

Vendors DUNs number and Tax Identification Number (TIN).



Electronic submissions and attachments should be provided in workable files that are unlocked/unprotected. The preferred document format is in Microsoft Office Word, Excel and PowerPoint or Adobe Acrobat PDF. Electronic files submission that cannot be readily opened by Peace Corps may be considered non-responsive. Oral communications are not acceptable in response to this notice.



The Government may request a demonstration of or trial user access to the Offeror’s products to determine if the proposed software meets Peace Corps requirements. Offerors are cautioned to include a complete and comprehensive description of its products capabilities and not rely on supplementing its proposal with a demonstration.



The estimated award date is November 2, 2012.



II.	EVALUATION CRITERIA



The Government will award a firm-fixed-price purchase order resulting from this solicitation to the responsible vendor whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be the most advantageous and represents the best value to the Peace Corps, considering price and other factors.  Award will be made on the basis of Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA). 



III.	PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS



Volume I - Technical Proposal (Pass/Fail)



The Technical Proposal shall not exceed twenty (20) pages. Resumes, attachments, a cover page, and table of contents are included in the page limit. The text shall not be smaller than 12-pitch type and shall be on standard 8 ½ by 11-inch paper. Offerors may print the proposal double-sided which will count as two pages.



The technical proposal should respond to the items set forth below:



1.	Software capabilities



The Offeror will be evaluated on the ability of its proposed software and services to meet the requirements specified in Section IV below.



Peace Corps reserves the right to request a demonstration of the Offeror's products to determine if the proposed software meets our requirements. Offerors are cautioned to include a complete and comprehensive description of its products capabilities and not rely on supplementing its proposal with a demonstration.



Offerors may describe any planned enhancements and upgrades, and expected availability dates to its proposed software or services that will further meet the requirements in Section IV. Emphasis will be placed on those upgrades that are firm and have published release dates.



Offerors will be evaluated based on duration of product support.



2. 	Technical Approach



The Offerors technical approach to implementing its proposed software should be described in as much details as Offeror considers necessary to fully explain its proposed approach or methodology. The technical proposal should reflect a clear understanding of the nature of the work being undertaken, including meeting the necessary implementation time frames.



Describe how long products are maintained under standard maintenance terms.



3. 	License and Maintenance Terms.



Offerors shall provide the complete terms of its software license agreements, if applicable, as well as the maintenance and support agreements.



Volume II - Price Proposal



The price proposal must contain sufficient information to allow the Government to perform an evaluation of the proposed price of the services for the base year and each option year. 



The quoted prices shall include, as applicable, unit prices, quantities, one-time license fees, annual license fees, maintenance fees, tiered pricing for surveys, training and user guide fees and other relevant details to describe what is included and what is not included in the proposed prices.



The desired pricing is a fixed annual price for the online services and a breakdown of costs that includes anyone-time or annual costs.



IV. 	DESCRIPTION OF REQUIREMENT

A.	PURPOSE


The Peace Corps’ (PC) Office of Strategic Information, Research and Planning (OSIRP) requires survey software to conduct surveys and collect interview data from Volunteers and program participants overseas. Peace Corps desires to implement a commercially off-the-shelf (COTS) product that does not require extensive development or customization to meet our needs.



OSIRP currently conducts the following major surveys and data collection efforts each year:

The Annual Volunteer Survey: average 8,000 responses/submissions each year

The Host County Impact Studies: average 2,000 submissions each year

Surveys of Post Staff: average 100 submissions per year

Miscellaneous surveys: average 1,000 submissions per year



The Volunteer survey is anonymous and collects feedback from currently-serving Volunteers on their training, work, health, staff support, and living conditions. In 2011, 96% of Volunteers took the survey online. The Host Country Impact Studies are a series of interviews with local partners and beneficiaries in the countries where Peace Corps Volunteers serve. The interviews are conducted by local research teams who enter the interview data into an online database. The surveys of post staff occur two times a year to collect performance data and to determine how posts are implementing the recommendations from the Impact Studies.



B.	BACKGROUND


The United States Peace Corps is a civilian executive agency of the Federal Government established in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy to promote world peace and friendship through the service of American volunteers abroad. 



The Peace Corps is headquartered in Washington, D.C. with 9 regional offices within the United States. It supports and manages more than 9,095 volunteers in approximately 70 countries worldwide. Since its founding, more than 200,000 volunteers have served in 139 countries throughout the world. For over 50 years, a spirit of service and global outreach has been the foundation of Peace Corps' success and growth and represent the core of its organizational culture.



C.	SCOPE OF WORK


The Peace Corps requires a commercially off-the-shelf (COTS) online/internet-based survey and data collection software and support services from a commercial provider to support OSIRP’s survey and evaluation work. The Peace Corps requires that the online surveys and interviews be hosted on the vendor’s web-based internet portal. The Contractor shall provide access to the tools required to author, manage, execute and download data via the vendor’s internet portal. The Contractor shall host the online surveys and interviews using a secure socket layer (SSL) for confidentiality purposes. The services must be immediately available to the Peace Corps upon award via the vendor’s web-based service portal. The required capabilities (below) must exist at the time of award. Services requiring additional programming, web site acquisition, or data base development in order to provide the capabilities required by the Peace Corps are excluded.



C.1.	Account Management



The Contractor shall establish an account under this procurement for the Peace Corps with Ms. Fabiola A. Bellevue as Contracting Officer. All billing will be under the account for the designated Contracting Officer (CO) and appointed Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). 



The COR in the Office of Strategic Information, Research and Planning (OSIRP) will be the primary user and designated Peace Corps Account Manager. Except for such written instructions, orders or directions as given by the CO or COR in accordance with Peace Corps acquisition policies, no verbal or written instructions, orders, directions, or discussions from any other Peace Corps employee, manger, or executive shall be regarded as binding on the vendor. Only the Contracting Officer has the ability to authorize changes or modifications to the contract.



C.2.	Mandatory Functional Capabilities



The Contractor shall meet the following functional capabilities.



C.2.1.	Platform and Accessibility Requirements



The Contractor shall provide external hosting of data and protocol designs on their own servers. The Contractor’s product must be compatible with several internet browsers, including Internet Explorer version 8 and higher and Mozilla Firefox.  The Contractor shall provide online access and data entry capabilities to Peace Corps designers, researchers, and survey respondents at any time during the day or week. The Contractor shall provide tools for OSIRP staff to control other survey users in remote locations. The Contractor shall provide enough bandwidth to accommodate 200 simultaneous data entry/survey sessions. Respondents must be able to stop data entry/survey responses at any time and resume their work later at the point it was exited. The Contractor shall provide multi-language compatibility, including the ability to enter/translate non-Romanized characters such as Thai, Chinese, Arabic, etc.



C.2.2.	Survey and Interview Management Requirements


The Contractor shall provide online tools to design, clone/copy, open, close, delete, and edit surveys and interviews by Peace Corps survey designers in OSIRP. The Contractor shall provide test-publishing and survey preview features that allow designers to view what respondents would see during the survey design phase. The Contractor shall provide tools to track submissions by project and allow at least 15,000 submissions per year. The Contractor shall provide a means to develop authenticated and unauthenticated surveys (i.e. specify respondents or create anonymous surveys) that are accessible through a URL. 

	

Respondents must have the ability to auto-save responses after every page and manually save responses. The Contractor shall provide a means to control access to a given survey by target participants that provides anonymity while limiting survey access specifically to the intended respondents. Respondents should be able to stop the survey and re-enter their survey at the point they exited the survey.



C.2.3.	Data Management Requirements


Submitted survey data shall be exportable to SPSS and Excel [including .xlsx files]. Peace Corps designers in OSIRP must be able to access the surveys and data directly at any time. 



C.2.4.	Survey Design Requirements


The Contractor shall provide a means for Peace Corps designers to:

Create at least 25 different types of survey questions

Develop logic branching such as jumps, skips, loops, piping, pre-populating

Mass email survey invitations and reminders to respondents 

Brand the survey with graphics and photos

Users will be able to incorporate an unlimited number of survey/interview questions on each survey/interview.



C.2.5.	Technical Support Requirements


The Contractor shall provide technical support to Peace Corps staff via telephone, email, web and/or other means. Technical issues requiring Contractor support may include such events as: 

User log-on failures or difficulties for both staff and Volunteers

Authoring, design, delivery, and data management difficulties

User id/password difficulties

Training

As part of the required technical support, the Contractor shall provide as-needed orientation and training for Peace Corps staff on how to author, manage, and execute surveys online.  The Contractor shall also provide software training materials and user guides to Peace Corps users.



C.3.	Preferred Functional Capabilities


The following capabilities are preferred but not mandatory. 



Platform and Accessibility Capabilities

Respondents can access surveys via an internet connection through any device with a browser, including cell phone or tablet

Survey and Interview Management Capabilities

Respondents can print or save their responses once the survey or interview is complete

Data Management Capabilities

Peace Corps designers and contracted field researchers can export data to at least one of the following:

Nvivo

Atlas.Ti

Word Docx

Survey Design Capabilities

Peace Corps survey designers can create a shortened URL for the survey link

Respondents can download the survey onto a hard drive or microcard, complete the survey offline, and then upload their responses to the database



C.4.	Security Requirements


The Contractor must be able to meet the following requirements of the Peace Corps Office of Chief Information Officer (OCIO), which is in charge of information technology and cyber security:

Connection to a survey will be made using the Secure Socket Layer 2 (SSL-2) or Secure Socket Layer 3 (SSL-3) protocols.

Surveys will not be discoverable by indexing services such as Yahoo!, Google, MSN, Duck Duck Go, or other search engines using spiders, bots, or other techniques used to index content on the World-Wide Web.

Provide daily data backup, system monitoring, and a disaster recovery and business continuity plan.



In order to comply with Peace Corps and federal policy, the product may not be placed into operation until it has been security tested and certified as meeting applicable IT security requirements and achieving an acceptable level of IT security risk. This means that the Contractor shall provide a copy of the product for testing as part of the evaluation phase. 



C.4.1.	Peace Corps Information Security Requirements


This system shall meet current and future requirements of all relevant Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memoranda, Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (SP) , including all security controls identified in NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, and any future applicable revisions, as falling within the system baseline of the applicable security categorization of the system.  This list includes but is not limited to:

FIPS-140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules;

FIPS-197, Advanced Encryption Standard;

FIPS-199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems;

FIPS-200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems;

NIST SP 800-18 Rev. 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems; 

NIST SP 800-30, Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems; 

NIST SP 800-34 Rev. 1, Contingency Planning Guide for federal Information Technology Systems; 

NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems; 

NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations;

NIST SP 800-60, Rev. 1, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories;

NIST SP 800-64 Rev. 2, Security Considerations in the System Development Life Cycle;

NIST SP 800-123, Guide to General Server Security;

NIST SP 800-128, Guide for Security-Focused Configuration Management of Information Systems;

OMB Memorandum M-06-16, Protection of Sensitive Information, June 2006;

OMB Memorandum M-07-16, Safeguarding Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information, May 2007;

Applicable sections of the Peace Corps Manual to include MS 542: PC IT Security Policies and Procedures and associated PC IT Security Requirements.



C.4.2.	Peace Corps Information Security Policies


Peace Corps policies refer to and align with the requirements identified in NIST SP 800-53.  Where organizational defined references are identified, defer to recommended minimum controls or the minimum controls required to meet business and functional requirements.  



C.4.3.	Contractor Security Program Documentation


The Contractor shall provide for review by Peace Corps documentation of their security program.  The security program documentation must provide policy and procedures that meet the Federal government and Peace Corps information security standards for the transmitting, processing, and storing of Peace Corps data. 



C.4.4.	Non-Disclosure Agreement


The Contractor shall not publish or disclose in any manner, without the Contracting Officer’s written consent, the details of any safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor under this contract or otherwise provided by the Government.



C.4.5.	Information System Security Categorization and Baseline Security Controls


The Contractor shall determine the security categorization of the system and its information in accordance with FIPS 199 and NIST SP 800-60. The Contractor shall comply with current and future NIST SP 800-53 baseline controls for the potential impact level appropriate to the security categorization of the system.  



C.4.6.	Security Authorization


The Contractor shall support Peace Corps activities related to security assessment and authorization of this system, or its integration with an existing Peace Corps system assessment and authorization package to include core security documentation (including a System Security Plan, Information System Contingency Plan, Risk Assessment Report, Security Assessment Test Plan and Report, Security Requirements Traceability Matrix, and Plan of Action and Milestones). 



C.4.7.	Security Assessment


The Contractor shall be responsible for engaging an independent third party to complete a security control assessment following the steps in NIST 800-53A to determine the extent to which security controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the information system.  The deliverable from this assessment is the security assessment report documenting the issues, findings, and recommendations from the security control assessment. 



To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Government data, the Contractor shall afford the Government or its representatives access to the Contractor’s facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases as requested to conduct assessments and audits as mandated by the Federal government.  The Contractor shall support Peace Corps federally mandated information systems security testing and evaluation activities necessary to demonstrate implementation of applicable security controls including but not limited to:

Auditing

Account Management

Configuration Management

Contingency Planning

Incident Response

Vulnerability Detection and Analysis

Requests for results of independent, third-party audits, such as SAS 70 Type II reports.



C.4.8.	Configuration Management 


[FOR THIRD PARTY HOSTED SYSTEMS & SERVICES] The Contractor shall maintain a Configuration Management Plan that includes roles, responsibilities, processes, and procedures for managing system configuration(s); defines system configuration items and when in the system life cycle the items are placed under configuration management; and establishes means for identifying configuration items and a process for managing configurations.  The Contractor shall maintain an inventory of the components of the information system, establish baseline configurations for each component comprising the system, and control changes to the system and its configuration baselines via a documented and audited change management process.  The Contractor shall provide assurance to Peace Corps that these activities are performed.



C.4.9.	Continuous Monitoring of System Vulnerabilities


[FOR THIRD PARTY HOSTED SYSTEMS & SERVICES] The Contractor shall perform monthly scans for vulnerabilities in the system and any hosted applications, monthly and when new vulnerabilities applicable to the system or its applications are reported, using an industry-standard, updatable automated security scanning tool.  The Contractor shall ensure that vulnerability scan reports are analyzed monthly to identify legitimate vulnerabilities in the system or its hosted applications.  Identified vulnerabilities shall be mitigated within 24 hours of notification.  The Contractor shall provide assurance to Peace Corps that scans are performed, reports are analyzed, and identified vulnerabilities are remediated.



C.4.10.	Contingency Planning


[FOR THIRD PARTY HOSTED SYSTEMS & SERVICES] The Contractor shall maintain an Information System Contingency Plan that includes contact information for individuals responsible for responding to contingency incidents, the chain of communication for responding to system outages and other contingency events, and procedures for activating the contingency plan, recovering system capabilities at an alternate site, and reconstituting the system at its permanent site, to include validation of system processing and security functionality.  The Contractor annually shall train responsible parties on their contingency roles, exercise the contingency plan, and review and update the plan as required based on organizational changes and lessons learned during exercises. The Contractor shall provide assurance to Peace Corps that these activities are performed.



C.4.11.	Incident Response


[FOR THIRD PARTY HOSTED SYSTEMS & SERVICES] The Contractor shall maintain an Incident Response Plan that includes contact information for individuals responsible for reporting and responding to information security incidents, the chain of communication for reporting incidents and suspected incidents, and procedures for responding to incidents and suspected incidents.  The Contractor annually shall train responsible parties on their incident response roles, exercise the incident response plan, and review and update the plan as required based on organizational changes and lessons learned during exercises. The Contractor shall provide assurance to Peace Corps that these activities are performed.

[FOR ALL SYSTEMS AND SERVICES] Incidents shall be reported to Peace Corps in accordance with Peace Corps’ Incident Response Plan and Procedures.  The Contractor shall comply with Peace Corps requirements for timeliness in reporting incidents and suspected incidents.  



C.4.12.	Breach Notification


In accordance with Peace Corps’ Manual Section 899, Breach Notification Response Plan, the Contractor shall provide notification of a suspected or known breach promptly (within 4 hours) by calling Peace Corps’ Domestic Services Help Desk at 1-202-692-1000. 



A breach and/or incident means the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar term referring to situations where persons other than authorized users and for other than authorized purposes have access or potential access to Personally Identifiable Information () or Covered Information, whether physical or electronic.  Peace Corps’s Manual Section 899 is hereby incorporated into this purchase order and provides the definitions of  and Covered Information.  If a suspected or known breach occurs, the Contractor shall work with and provide necessary information, as requested, to Peace Corps’s Response Team, who will respond to the notification.  The Contractor shall comply with Peace Corps requirements for timeliness in reporting breaches and suspected breaches.



C.4.13.	Privacy Information


The Contractor, in the course of performing under the contract, shall be the custodian of, and therefore inherently will have access to, personally identifiable information (PII) and files protected under the Privacy Act.  Such information shall be kept secure whether it is in electronic or paper form.  Privacy Act systems of records include paper & electronic records that Peace Corps controls, and/or which are collected for Peace Corps.  Such records contain personal information about individuals which are accessed by name or any other personal identifier.  Any material or records that contain personal information on an individual, whether filed in a system of records or any other Agency file, should be treated in a confidential manner.  There are penalties under the Privacy Act if information is improperly disclosed.  The Contractor shall assist Peace Corps in meeting all requirements of the Privacy Act applicable to Peace Corps information held by the Contractor.



A Privacy Impact Assessment will be completed for this information system in advance of operations.  The Contractor must provide adequate documentation to complete the assessment.  Should such assessment show that the Contractor, system, or service will be in possession of sensitive PII (as defined by Peace Corps) on behalf of Peace Corps, the Contractor shall provide a detailed description of the security measures continuously protecting sensitive PII.



C.4.14.	Physical Security


The contractor shall meet physical security safeguard standards in accordance with the security control baseline appropriate to the categorized system impact as outlined in NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3.

Physical security of employee workspace at contractor sites is required.  This would include, but not be limited to: ensuring that file cabinets can be locked and are locked when appropriate, access to office space is controlled, and personally identifiable information is safeguarded in a locked container at all times when not under visual surveillance of contractor personnel. The Contractor shall provide Peace Corps with a complete list of possible physical locations outside the continental United States where Peace Corps data may reside.



C.4.15.	Secure Development


For systems developed for Peace Corps, the Contractor shall implement configuration management practices during system design, development, and implementation, including control and approval of system changes and tracking of security flaws and their resolution.  The Contractor shall ensure that the system development and implementation process includes the creation and implementation of a security test and evaluation plan, a verifiable flaw remediation process, and documentation of the results of security testing and flaw remediation.  



C.4.16.	Secure Operation


For systems delivered to Peace Corps to be operated and/or maintained by Peace Corps, the Contractor shall provide documented system administration procedures for the secure configuration, installation, and operation of the system as well as the use and maintenance of system security functions, and shall report any known vulnerabilities regarding the system configuration or administrative functions.  In addition, the Contractor shall provide documentation describing user-accessible security functions and their effective use, methods for users to interact with the system in the most secure possible manner, and any user responsibilities in maintaining system security.  System design documentation provided to Peace Corps shall include descriptions of the functional properties and implementation of security controls employed within the system and, if applicable, its subsystems, in sufficient detail to permit analysis and testing.



D.	CONTRACT TYPE



The Government anticipates awarding a firm-fixed-price contract.



E.	INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



All inspection and acceptance of the services and/or supplies shall be performed by the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), and shall be in accordance with FAR 52.212-4(a) Contract Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items.



F.	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The Government anticipates awarding a firm-fixed price contract consisting of one (1) nine-month Base Period four (4) one-year Options, as follows:



Base:                   November 2, 2012 through July 31, 2013 (9 months)

Option Year 1:   August 1, 2013 through July 31, 2014

Option Year 2:   August 1, 2014 through July 31, 2015

Option Year 3:   August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016

Option Year 4:   August 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017



G.	CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA



G.1.	Contract Management



Notwithstanding the Contractor's responsibility for total management during the performance of this contract, the administration of the contract will require coordination between the Peace Corps and the Contractor. The following individuals will be the Contractor's points of contact: 



Contracting Officer (CO) - All contract administration will be effected by the CO. Communications pertaining to contractual administrative matters shall be addressed to the CO. No changes in or deviation from the Statement of Work (SOW) shall be implemented without a written modification to the contract/s executed by CO, authorizing such changes.



Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) - A COR will be assigned at the time of award of this contract. The COR will be given authority by the CO to monitor all technical aspects and assist in the administration of the contract. The type of action within the purview of the COR's authority are: to assure that the Contractor performs all the technical requirements of the contract; to perform or cause to be performed all inspections necessary in connection with performance of the contract; and to maintain both written and oral communications with the Contractor concerning the technical aspects of the requirements. The COR shall monitor the Contractor's performance under the contract(s) and notify the Contractor and the CO of any deficiencies observed, as well as to coordinate Government furnished property and provide for site entry of Contractor personnel if required.



The COR is NOT authorized to change any of the terms and conditions of this contract(s). Only the CO is authorized to make changes to the SOW, through a properly executed modification to the contract(s).



The COR is NOT authorized to re-delegate his/her authority.



G.2.	Interpretation or Modification



No oral or written statement of any person and no written statement of anyone other than the

CO shall modify or otherwise affect the terms or meaning or this contract. Requests for interpretations, modifications or changes must be made in writing to the CO. The COR can only respond (verbally or in writing) to technical matters.



G.3.	Invoice Requirements



Invoices shall be submitted monthly, to the address shown on the cover page of the contract.

The format of the invoice and/or accompanying documentation shall be agreed to between the

COR and the Contractor. The invoice shall include the following information:



Name and address of the Contractor

Invoice date and invoice number

Period of performance covered by the invoice

Contract Number

Line item descriptions, price(s) and quantity(ies) of services and supplies for which payment is being requested

Shipping and payment terms, if any

EFT account/payment information (see below)

Costs incurred under the current voucher or costs incurred to date (cumulative)

Signature of the Contractor's authorized representative

Contractor's Tax Identification Number (TIN)



Electronic invoices should be sent to: . For questions regarding payments, contact the Disbursing Officer at (202) 692-1627 or  with reference to the contract and invoice numbers. 



G.4.	Mandatory Information for Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Payment



(a)	The Contractor is required, as a condition to any payment under this contract, to provide Peace Corps with the information required to make payment by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). Prior to submission of the first request for payment under this contract, the Contractor shall provide the following information on the Odyssey Domestic Vendor File Request Form (PC-708) provided as an Attachment to this contract at the time of award:

(1)	Business Name, address, 9-digit Routing Transit Number of the Contractor's financial institution;

(2) Contractor's account number and type of account (checking, saving or lockbox)

(3) DUNS number AND Tax Identification Number (TIN)



 (b)	If the Contractor's financial institution is not directly on-line to the Federal Reserve Wire Transfer System (i.e., stock brokerage, foreign bank, etc. and therefore, not the receiver of the wire transfer payment), the Contractor shall also provide the name, address and 9-digit Routing Transit Number of the correspondent financial institution (i.e., U.S. bank) receiving the wire transfer payment.



(c)	Notwithstanding the provisions of any other clause of this contract, Peace Corps is not required to make any payment under this contract until after receipt, by the designated payment office, of the correct EFT payment information for the Contractor. Until receipt of the correct EFT information, any invoice shall be deemed not to be a valid invoice as defined in the Prompt Payment clause of this contract.



(d)	If the EFT information changes after submission of correct EFT information, Peace Corps shall begin using the changed EFT information no later than the 30th day after its receipt to the extent payment is made by EFT. However, the Contractor may request that no further payment be made until the payment office implements corrected EFT information. If such suspension would result in a late payment under the Prompt Payment clause of this contract, the Contractor's request for suspension shall extend the due date for payment by the number of days of the suspension.



(e)	The Contractor shall designate a single financial agent capable of receiving and processing the electronic funds transfer using the EFT methods described in paragraph (a) of this clause. The Contractor shall pay all fees and charges for receipt and processing of transfers.



(f)	If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because Peace Corps failed to use the Contractor-provided EFT information in the correct manner, Peace Corps remains responsible for-



(i)	Making a correct payment;

(ii)	Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and

(iii)	Recovering any erroneously directed funds.



(g)	If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because Contractor-provided EFT information was incorrect at the time of Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve Systems and:

	 

	(i)	 If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, Peace Corps is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or

	(ii) 	If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, Peace Corps retains the right to either make payment by mail or suspend the payment in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause.



(h)	A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the Prompt Payment clause of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction given to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System.



(i)	When payment cannot be made by EFT because of incorrect EFT information provided by the Contractor, no interest penalty is due after the date of the uncompleted or erroneous payment transaction; provided that the notice is issued to the Contractor within 7 days after Peace Corps is notified of the defective EFT information.



(j)	If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided in the Assignment of Claims clause of this contract, the assignee shall provide Peace Corps with the assignee EFT information in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this clause.



(k)	If the Contractor does not wish to receive payment by EFT methods for one or more payment, the Contractor may submit a request to the designated payment office to refrain from requiring EFT information or using the EFT payment method. The decision to grant the request is solely that of Peace Corps.



(I)	The Contractor agrees that the Contractor's financial agent may notify Peace Corps of a change to the routing transit number, Contractor account number or account type, as if the Contractor provided it. Peace Corps shall use the changed data in accordance with this clause.



H.	SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS



H.1.	Peace Corps Survey Content Ownership



The Peace Corps retains all rights, interests, and privileges in all survey items created by Peace

Corps users and data produced by any Peace Corps surveys conducted under this procurement including associated reports, recommendations, briefings, and work plans. This includes all survey data under the basic contract and any additional task deliverables exercised by the Contracting Officer.  In addition, the survey data rights encompass any resultant survey data required by contract modification. 



The Contractor shall not use any items, response scales, data and surveys created in the course of this procurement for any commercial, research, or other purpose. The Contractor may not describe surveys used by the Peace Corps in the course of this procurement in any forum or media.  All survey data must be treated as Peace Corps proprietary information and safeguarded by the Contractor.



H.2.	Section 508—Electronic and Information Technology Standards 


The Contractor shall comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. § 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-220), August 7, 1998.

 [In December 2000, the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board), pursuant to Section 508(2)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998, established information technology accessibility standards for the federal government. Section 508(a)(1) requires that when federal departments or agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use Electronic and Information Technology (EIT), they shall ensure that the EIT allows federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of information and data by other Federal employees. The Section 508 requirement also applies to members of the public seeking information or services from a federal department or agency. Section 508 text is available at  or ]



H.3.	Confidentiality/Dissemination of Information



There shall be no dissemination or publication, except within and between the Contractor and any subcontractors, of information obtained or developed under this contract or contained in the reports to be furnished pursuant to this contract, without the prior written approval of the COR or CO.



H.4.	Advertising of Award

The Contractor agrees not to refer to awards in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed or preferred by the Peace Corps or is considered  by the Peace Corps to be superior to other products or services.

I.	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION CONTRACT CLAUSES AND PROVISIONS


SECTION I – CONTRACT CLAUSES

52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) – This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: 



52.201-1 DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES (JAN 2012)

52.203-5 CONVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984)

52.203-7 ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010)

52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration (FEB 2012)

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2011)

52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS—COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) 

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS—COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2012):



 (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

_X_(1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

__ (4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

_ X_ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 

__ (7) , Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). 

__ (8) , Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). 

__ (9) , Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (10) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (11) [Reserved] 

_X_ (12)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). 

__ (13)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (14) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

__ (15)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

__ (16) , Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). 

__ (17) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (18) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (19)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

__ (20) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (21) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (22) , Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (). 

__ (23)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (). 

__ (24) , Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (). 

__ (25) , Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (). 

_X_ (26) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

_X_ (27) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). 

_X_ (28) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

_X_ (29) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

_X_ (30) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). 

_X_ (31) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

_X_ (32) , Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

_X_ (33) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

__ (34) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

__ (35)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (36) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (37)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

_X_ (38) , Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513). 

__ (39) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (40)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (,  note,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, and 112-42). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of . 

__ (41) , Trade Agreements (May 2012) (, et seq.,  note). 

_X_ (42) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (43) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (44) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (45) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (46) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

_X_ (47) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

__ (48) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (49) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (50) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (51)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__ (1) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (2) , Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at , Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR , Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 

(End of clause) 

52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 1 day prior to contract expiration.

(End of clause)

52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 1 day; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 15 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years. 

(End of clause)


52.227-17 RIGHTS IN DATA – SPECIAL WORKS (DEC 2007) 



 (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 

“Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 

(b) Allocation of Rights. 

(1) The Government shall have— 

(i) Unlimited rights in all data delivered under this contract, and in all data first produced in the performance of this contract, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause. 

(ii) The right to limit assertion of copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract, and to obtain assignment of copyright in that data, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(iii) The right to limit the release and use of certain data in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. 

(2) The Contractor shall have, to the extent permission is granted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, the right to assert claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(c) Copyright— 

(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(i) The Contractor shall not assert or authorize others to assert any claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this contract without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer. When copyright is asserted, the Contractor shall affix the appropriate copyright notice of 7 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number) to the data when delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. The Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all delivered data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. 

(ii) If the Government desires to obtain copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract and permission has not been granted as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall direct the Contractor to assign (with or without registration), or obtain the assignment of, the copyright to the Government or its designated assignee. 

(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract and that contain the copyright notice of , unless the Contractor identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(d) Release and use restrictions. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced in the performance of this contract, nor authorize others to do so, without written permission of the Contracting Officer. 

(e) Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication, or use of any data furnished under this contract; or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor’s consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and these provisions do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies. 



(End of clause)



52.232-18 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS (APR 1984)



Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government’s obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer. 



(End of clause)



J.	LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



Attachment 1 – Odyssey Domestic Vendor File Request Form (PC-708)