Attachment 1
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 5

Performance Work Statement (PWS) For Information Technology Support Services
May 17, 2011

TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 12.0 13.0 14.0 15.0 16.0 17.0 INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY AND SERVICES TASK 1: VOICE & DATA TELECOMMUNICATIONS TASK 2: NETWORK SERVICES TASK 3: HELP DESK/HOTLINE DESKTOP/COMPUTER SUPPORT TASK 4: DATABASE ADMINISTRATION TASK 5: MICROSOFT WINDOWS SERVERS ADMINISTRATION TASK 6: COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND NETWORK SECURITY TASK 7: GREAT LAKES NATIONAL PROGRAM OFFICE SUPPORT STANDARDS AND REFERENCES WORK REQUESTS TRAVEL QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN PERFORMANCE MATRIX DELIVERABLES EPA KEY STAFF

LIST OF APPENDICES APPENDIX A B C D E F EXPERTISE/CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED HARDWARE/SOFTWARE ENVIRONMENT AND GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE PROPERTY INVENTORY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES CONTRACT WORK REQUEST FORM REGION 5 TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE REQUEST FORM CUSTOMER SERVICE SURVEY AGENCY PERSONAL VERIFICATION PROCEDURE FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL

2

1.0 INTRODUCTION (a) The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 5, located in Chicago, Illinois, requires IT support services including telecommunications, help desk support, database administration, Microsoft Windows servers and SAN systems administration, scientific and division-specific applications, wireless LAN, Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) support, computer security, and Great Lakes National Program Office (GLNPO) technical computer support. Region 5's areas of responsibility are the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin. The Resources Management Division's Information Management Branch (IMB) is responsible for all enterprise computing in Region 5, including telecommunications, systems and administrative support for all regional and national computer systems used in Region 5. (b) Currently, there are approximately 1735 personal computers in the U.S. EPA, Region 5 offices, of various makes and models. A list of the PC and printer makes and models of can be found in Appendix B. New equipment of varying makes and models may be acquired by the government during the contract period of performance. (c) EPA, Region 5 delivers IT services, support and programs in accordance with U.S. Federal and Agency guidance, policy and regulation. Links to representative documents can be found in Section 11. 1.1 Work To Be Performed. 1.1.1 The contractor shall provide all labor, supervision and transportation necessary to perform Information Technology (IT) services and support as defined in the PWS under the following categories: Telecommunications (Voice and Data), Network Services, Help Desk/Hotline and Personal Computer Systems and End User Support, Database Administration, Microsoft Windows File Server and Data Storage Systems, Computer Desktop and Network Security, and Great Lakes National Program Office (GLNPO) Systems. 1.1.2 Responsibilities include support for the entire EPA Region 5 IT environment, including network connectivity from the EPA Wide Area Network (WAN) core switch through the Local Area Network (LAN) to Region 5 employees, all network attached equipment such as printers and personal computers, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) systems, and all desktop or server based software that supports Region 5 employees in achieving EPA's mission to protect human health and the environment. The scope of the PWS includes special regional needs such as office systems, emerging technologies, administrative support platforms, and compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. 1.2 Place(s) Of Performance: The primary place of performance is the U.S. EPA Region 5 Office, located at 77 West Jackson Blvd; Chicago, Illinois 60604. In addition, the contractor shall provide support/services described in this PWS to alternate, remote, and satellite offices listed below: 1.2.1 Additional Chicago Locations: EPA Chicago Regional Laboratory (CRL) 536 South Clark Street Chicago, IL 60605
3

Criminal Investigations Division (CID) 300 South Riverside Chicago, IL 60606 1.2.2 Alternate Sites: Region 5 Disaster Recovery Site(s) -The addresses to these locations will be provided upon award. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) Facility/Superfund Warehouse, Willowbrook, IL Office of Superfund, Emergency Operations Center, Des Plaines, IL 1.2.3 Satellite Offices: Grosse Ile, MI office 9311 Groh Road Grosse Ile, MI 48138 Westlake, OH office 25089 Center Ridge Road Westlake, OH 44145 Middleburg Heights, OH office RV Lake Guardian Dry Dock Milwaukee, WI Saginaw, MI office 1.2.4 Off-Site Reasonable Accommodation (RA) users residences: When required, the contractor shall provide all labor, supervision and transport necessary to perform Electronic Information Technology (EIT) services and support for approved RA employees with disabilities in their residences within the Region 5 geographical area, usually within the Chicago metropolitan area. 1.3 Quality Control: The contractor shall establish and maintain a complete quality control plan. The purpose of the quality control plan is to identify the processes, techniques, and tools that will allow the contractor to meet or exceed the performance requirements identified in the PWS. At a minimum, the plan shall include the contractors approach and ability to ensure accomplishment of each PWS task, all applicable internal management controls, and identification of the roles and responsibilities of personnel responsible for quality control. The contractor shall submit the quality control plan within thirty days after contract award. 1.4 Government Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan: The government will monitor and evaluate the contractor's performance under each task in accordance with the PWS performance standards identified in the Performance Matrix located in Section 15.

4

1.5 Hours of Operation: Central Standard Time (CST) 1.5.1 The Region 5 Network Operations Center (NOC) support hours shall be Monday through Friday from 6:45 AM -5:00 PM (CST). 1.5.2 The Regional Hotline/3Help Desk support hours shall be Monday through Friday from 6:45AM - 5:00 PM (CST). 1.5.3 The GLNPO external LAN support hours shall be Monday through Friday from 6:45AM - 5:00 PM (CST). 1.5.4 The production hours to support for all other contract tasks/subtasks will normally, be Monday through Friday from 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM (CST). If tasks are required to be performed outside the normal core EPA hours or days, the Project Officer can approve the deviation in days or hours but the core 40 hours per week must be maintained. 1.5.5 Holidays: The Contractor shall provide coverage Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays. Federal holidays are: New Year's Day President's Day Independence Day Columbus Day Thanksgiving Day Martin Luther King Jr. Day Memorial Day Labor Day Veterans Day Christmas Day

In addition to the above holidays, the government may observe any day designated by the EPA Region 5, Regional Administrator, Executive Order, or President's Proclamation as a Federal Holiday. In the event the Chicago regional office is closed early (for early dismissal), the Project Officer and the Contractor will mutually agree if an early dismissal of contractor personnel will be authorized. 1.5.6 Emergency Services: In the event of an emergency, Region 5 will request and prioritize the requirements for IT services and support as warranted by the situation which could include the full spectrum of man-made, natural, or technological emergencies. These requirements will be identified to the U.S. EPA Project Officer and/or the IMB Information Technology Section Chief. A Regional Work Request will be provided to the contractor if these services are required. 1.5.7 Support for Emergency Response off-site support. On occasion, IT off-site support will be requested by the Region 5 Divisions during an emergency response event within the regional six-state area. These visits are required according to need and the extent of the situation. The actual requirements will be identified to the U.S. EPA Project Officer and/or the IMB Information Technology Section Chief. Any services required will be comparable to the services performed in the main Regional office. A Regional Work Request will be provided to the contractor if these services are required.

5

1.5.8

Performance of Services during a Crisis Declared by the EPA.

1.5.8.1 The Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) provides guidance and procedures that allow EPA Region 5 to continue or rebuild essential operations in the aftermath of an emergency. This Plan applies to the full spectrum of man-made, natural, or technological emergencies. The provisions of the COOP are applicable to all EPA, contractor, and grantee personnel, and any other Federal personnel with EPA as their duty station. This Plan covers EPA locations at U.S. EPA- Region 5 Chicago Regional Office and the EPA CRL. The CID is also included for space planning at the emergency relocation site, and services will be provided to the Superfund Division, Emergency Operations Center located in Des Plaines, IL. 1.5.8.2 EPA Region 5 will require contractor services to support the COOP. The contractor shall submit a Work Plan within 30 days after contract award, which at a minimum, addresses: 1.5.8.2.1 Contractor's internal structure to respond to an emergency activation, including; identifying contractor management who can be reached at all times; 1.5.8.2.2 Quantities and cost of labor, equipment and materials, outside services, and travel and miscellaneous items to provide telecommunications and related services. 1.5.8.3 The primary reference for the COOP and similar activities within the Federal government is Homeland Security Presidential Directive- 20 (HSPD-20), dated May 9, 2007, and the Federal Continuity Directive 1 (FCD-1), dated February, 2008. EPA Order 2030.1A, dated April 27, 2005, establishes Agency policy with regards to COOP. A copy of this Order will be provided to the contractor upon contract award. 1.6 Personnel 1.6.1 Onsite Manager: The contractor shall provide an Onsite Manager. The contractor's Onsite Manager shall be responsible for all of the work performed under this contract. S/he will be the primary point of contact for the EPA Project Officer 1.6.1.1 The contractor's Onsite-Manager shall assign contractor personnel to various projects and direct their activities. 1.6.1.2 The contractor's Onsite Manager shall inform the Project Officer regarding contractor performance and scheduling issues on all contract tasks, and sub-tasks. 1.6.1.3 The contractor's Onsite Manager shall inform the designated IMB Task Manager(s) and Project Officer regarding scheduling issues of specific tasks and/or subtasks. 1.6.2 Security and Privacy: The contractor shall comply with the security policies established by EPA Region 5. The policies will be made available to the contractor upon contract award. (See PWS Section 11.0, Standards and References.)

6

1.6.2.1 The Government requires contractor personnel to comply with Agency Personal Identity Verification Procedures (Appendix F), implemented by the Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12). The contractor personnel shall have, at a minimum, the National Agency Check with the Inquiry (NACI). 1.6.2.2 Contractor personnel may have access to sensitive data in the performance of assigned work. Contractor staff are prohibited from releasing any information about EPA files, data processing activities, functions, user identifications, passwords or any other knowledge of EPA operations or data unless authorized by a designated EPA Contracting Officer. All contractor employees working on this contract are required to submit to background checks and sign confidentiality agreements to ensure sensitive data is not released. Each contractor employee with access to sensitive and/or confidential business information data or systems, is required to sign a statement that they have been briefed, understood and will comply with EPA and Region 5's security and privacy rules. The contractor shall submit the signed statements to the Project Officer within 30 days after award or within three days of working with sensitive data. 1.6.2.3 The Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by its employees with the physical security regulations of locations where work is being performed under this contract. 1.6.2.4 Contractor employee orientation shall include a contractor conducted employee briefing of the EPA provided policies with recurring six month reviews. New employees must be briefed within 30 days of employment 1.6.2.5 The contractor shall wear a contractor photo ID badge for purposes of official contractor identification. The contractor shall provide company ID badges to incoming employee(s) upon their entry on duty (EOD). 1.6.2.6 The contractor shall wear an EPA ID badge on their person in conjunction with the contractor ID badge, at all times when in EPA office space. The EPA Project Officer will coordinate all EPA ID badge requests for processing in. Requests for EPA provided ID badges shall be processed upon employee start date. ID badges will be provided by the EPA. 1.6.2.7 The contractor shall utilize the U.S. EPA proper controls and procedures for all Information Technology, Telecommunications, word processing, and office equipment under this contract. See Standards and References designated in Section 11.0 of the PWS. 1.6.2.8 The contractor shall be required to complete all U.S. EPA mandatory IT security training. 1.6.3 Expertise: Contractor personnel shall meet and maintain certifications and qualifications as defined in Appendix A.

7

2.0 DEFINITIONS 2.1 Technical Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms Assistive Technology (AT): hardware and software provided to EPA users with disabilities to assist them in using Information Technologies and general computer equipment. ASSERT: Assessment Self Evaluation and Remediation Tool. The ASSERT system is a tool which supports the National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Special Publication 800-53, and the Office of Management and Budget's requirements for reporting under FISMA. Chicago Regional Laboratory (CRL): The Chicago Regional Laboratory (CRL) supports EPA Region 5 Divisions, Program Offices, GLNPO, and other EPA offices to enhance environmental decision making by using information technology to collect, analyze, store, and disseminate laboratory data. Cold Backups: Offline backups of Oracle databases, i.e., the databases are closed and not accessible. Contracting Officer (CO): A "Contracting Officer" is a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determination and findings. Database Administration: Providing operation and maintenance of databases located both regionally and at EPA Headquarters in Washington, DC or Research Triangle Park located in Raleigh, North Carolina. Relevant databases are upgraded via patches/files. Disaster Recovery Backup Tape: Tapes that are used by the NOC operator to aid in the backup procedure for the Regional Disaster Recovery process. Electronic Information Technology (EIT): term used mainly with users with disabilities. It includes hardware, software and peripherals given to users to aid them in accessing Agency information. Example of EIT items are: keyboards, roller mice, telephones, printers, screen reading software, headsets, software magnifiers, CCTVs, monitors, etc. EPA Security Procedures-NOC: This is a sensitive security document and will be provided to the contractor after award of contract. EPA White Paper Standard Configuration: Technical guidelines provided by EPA headquarters for regional compliance. FDCC: Federal Desktop Computer Configuration. A desktop configuration mandated by the government for all government computers with the current standard operating system. FTS 2000: Federal Telecommunications System ­ Phone System. GSA: General Services Administration GIS: Geographical Information System GIS, Scientific, and Division Specific Application Support: ORACLE database providing support for scientific user community both locally and nationally. GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator: The GLNPO employee responsible for the Administration of the GLNPO experimental, external and research vessel Windows network operating systems. The GLNPO LAN administrator is specific to Task 9. GLNPO EPA IT Security Officer: The information security officer in GLNPO who is responsible for data security on GLNPO's experimental, external, and research vessel networks GLNPO-TM: Great Lakes National Program Office Task Manager ­ Technical Point of Contact. Government Owned Contractor Operated Property: Property in the possession of, or directly acquired by, the government and subsequently made available to the contractor while performing work on a government installation.
8

HEAT (Hotline Problem Tracking System): Regional HelpDesk Tracking Database. The Database is utilized by the contractor to generate HEAT tickets that are used to track all users' problems and resolutions. Hot Backups: Online backups of Oracle databases, i.e., the databases are open and accessible. Hotline/Help Desk: The Help Desk shall act as the single point of contact for routine user LAN, WAN, Desktop and telecommunication problems. The Help Desk shall support users in resolving problems and when necessary, make the appropriate referrals to EPA staff for problem resolution. IMB: Information Management Branch IMB DESKTOP Technical Manager: IMB senior staff person responsible for managing the IMB Desktop functional area. IMB DESKTOP Team: The IMB/Desktop Team is responsible for the overall management/deployment and service of Regional desktop operating system images for all Region 5 sites. ISO: Information Security Officer. ISPF: Interactive System Productivity Facility LAN : Local Area Network- Group of personal computers connected thru a Cisco Switch to a Server. This connectivity allows multiple users to share files and resources. LAN Computer Services and Software: This is a requirement for the provision, and functionality of services and support within EPA's hardware/ software environment and field network control facilities, such as centralized LAN management facilities that monitor and control all types of telecommunications services. This will include configuration of desktops, servers, routers, data switches and similar network components, as well as software which is approved for use in EPA Data Networks. LAN SA: Local Area Network System Administrator. LIMS: Laboratory Information Management System. A commercial software package supporting the business processes of the CRL. Major/Critical NOC Equipment failures: Equipment failures that affect the entire Region. The outage will be considered major/critical if not resolved within one hour. Malicious programs: Viruses and other unauthorized programs which are harmful to the LAN. Microsoft Office Server Administration: Providing Microsoft Office Windows system support. This support is required at both the local and national levels, Multiple Virtual Storage: Operator software used to cancel/purge/transfer/release/ or purge jobs Network Attached Storage (NAS): A hardware appliance used for data backup and storage. Network Operation Center (NOC) Operator console: Equipment that enables the operator to route, purge, print, control output/input being routed to and away from Region 5. Nonstandard Software: Nonstandard software is defined as software not currently on the original image for the training room PC(s). This includes Internet downloads, demos, beta versions, EPA special purchased software, Non-EPA software, Headquarters updates, and any other software not provided by the Region. OS: Operating Systems Permissions: Appropriate level of rights assigned to users to access files and directories. Printer Pool: Extra regional printers that are utilized in areas where the existing printer is out of the area for repair. Project Officer (PO): EPA employee who is responsible for oversight of the Regional Information Technology support Contract. Reasonable Accommodation (RA): EPA National program for employees with disabilities
9

who have special computer related needs and require non-standard hardware and software to use Agency information. Remote User: Any EPA employee who is working at a location other than 77 W. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604. RDBMS: Relational Database Management System Report Generation: Developing mechanism for providing data to Region 5 users and management. RTP: Research Triangle Park (Headquarters Support) SAN Systems Administration Support: Provide Storage Area Network (SAN) hardware and software support at both the local and national levels. SDSF: Spool Display System Facility Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act: Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires all electronic government information to be made accessible to users who use assistive technology. SITS: Regional Software Inventory Tracking System SLIC: Self Learning Information Center. The Region 5 IMB Desktop Team is responsible for providing services and hardware/software support for the Regional Computer Training Room and Self Learning Center (SLIC). Task Manager (TM): The TM is the IMB Task Leader who interacts with the contractor to provide technical discussion or direction and Clarification of Work Requests. Task Order (TO or Order): An order for services placed against an established contract. Technical/Interchange Meeting: A meeting held between the EPA TM and the contractor. The contractor shall notify the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending, via e-mail. Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) ­ The TPOC is an appointed Contracting Officer Representative (COR) who has diverse skills and expertise that can be shared with the contractor for a specific work request projects. The TPOC will be assigned or delegated by the Project Officer or Task Manager as needed in a work request to keep the work flowing. United States Government Computer Baseline (USGCB) - A desktop security configuration mandated by the government for all government computers with the MS Windows 7, or higher, operating system. Voice and Data Support: This involves the full range of voice, video, data, desktop, wireless and combined telecommunication services such as installing, configuring, testing, and providing user training as appropriate for any new telephone or voice processing equipment, service or applications that the Region currently uses or acquires. VoIP: Voice over Internet Protocol. WAN: Wide Area Network Local Area Network- Group of personal computers connected thru a Cisco Switch to a Server. This connectivity allows global users to share files and resources. Windows XP/7: Desktop Operating Systems Work Request Form: The Work Request Form is used to initiate all contractor work assignments. On this form the requestor will include a description of the work to be performed, expected deliverables, schedules or priorities to be followed, acceptance criteria, and delivery instructions. The EPA Project Officer will retain all original Work Request Forms for Government review. An electronic copy and a hardcopy of the Work Request Form will be provided to the On-Site Manager. The On-Site Manager shall retain this copy. Workforce Development Team: The Workforce Development Team schedules training and conferences in the 12th floor conference rooms. The Workforce Development Team will create a Help Desk ticket if IT services are required for software and hardware installation to ensure the class can be conducted properly.
10

3.0 GOVERNMENT OWNED CONTRACTOR OPERATED PROPERTY AND SERVICES: The government will provide the facilities, equipment, materials, and services listed below. 3.1 Government Owned Contractor Operated Property: The government will provide the equipment, materials, services, and utilities listed hereunder. The government retains the right to inspect, inventory, or audit any GFP issued to the contractor in connection with this Order. All government furnished items shall be used exclusively for performance under this contract. 3.1.1 Government Furnished Facilities

3.1.1.1 The government will provide office space and a limited amount of space for the storage of U.S. EPA spare equipment and mandatory files. 3.1.1.2 The government will provide hardware/software, computer time and access, local and long distance telephone service, and limited reproduction equipment. All long distance calls are required to be placed utilizing the Federal Telecommunications System (FTS) 1000 Networx. 3.1.2 Accountable GFP Prior to, or upon completion or termination of all work requirements stated in this contract, the Contractor shall return any keys, access cards, ID cards, and/or badges, or other accountable property, to the Project Officer or his/her authorized designee. The contractor shall complete an exit form, with all the necessary signatures, upon completion or termination of the work requirements ordered. The contractor shall obtain property pass documentation to remove and return EIT equipment to 77 W. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, primary location. 3.1.3 Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) The government will provide the contractor GFE as listed in Appendix B. 3.1.4 Access to EPA employees. The contractor shall coordinate with the U.S. EPA Project Officer if access to EPA personnel, other than the TM, is required in order to complete a task, unless otherwise specified in the Work Request. 3.1.5 Contractor-Furnished Property (CFP) The contractor shall provide their employees with office supplies and equipment necessary to effectively perform its job responsibilities. (Examples of supplies and equipment include, but are not limited to, pens, paper, staplers, pencils, diskettes, fax machine, CDs, DVDs, etc.)

11

4.0 TASK 1: VOICE AND DATA TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT 4.1.1 The contractor shall provide ongoing voice and data telecommunications operations support, including installation and maintenance work, at any EPA Region 5 location. The EPA will order all adds, moves, changes, and requests for maintenance and repair via the EPA Telecommunication Service Request (TSR). (See Appendix D) The contractor shall notify the Project Officer and TM (s) via e-mail of any meetings before attending. 4.1.2 The contractor shall install and maintain telecommunications equipment, performing routine and emergency maintenance and coordinating maintenance and repairs with vendors. 4.1.3 The contractor shall provide centralized telecommunications infrastructure support with emphasis on voice, video, PC desktop, data and cabling services, including build out of telecommunications closets for new buildings, and buildings (or individual offices) requiring renovation. For all projects, the government will provide: 4.1.3.1 All components of building wiring plant (i.e., cable, connectors, closet hardware, conduit, etc.); 4.1.3.2 All telecommunications materials and supplies 4.1.3.3 Office computing and local area communications parts, spares, software and ancillary items, and warranty services, if required; 4.1.3.4 Local area communications circuits leased from carriers for use in meeting Agency telecommunications requirements; 4.1.3.5 Major telecommunications system components including voice processing systems, hubs, routers, data switches, servers, conferencing bridges and other telecommunications and data processing equipment required for the operation and maintenance of communications networks. 4.2 Administrative and Support Functions for Telecommunication Operations. 4.2.1 The contractor shall provide routine administration and support functions related to ongoing telecommunications operations. Weekly support and summary of all work expected, completed or started will be provided to EPA as indicated in Section 16 of PWS. A summary report will be provided monthly to EPA of all activity done under this task with statistics and written narratives. 4.2.2 The contractor shall monitor usage and capacity of the telecommunications equipment and requirements on a continuous basis to ensure quality of service. 4.2.3 The contractor shall verify the operation of the system, and all features, including call routing, programmed features, and alarm indicators and coordinate between any telecommunication service providers to ensure quality service.

12

4.2.4 The contractor shall update, and maintain EPA Region 5's Telephone Inventory System. This system provides an accurate record of phone lines, IP addresses for VOIP phones, equipment, and services. This requirement will include reconciling line inventory with the GSA, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) managed service provider and local/long distance service providers. A telephone inventory listing and VoIP IP address listing shall be provided on an as-needed basis to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS. 4.2.5 The contractor shall support the FTS (Federal Telecommunication System) GSA, and VoIP managed service provider ordering process by maintaining support documentation when required for voice, video, data, and combined telecommunications services. 4.2.5.1 The contractor shall respond to telecommunications service orders, coordinate all work to complete the installation process, and wire EPA-occupied buildings. The types of telecommunications services the contractor is required to configure and implement are telephone and voice processing services. (See Section 1.2, Place of Performance, for information about the locations where work will be performed.) 4.2.5.2 The contractor will be responsible for level 1 support tasks for telephone service including moving phones within the location, adding new phones to the system, and making changes to existing phones. Any more difficult problems will be escalated to the VoIP managed service provider level 2 support group. 4.3 The contractor shall provide user support services, including user instruction and when required, research billing records for patterns of abuse. 4.3.1 The contractor shall participate in technical meetings, conferences and provide instructional guidance on telecommunications systems and equipment relating to voice, video, and data communications. 4.3.2 The contractor shall support operating the VoIP managed service voice mail equipment, voice processing system, and related power systems at EPA's Region 5 offices and field sites. The contractor shall provide routine and emergency maintenance services for the Voice mail system located at any Region 5 location including NOC. 4.3.3 The contractor shall recommend ordering levels and configurations. This information shall be sent via email to the EPA staff identified in Section 17.0 of the PWS, at the end of the first work week of each month. 4.3.4 The contractor shall provide service verification, installation coordination and related reporting services when necessary and requested. 4.3.5 The contractor shall research solutions for network services in functional areas where the General Services Administration (GSA) or VoIP Managed ServiceService Provider is not able to provide telecommunications transmission between buildings, localities, or areas of the country, or internationally.

13

4.4 Locator Database, Regional (Locator) Telephone Directories, VoIP Dynamic Host Configuration Protcol (DHCP) Server Database and Audio Visual Equipment. 4.4.1 The contractor shall maintain the EPA Regional Telephone Database and VOIP DHCP Server Database. The contractor shall utilize software either provided by or recommended to the appropriate Region 5 staff Data is updated, reviewed by R5 EPA staff, and sent to EPA Headquarters monthly. 4.4.2 The contractor shall maintain, upgrade, and provide periodic system enhancements to the Regional Telephone Database, as required 4.5 The contractor shall set up, operate and maintain audiovisual equipment utilized in EPA's Region 5, 12th floor Conference Center and conference rooms on all EPA occupied floors, ensuring systems are fully functional. The requirement includes installation, equipment set-up, and testing, guidance, and technical assistance to video teleconference attendees. Region 5 utilizes both ISDN and IP technology based audiovideo equipment. 4.6 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below. 4.6.1 The contractor shall notify and obtain approval from the TM or Alternate TM via email when requesting routine service or verbally, for emergency service; from non-EPA entities, such as GSA, VoIP managed service provider or other EPA offices; such as Criminal Investigation Division (CID) , Office of Investigation (OIG). 4.6.2 Prior to requesting maintenance or repair service, the contractor shall obtain maintenance information and approval from TM or Alternate TM. 4.6.3 The contractor shall email a list of telecommunications supplies required for routine day to day services and special projects; to the TM, Alternate TM, and Point of Contact (POC). The list shall include; item description, item number, estimated amount, vendor name and phone number and justification for the equipment. 4.6.4 Contractor will be working with an Agency Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) managed service provider providing level 1 support; instances requiring level 2 support will be provided by the VoIP managed service provider

14

5.0 TASK 2: NETWORK SERVICES 5.1 Region 5 System Network Services: The contractor shall operate, maintain, and support the full variety of Local Area Network LAN services at U.S. EPA, Region 5. The contractor shall notify the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) or TPOC(s) before attending, via email. 5.1.1 The contractor shall support operations of EPA Region 5's NOC which supports approximately 1,500 EPA personnel and includes both on-site and remote customers. This includes connectivity to the EPA Regional office, alternate sites, remote sites, satellite offices, and Research Triangle Park, NC, the location of EPA's Network Technology Services Division (NTSD). 5.1.2 The contractor shall provide staff coverage for the NOC, from 6:45 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each Federal work day. 5.1.3 The contractor shall control and monitor output jobs during daily backup operation to prevent job over-runs. The contractor shall not schedule backups during production hours. 5.1.4 The contractor shall maintain the hardware components of the computer system(s). When there is a NOC equipment failure, the contractor shall immediately notify the EPA Task Manager or TPOC. The procedure for notification will be documented in an on-going Work Request. The contractor shall be responsible for contacting the authorized vendors (lists to be provided after award) for repair. 5.1.5 The contractor shall implement and perform scheduled preventative and remedial maintenance activities in accordance with equipment specifications for all LAN computer room equipment. This procedure shall be for equipment requiring preventative maintenance not covered by a warranty agreement (See Appendix B for equipment). The purpose of this function is to minimize downtime in order to achieve efficient operations, which include periodic testing and inspection designated by the EPA Technical Manager. 5.1.6 The contractor shall provide analysis, troubleshooting, repair, integration, installation, operations, maintenance, and documentation for the Region 5 LAN (main Regional Office and remote buildings and sites). The documentation includes schematics, asset and configuration records, operations procedures, standards, and related documents. The Contractor shall also maintain a centralized technical assistance service that supports problem resolution and distributes general LAN information. 5.1.7 The contractor shall manage tape and/or disk-to-disk (D2D) resources with the use of an automated database log. 5.1.8 The contractor shall provide electronic documentation on the backup procedures, i.e., backup schedules, tape or disk-naming convention, and rotational schemes for offsite storage. The contractor shall provide step-by-step instructions for the backup operations and log daily backup activities. The contractor shall submit the backup procedure documentation to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS, no later than forty-five calendar days after award of the contract.
15

5.1.9 The contractor shall provide full and incremental backups to tape, full and incremental backups utilizing D2D and Data de-duplication. All data sets that have been changed or added on a daily basis, on all designated Regional LAN file/client servers, Virtual servers, SAN/NAS data, Microsoft Systems, Sequential Query Language (SQL), Lotus Notes, National/Regional Oracle data and Active Directory. The contractor shall provide a report to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS when the information is changed. 5.1.9.1 The contractor shall restore data sets from tape and/or D2D when requested by the Region 5, EPA Systems LAN Administrator, or designated Contractor LAN Support person. 5.1.9.2 data. The contractor shall verify and ensure the integrity and validity of backed-up

5.1.9.3 The contractor shall provide daily full-volume backups to Optical Disk of all Region 5 Scripts direct access storage device (DASD) volumes. Usually, backups are performed according to the schedule displayed on the Backup utility, such as, ArcServe, BackupExec and CommVault. The EPA Technical Point of Contact will coordinate Emergency situations. 5.1.9.4 The contractor shall prepare monthly Tape Volumes containing a full backup of each available server for off-site storage for the purpose of Disaster Recovery. The NOC operator shall retain the tapes and/or D2D according to the schedule provided by the EPA Technical Point of Contact. 5.1.9.5 The contractor shall verify that backup media is delivered and received at the designated off-site storage location. The contractor shall provide ancillary library functions which include maintaining, cleaning, and degaussing tapes, as well as updating logs as backup media are delivered to the designated delivery location. 5.2 Disaster Recovery Backup Tape Support: The contractor shall execute the Disaster Recovery Backup Tape Procedure established by EPA. This is in addition to the task of providing full and incremental backups of designated Regional file server data to tape and/or D2D. U.S. EPA, Region 5 has contracted with an off-site storage facility to store LAN data media. The service is an EPA requirement if partial or full restoration of data is required due to catastrophic events. 5.2.1 The contractor shall pack the weekly backup tapes in a fireproof security suitcase provided by the storage company according to the pickup schedule. The tapes will be picked up on Friday, of each work week; during Federal work hours between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. The storage company will pick up the Region's file server backup tapes from the Chicago Regional Office, and store them at an off-site location. In case of non-pick up by the storage company due to Federal Holiday(s), or special circumstances, the tapes will be delivered to the alternate offsite location at the U.S. EPA CRL. Conversely, the contractor shall transport the CRL file server backup tapes from CRL to the backup tape storage safe located in the NOC, computer room at the Chicago Regional Office.

16

5.2.2 The contractor shall develop, update, and maintain a Lotus Notes database to track the tape transport activities, which identifies the date of transport, name of tape sets transported, storage location of each tape set, and proof of delivery. 5.2.3 The contractor shall provide weekly and monthly reports of the tape transport activity to the EPA Project Officer and the EPA Task Manager as indicated in Section 16 of the PWS. 5.2.4 The contractor shall provide prompt responses and resolutions for problems that arise on a day-to-day basis with LAN equipment and applications. The contractor shall maintain a complete record of equipment malfunctions and the various data management logs, including coordination of the problems in the Server Log Database. The contractor shall immediately notify the Region 5, EPA Technical Point of Contact of equipment failures determined to be "major" or "critical." 5.2.5 The contractor shall document and report every failure. If any problem persists, the contractor shall immediately notify the EPA Technical Point of Contact. 5.2.6 The contractor shall maintain and execute a beginning-of-day verification that all network services are available. 5.2.7 The contractor shall gather and formulate statistical operations data and submit the data in a weekly report to the EPA Staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS. 5.2.8 The contractor shall maintain a clean and orderly environment within the computer room, user room, and data preparation area. 5.2.9 The contractor shall maintain a spreadsheet of all computer supplies during the period of performance of contract. The contractor shall provide a monthly report to the EPA staff identified in Section 16, Deliverables, of the PWS when the information is changed. 5.2.10 The contractor shall adhere to security procedures established by EPA to ensure that only authorized personnel have access to the NOC. 5.2.11 The contractor shall operate all types of computer room (NOC) hardware and software systems at EPA Region 5 locations as designated in Appendix B. 5.2.11.1 The contractor shall provide and maintain an organized and current set of documentation for the Region 5 LAN design. This shall include documentation of the system architecture, hardware, software, and circuits for each system and user(s). The contractor shall maintain all user manuals and programmer maintenance manuals. 5.2.11.2 The contractor shall perform analysis, evaluate and monitor computer room equipment/software daily for performance using tools such as Cisco works. This also includes determination of any technical changes necessary for LAN hardware/software to meet requirements, coordinating with office system vendors and users on efficient and effective use of the system, providing information and justifications for additions and modifications to hardware and software for LAN network systems, and supplying refreshment to meet operational requirements and ensuring work progress to meet changing deadlines.
17

5.2.11.3 The contractor shall provide and demonstrate new capabilities available on the LAN to EPA staff as appropriate and as requested by the EPA TM. The contractor shall provide the EPA technical staff with up-to-date information and knowledge on LAN management, hardware, and software. 5.2.11.4 The contractor shall provide assistance and help users in all areas related to the LAN. The contractor shall coordinate, track, and measure Work Requests to ensure that customer requests are handled expeditiously. The contractor shall also keep the PO informed of significant changes in workload status. 5.2.11.5 The contractor shall provide direct support to remote offices and terminals that connect to and acquire services from the R5 LAN. 5.2.11.6 The contractor shall meet weekly (and as otherwise required) with EPA technical staff. The contractor shall provide a weekly report to the Project Officer. The weekly report shall include a summary of progress and status on activities and plans. The report shall include what was requested and accomplished, problems identified, and the response to these problems during the week. The contractor will also provide a monthly summary as designated in Section 16 of the PWS of work performed with statistics and narratives noting problems and corrective measures recommend for this task. 5.2.12 The contractor, on an as-needed basis, shall participate in EPA workshops and system administration conference calls. 5.3 Wide Area Network (WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN) Connectivity Support: The technical environment includes: Cisco routers/switches; protocol analysis diagnostics and related peripheral equipment. All adds, moves, changes, and requests for maintenance/repair shall be requested through the Regional TSR Work Request procedure for network services. 5.3.1 The contractor shall provide monitoring, maintenance and management of the Regional Ethernet network. The network consists of various Cisco Catalyst switches, Cisco routers and switches, Cisco Works Switched Internet (CWSI) monitoring system, T-1, DS1/DS3, OC3 Channel Service Units and Data Service Units and associated peripheral equipment. 5.3.2 The contractor shall monitor various hardware components of the network, Ethernet, telecommunications equipment, and associated peripheral equipment located in the computer room and LAN closets. Monitoring shall consist of operating/monitoring primary consoles, responding to message/error conditions, recording errors, and notifying designated personnel of hardware status. Monitoring shall also include filtering, administration, and logging. The contractor shall independently resolve problems which may arise. 5.3.3 The contractor shall perform scheduled preventative maintenance activities in accordance with equipment specifications, for all networked computer room equipment requiring preventative maintenance and not covered by a vendor maintenance agreement. (See Appendix B for equipment).

18

5.3.4 The contractor shall develop, maintain, and update an electronic log providing serial number, type, model, and location of equipment for inventory purposes. The contractor shall have the data available for the IMB Network Technical Manager when an assessment of the system is required. Any additional maintenance shall also be reported in accordance with Agency procedures. 5.3.5 The contractor shall maintain and update regularly, an organized, current set of all Network Operations documentation. 5.3.6 The contractor shall provide network administration, diagnostic, development and management services utilizing EPA network management tools for network operation in the Chicago Regional Office, Alternate Locations, and Satellite Locations. 5.3.7 The contractor shall maintain logs of up-time, down-time, and hours of operation for all Network computer room equipment. These logs shall include the system activity log, equipment utilization statistics, and equipment malfunction report. These logs shall be made available to EPA when needed. 5.3.8 The contractor shall maintain logs itemizing all network maintenance, troubleshooting, script changes and LAN/WAN patches. 5.3.9 The contractor shall perform analysis, testing, documentation, implementation, and diagnostics and maintenance of network telecommunications applications for the LAN/WAN. This includes maintaining current systems, remote access, and Internet access via the LAN/WAN for the purpose of network capacity planning, load analysis, protocol analysis, redesign, and reorganization. 5.3.10 The contractor shall check the support sites for all installed LAN/WAN software for the latest revision and security patches. The contractor shall download and test updates prior to implementation on the active network. The contractor shall provide implementation recommendations to the TM. 5.3.11 The contractor shall maintain technical expertise for network computer operations including any new hardware and software systems which may be added to operations. 5.3.12 The contractor shall perform wiring tasks associated with data wiring required for the attachment of computer devices such as cross connects at the PC. 5.3.13 The contractor shall test and resolve system telecommunications problems with the National Computer Center (NCC), Enterprise Technology Services Division (ETSD) , Research Triangle Park (RTP), North Carolina.

19

5.4 Wireless LAN (WLAN) Support: The contractor shall provide support for the EPA and authorized non-EPA wireless clients, including the designated training wireless laptops. The support of the designated training wireless laptops consists of installing/upgrading, configuring and maintaining the wireless client software; installing and maintaining the Antivirus software, and upgrading the wireless clients' OS with the latest patches. For Security concerns the software maintenance/updates are expected to be performed at least every two weeks. However, the frequency of the maintenance schedule will be dictated by urgent events or needs, e.g., critical security patches. The support of the EPA and authorized non-EPA wireless users consists of configuring the users' laptops to access the Region 5 wireless network and ensuring that the users' laptops have the current anti virus software version and pattern files prior to connecting to the wireless network. The contractor shall notify via email the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending. 5.4.1 The contractors shall configure the designated training wireless laptops to be compliant with the EPA FDCC standard configuration. These wireless laptops will have the same image as the wired workstations that are currently used in the two designated Regional Training rooms. The contractors shall install and configure applications on these laptops for training sessions when required and/or as requested by the designated TM. 5.4.2 The contractor shall install/upgrade, configure, and maintain the wireless client software for the Region 5 wireless users when required. The contractor shall also provide technical assistance and support to the Region 5 wireless users when required. The contractor shall ensure that designated training laptops can access the wireless network prior to the scheduled training session, and shall provide users with assistance during training when needed. 5.4.3 The contractor shall install/upgrade and configure new and existing wireless Access Points (AP), AP Gateways (Hotspot devices), APs and Gateways' firmware, software, and Cisco access server software when required. The installation and configuration of the wireless devices shall be in accordance with EPA wireless network policy. In addition, the contractor shall follow security best practices on the wireless equipment to ensure the wireless network is secured properly. 5.4.4 The contractor shall provide fixes/solutions for malfunctioning wireless devices or software errors in a timely manner. The expected time to resolve errors/problems is four hours. However, depending on the complexity of the problem(s), extra time for resolution will be approved by the EPA Task manager (TM), if she/he deems it necessary. The contractor shall troubleshoot and provide fixes/solutions for the wireless users to ensure successful connections to the wireless network and/or wired resources as required. 5.4.5 The contractor shall monitor the client connectivity and security of the WLAN daily, e.g. reviewing the APs', AP Gateways' and Access server's logs to ensure that the wireless network security will not be compromised. In addition, the contractor shall monitor for rogue Access Points or wireless devices set up by unauthorized users. Appropriate actions shall be performed immediately if security breaches are detected. All detected security breaches and rogue APs shall be immediately reported to the Region 5 ISO, and/or the designated EPA TM, and shall be documented within one hour. 5.5 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below.
20

5.5.1 The contractor shall comply with the mandates, guidelines, and documents developed for Federal, Agency and Regional standards and procedures. 5.5.2 The contractor may not make changes to the Regional infrastructure without EPA Agency or Regional approval. 5.5.3 The contractor shall work with other contractor's assigned joint responsibility for the monitoring, maintenance, and management of Agency and/or Regional equipment and its application and associated software as stipulated in a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that defines the responsibilities of the joint contractor relationship.

6.0 TASK 3: HELP DESK/HOTLINE DESKTOP/COMPUTER SUPPORT 6.1 Hotline/Help Desk: The contractor shall operate and maintain the Hotline/Help Desk. 6.1.1 The Help Desk shall serve EPA Region 5 personnel as the initial point of contact for troubleshooting hardware, software, PC, and printer problems. The Help Desk shall provide phone and in-person support to users in the areas of e-mail, directories, standard Windows desktop applications, and applications developed under this contract or other contracts, as well as commercial off-the-shelf and EPA National applications. 6.1.1.1 The contractor shall immediately assign the highest priority to problems affecting multiple users (loss of a server, router, etc.) as pre-determined by the EPA Project Officer and internal policies. 6.1.1.2 The contractor shall resolve problems reported by users concerning suspected malfunctions or operating difficulties with hardware, software (both operating system and application), network, and related equipment/systems. 6.1.1.3 The contractor shall update and maintain set written procedures for Help Desk operations. The due date for the procedures is thirty days after award of contract. 6.1.1.4 The contractor shall analyze continuing problem areas in conjunction with its overall Quality Control procedures to pinpoint weaknesses in systems, hardware, procedures, or instructions. 6.1.1.5 The contractor shall escalate those problems that cannot be resolved remotely to the appropriate personnel, or other designated organizations including the RTP Help Desk for resolution. The contact information for the RTP Help Desk will be provided upon contract award. 6.1.1.6 The contractor shall monitor and follow-up on all problems through resolution and closure to ensure that timely, corrective action(s) have been taken.

21

6.1.2 The Help Desk shall be responsible for recording, referring, and tracking reported problems in the HEAT Ticket-Tracking System. The contractor shall require all technicians to log and update all incidents into the HEAT Ticket-Tracking system. This will enable the contractor to provide detailed reports when requested of problems occurring in any office, predict and track trends, and identify appropriate actions required in order to reduce these occurrences in the future. 6.1.3 The Help Desk support functions shall evaluate hardware, firmware, peripherals, printers, software packages, etc., for use by staff and provide recommendations for accomplishing the desired organization objectives, troubleshoot, and resolve problems encountered using microcomputer hardware including peripherals, software and printers. The Contractor shall analyze new applications and review implementation plans to ensure system resources are available to support these applications both long and short term. 6.1.4 The contractor shall support operations all types of computer hardware and software systems at EPA Region 5 locations (see Appendix B). The contractor shall perform the following: 6.1.4.1 Installation of personal computers. The EPA TM or TPOC in charge will provide the contractor with the total amount of PC's to install and the installation schedule, as required. 6.1.4.2 Perform upgrades to Regional desktop operating systems network and operating systems and shared applications 6.1.4.3 The contractor shall be responsible for employee relocations, moving of PCs, peripherals and printers, the installation and de-installation of new user microcomputer equipment, as well as provide bar code and serial numbers for input into the inventory database. 6.1.4.4 The Contractor shall implement a maintenance program for computers, both preventative and remedial, focused on minimizing downtime and achieving efficient operations that includes periodic testing and inspections. 6.1.4.5 The contractor shall provide regular maintenance of GIS plotters, GIS related hardware devices, and printing devices. 6.1.5 The Contractor shall update, and maintain documentation for desk top hardware, software, printers, and peripheral equipment. This documentation will include user manuals, programmer maintenance manuals, system hardware and software documentation, and instructions for customers to troubleshoot PC and peripheral equipment problems, as well as investigating and demonstrating new hardware/software capabilities as requested by the EPA LAN TM. 6.1.6 The Contractor shall provide assistance in maintaining inventory control and location records of EPA computer equipment/software and disposal of property as required.

22

6.1.7 The contractor shall identify and maintain a current, accurate inventory of all consumable automation supplies, including current inventory, quantity on order and date expected, total inventory used during the period, and the projected date when on-hand supplies will be exhausted. The contractor shall request replacement of these supplies in a timely manner. 6.1.8 The Contractor shall provide data copying and distribution services to the Region, by preparing data tapes, CD's, DVD's, thumb USB drives, etc, as required by the user community. 6.1.9 The Contractor shall meet as needed with the responsible EPA TM, to provide progress and status on current requirements. In addition, the Contractor shall provide in the weekly summary report as identified in Section 16 of the PWS, a summary of the information requested, accomplishments, problems identified, and responses/resolutions to these problems. 6.1.10 The Contractor shall provide statistics on hardware/software/system problems, security incidents, maintenance service calls, and user base as requested. Section 16 6.1.11 The Contractor shall utilize the EPA approved Customer Service Survey (Appendix E) as the vehicle to obtain feedback and ensure continued satisfaction. The contractor shall send a survey form to 100% of closed service request tickets. All survey responses shall be sent to the EPA Project Officer. All survey responses less than Good will be investigated and reported to the EPA Project Officer. The contractor shall report the survey results as performance statistics in the Quarterly and Annual reports. 6.1.12 The Contractor will perform question and answers sessions and brief demonstrations for EPA software rollouts as requested by the EPA Desktop Team. 6.2 Desktop Image Support: The contractor shall be responsible for the development, maintenance and upgrade of all Region 5 desktop operating system images. 6.2.1 The contractor shall ensure that all regional Windows XP/7 or higher workstations are configured in accordance with the U.S. EPA Standard Configuration Documentation and the latest Microsoft Client. 6.2.2 The contractor shall develop, update, and maintain FDCC and/or USGCB standard configuration documentation for all desktop images as laid out in the FDCC and/or USGCB white papers and requested by the IMB TM. 6.2.3 The contractor shall provide Windows XP/7 or higher desktop end user support. The contractor shall ensure that desktops operate under the latest OS and security patches as distributed by the U.S. EPA Computer Security Incident Response Capability (CSIRC). 6.2.4 The contractor shall perform Windows XP/7 or higher desktop system administration in line with FDCC and/or USGCB standards. The contractor shall troubleshoot hardware and software, correct problems, contact vendors for solutions as needed, and rebuild systems, if required, in a timely manner.

23

6.2.5 The contractor shall not change/modify any component of the Windows XP/7 or higher systems without prior approval of the IMB TM. This includes both hardware and software. 6.3 Maintaining the Personal Computers in Region 5's 12th Floor Computer Training Rooms, Self Learning Information Center (SLIC) and Conference Center 6.3.1 The contractor shall maintain the training computers in the two computer training rooms, the SLIC, and Conference Center. 6.3.2 The contractor shall be responsible for re-imaging the computers in this area every 36 months or as needed. Re-imaging will be required when major Regional software or hardware upgrades take place. EPA IMB staff responsible for reviewing the images the Contractor develops prior to any new PC deployment and/or Upgrades. 6.3.3 The contractor shall verify that all automatic upgrades and installations made to the training computer's desktop works correctly before the next scheduled class. The conference or SLIC computers require contractor review on an "as needed" basis. The contractor shall correct or uninstall the automatic installations before the next scheduled class. 6.3.4 The contractor shall receive room requests, software, and any other materials for nonstandard class software installations from the Work Force Development Team through a HEAT ticket at least two weeks before the scheduled class. The Work Force Development Team will assign a point of contact for the contractor to initiate dialogue with the requestor and make arrangements to receive the software in advance of the requested training date. 6.3.5 The Contractor shall contact the Workforce Development Team and accept the work request or explain why it is being rejected. The Workforce Development Team will be responsible for class notifications and maintaining the schedules. The contractor shall not provide licensed software or search for licenses required for training classes. 6.3.6 All nonstandard software that will be installed for a class shall be registered in the R5SITS Information Management Branch Regional Software Database before contractor installation. IMB will be responsible for processing the registration paperwork. 6.3.7 The contractor shall review and install only registered software in the Training rooms. A report of all review results shall be forwarded to the R5SITS file for future use on software settings made during installation or problems occurred. Any nonstandard licensed software, not bought specifically for these rooms, shall be uninstalled within five business days after the last class. 6.4 Regional Printer/Multi-Function Devices Support & Maintenance: The contractor shall provide primary support to install, maintain, and provide preventative maintenance for all Regional printers (networked and stand-alone) not provided by a Managed Service Contract and not covered by a manufacturer warranty or maintenance agreement. The contractor shall provide tier 1 support to maintain all Regional Multi-Function Devices (MFD) provided by a Managed Service Contract, as well as preventative maintenance for these devices. 6.4.1 Request for Printer Services Parts and Supplies.
24

6.4.1.1 The contractor shall submit, by electronic mail, all requests for printer repair service to the appointed Technical Point of Contact (TPOC). 6.4.1.2 The contractor shall include the following information in their written request: HEAT Ticket Number, Make/model of the printer, location of equipment, serial number, detailed description of problem with printer(s), and the steps taken to resolve the problem and a justification of why additional services are required. 6.4.1.3 The contractor shall also specify printer repair in the HEAT ticket options.

6.4.1.4 The contractor shall identify supplies that the contractor will need to order during the period of performance. The rate of depletion will determine the quantity ordered and the stock reorder point. The contractor will notify the TPOC when supplies need to be reordered. 6.4.2 Printer Maintenance:

6.4.2.1 The contractor shall complete quarterly preventative maintenance on all Regional printers. The contractor shall follow maintenance programs prescribed by the manufacturer. The contractor shall include status of the preventative maintenance checks in the quarterly reports as identified in Section 16 of the PWS. 6.4.3 Managed Service Multi­Function Device Support:

6.4.3.1 The contractor shall provide support and preventative maintenance on all Managed Service Multi-Function Devices (MFD). These devices provide the Region with the ability to copy, print, scan and fax. 6.4.3.2 During any implementation period, the contractor shall receive on-site support, assistance, and mentoring from the Managed Service provider. After the transition period, the contractor shall be responsible for providing all tier 1 break-fix support to the Region. A break-fix is the process of providing technical/operational support (repair, upgrade, installation) to the multi-functional devices. This will ensure the MFDs are functioning correctly and are available for service. 6.4.3.3 The contractor shall submit, by electronic mail, all requests for MFD repair service, to the EPA staff assigned. The contractor shall include the following information in their written request: HEAT Ticket Number, Make/model of the printer, location of equipment, serial number, detailed description of problem with device, and the steps taken to resolve the problem and a justification of why additional services are required. 6.4.3.4 The contractor shall work with the MFD Managed Service provider, and the EPA staff assigned, to resolve all technical problems with the MFD. 6.4.3.5 The contractor shall provide the EPA staff identified in Section 16 with a monthly MFD usage report detailing the page imprint count for all multi-function devices by the 20th of each month.
25

6.4.3.6 The contractor shall complete quarterly preventative maintenance on all Managed Service MFD equipment. The contractor shall follow maintenance programs prescribed by the manufacturer. The contractor shall include status of the preventative maintenance checks in the quarterly reports as identified in Section 16 of the PWS. 6.4.3.7 The contractor shall identify supplies/consumables that the contractor will need during the period of performance. Items will be stored in a closet designated by the EPA staff assigned. 6.5 STREEM Server Administration: The contractor shall be responsible for responding to the STREEM server error messages sent through email to the contractor from the STREEM server. The contractor will contact STREEM technical support to coordinate a remote session to resolve any issues. All server maintenance shall be performed by the STREEM technical support contractor with the exception of Administrator password changes. 6.6 Electronic Information Technology (EIT) Remote Support for Users with Disabilities. The contractor shall provide all labor, supervision, tools, equipment, and transportation necessary to perform EIT services and support as described below: 6.6.1 For all remote site visits the contractor will receive work requests prepared by the EPA Project Officer stating, but not limited, to the type of services expected to be provide onsite. The work request will also specify the name, address, and telephone number of the Regional employee who needs the services. 6.6.2 The contractor will be expected to unpack, setup and install Agency electronic information technology (EIT) equipment at the home of the employee identified on the work request. The contractor shall ensure that the equipment operates according to manufacturer and Agency specifications. The contractor shall retain the packaging for re-use when returning the equipment to the Agency. 6.6.3 The contractor shall connect the EIT to the employee's Internet Service Provider (ISP) at their residence. The contractor shall ensure that the Internet service is operating at the data transfer speed specified by the ISP. This task may include establishing an Internet connection through a wireless router provided by the ISP or Regional employee. 6.6.4 The contractor shall perform basic troubleshooting and maintenance support to identify the cause of EIT related problems with the Agency Equipment. If the identified problem is fixable with simple software reinstallations or updates, the contractor shall perform the necessary task(s). If the contractor finds the problem constitutes a major hardware or software malfunction, the contractor will make arrangements with the EPA Project Officer for shipping the item back to the primary location. The contractor may also elect to bring the item back to primary location. 6.6.5 When required, the contractor shall ship all boxes containing the Governmentfurnished EIT to the EPA Project Officer at U.S. EPA Region 5, Attn: ___________, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Mail Code: _____, Chicago, Illinois 60604-3590. The EPA Project Officer will provide the Agency's Fed Ex account number to the contractor for these shipments.

26

6.6.6 The contractor shall perform all duty and support as described in section 5.4 when disabled users call for assistance remotely. Problems not easily resolved by 3-HELP should be addressed by the manager to the Project Officer for a possible site visit. 6.6.7 Since all equipment at these remote sites are owned by EPA they are expected to be serviced as any other EPA EIT hardware and software owned by EPA 6.6.8 The contractor will be required to list all services provided to the Regional employee and list of parts that were installed and any follow-up required on the Work Request Completion Form. 6.7 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below. 6.7.1 Upon completion of any piloting testing for IT/Desktop tasks, the contractor must provide the Task Manager with a status report of the results. 6.7.2 The contractor shall develop, update, and maintain FDCC and/or USGCB standard configuration documentation for all desktop images as laid out in the FDCC and/or USGCB white papers and requested by a TM. 6.7.3 The contractor shall require all technicians to log and update all incidents into the HEAT Ticket-Tracking system. 6.7.4 The contractor will provide remote RA visits through work requests which will require a trip report upon its closing 7.0 TASK 4: DATABASE ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT 7.1 The contractor shall provide analysis, troubleshooting, installation, operations, maintenance, and documentation for the Region 5 Oracle RDBMS, LOTUS NOTES, Microsoft Sequel Server (SQL) and Geographic Information System (GIS) databases to the responsible EPA TM(s). The contractor shall also provide technical support and assistance necessary to maintain the day-today operations of the current Laboratory Information Management System, Element Data System from Promium (LIMS). For operational reason the documentation must include server configurations, operations procedures, standards, and diagrams of all supported systems to have available when needed. The contractor shall provide Region 5 users with remote connectivity to the Region's Network. The contractor shall notify the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending, via e-mail. 7.1.1 The contractor shall install, configure and maintain Region 5 databases, which will be used by EPA as the database engines for application data. The EPA LAN administrator will work with the contractor to provide oversight for trouble-shooting any instance of problems with software. 7.1.2 The contractor shall provide maximum database availability and recoverability.

27

7.1.2.1 The contractor shall maintain and update the written procedure for Backup and Recovery of the Oracle and Lotus Notes and SQL data. The procedure will be provided to the contractor upon contract award. 7.1.2.2 The contractor shall perform daily, incremental, and weekly full exports of the Oracle databases in addition to the Oracle online backups, and operating system's cold backups to be reported in the Regional backup report. 7.1.2.3 The contractor shall verify the integrity of the regularly scheduled backups of the Oracle, Lotus Notes and SQL data. 7.1.3 The contractor shall maintain Oracle user accounts and permissions, schema, logical database structure, and will adhere to all Oracle RDBMS security policy procedures. (See Section 11.0, Standards and References). 7.1.4 The contractor shall maintain and troubleshoot the Oracle RDBMS, Lotus Notes, and SQL databases. The Contractor shall perform weekly updates using SQL server manager studio to clean up history, backup data, re-organize index and ensure integrity of data. The contractor shall provide tuning of the databases for optimal performance. 7.1.4.1 The contractor shall independently resolve problems and report those findings to the TM(s) identified in Section 17 of the PWS within an eight hour time frame. 7.1.4.2 The contractor shall provide the TM(s) identified in Section 16 of the PWS with reports of Oracle, Lotus Notes and SQL server databases' performance. The monthly report is due, at the end of the first full work week of the following month. The contractor shall also provide reports on an as needed basis. 7.1.4.3 The contractor shall provide support of remote access for users which entails the following, but is not limited to: Portal based access to the primary electronic mail (Email) system, complete installation and configuration of software that enables authorized access to email and any other mail or non-mail database on the EPA Network, and a complete installation and configuration of software to access applications/systems and files on the EPA Network. 7.2 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below. 7.2.1 The contractor shall provide installation, maintenance and documentation for the Region 5 Oracle and SQL databases to the responsible EPA TM(s). 7.2.2 The contractor shall ensure optimal database availability and recoverability.

7.2.3 The contractor shall independently resolve problems and report those findings via electronic communication to the EPA TM within an eight hour time frame. 7.2.4 The contractor shall monitor and maintain all logs relevant to the system, applications and security of EPA's IT equipment that the Oracle and SQL databases reside on.
28

7.2.5 The contractor shall ensure daily that all Oracle and SQL databases have sufficient access to Windows servers' storage, memory, network bandwidth and its processors. 7.3 GIS, Scientific and Division-Specific Applications Support: The contractor shall provide hardware and software support to the GIS community. The contractor shall notify via email the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending. 7.3.1 The contractor shall install and maintain GIS, GIS related, scientific, divisionspecific, web, and Oracle related applications on the Microsoft Windows servers. 7.3.2 The contractor shall install, configure, and maintain GIS, GIS related, scientific, and division-specific, web, and Oracle related applications on Microsoft Windows XP or higher. 7.3.3 The contractor shall troubleshoot GIS, GIS related, scientific, division-specific, web, and Oracle applications and resolve all related problems. 7.3.3.1 The contractor shall troubleshoot interoperability issues with other Region 5 standard applications and resolve all related problems. 7.3.3.2 The contractor shall troubleshoot GIS hardware devices and resolve all problems. If resolution is in excess of one (1) hour, the contractor shall immediately notify the EPA TM. 7.3.4 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below.

7.3.4.1 The contractor shall provide installation, maintenance and documentation for the Region 5 GIS servers, desktop and plotters configuration to the responsible EPA TM(s). 7.3.4.2 The contractor shall ensure optimal GIS database availability and recoverability.

7.3.4.3 The contractor shall independently resolve problems and report those finding via electronic communication to the EPA TM within an eight hour time frame. 7.3.4.4 The contractor shall monitor and maintain all logs relevant to the system, applications and security of EPAs IT equipment that relates to GIS. 7.3.4.5 The contractor shall ensure daily that all GIS databases have sufficient access to Windows servers, storage, memory, network bandwidth and servers' processors. 7.3.4.6 The contractor shall troubleshoot GIS hardware devices and resolve all problems. If resolution is in excess of one (1) hour, the contractor shall immediately notify the EPA TM

29

7.4 LIMS Support and Maintenance: The contractor shall check the Promium web site on a weekly basis for upgrades, new versions, and updates to the LIMS. The contractor will load these changes to the software in the correct directories on the server. The contractor will verify that any updates to the desktop software as a result of these changes are correctly migrated to the user's computers. 7.4.1 The contractor shall provide Oracle database administration and maintenance to provide and maintain entity relationships, security restrictions, optimal performance and cost effective resource utilization. The contractor assigned shall be a qualified Oracle database administrator. 7.4.2 The contractor shall provide daily and weekly full backups of the LIMS database and report the success of these backups in the Regional Backup report as indicated in Section 16 of the PWS. 7.4.3 The contractor shall test, verify, and document backup procedures regularly.

7.4.4 For performance concerns the contractor is expected to log work performed, problems or errors detected or encountered during normal system operation of LIMS, and system usage and failure reports. 7.4.5 Documentation for archive and restoration procedures shall be created and provided to the CRL as identified in Section 16 of the PWS. 7.4.6 The contractor shall maintain detailed documentation of user's manual, system manual, and programmer's guide of all procedures, system features, applications and databases maintained, modified, or otherwise installed for this task. Some of these may be manuals from Promium, the LIMS vendor. 7.4.7 The contractor shall maintain electronic connections between the LIMS servers and all electronic or computer output of any analytical instruments. 7.4.8 The contractor shall support analytical instrument dedicated computers with analytical software which is not agency standard. The support will include ensuring that agency standard software, configuration and practices do not interfere with the operation of the analytical software. Agency software will be removed if it interferes with the primary analytical use of an instrument computer. The contractor will coordinate problem solving of software and hardware problems with the instrument vendor when necessary. The contractor will assist with installation of instrument computers and software, as requested. 7.4.9 The contractor shall maintain a library of LIMS user(s) and programmer documentation. This library includes: 7.4.9.1 A log of work performed, problems or errors detected or encountered during normal system operation of LIMS, and logs of system usage and failure reports. 7.4.9.2 System documentation for archive and restoration procedures.

30

7.4.9.3 The contractor shall provide Laboratory Information Management System Printable Output Support for the CRL. 7.4.9.4 Output from CRL LIMS is printed using forms created in Crystal Reports and presented in Abode Acrobat format (PDF). The current templates resides on the CRL Server, and will be made available to the Contractor as required. 7.4.9.5 The contractor shall provide the following LIMS printable output support including, but not limited to the following: 7.4.9.5.1 Correction of errors existing in the current data reports, including sorting errors in analyzed lists. 7.4.9.5.2 Creation of new bench sheets, reports and other printable output as analyses are added to the CRL capabilities. 7.4.9.5.3 7.4.9.5.4 Addition of statements to the cover pages of all data reports. Creation or modification of various label templates.

7.4.9.5.5 Addition or removal of information (fields) from vendor supplied or contractor modified templates. 8.0 TASK 5: MICROSOFT WINDOWS SERVERS, SAN, VIRTUAL INFRASTRUCTURE ADMINISTRATION 8.1 Microsoft Windows Servers and Virtual Infrastructure Administration Support 8.1.1 The contractor shall perform Microsoft server system administration. The contractor shall also perform Virtual server system administration. The contractor shall notify the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending, via e-mail. 8.1.2 The contractor shall perform file server consolidation, converting file server assignments from Division-specific to Task performance and assisting with migrating physical servers to virtual servers. 8.1.3 The contractor will be required to perform setup/prepare, configuration, installation, operation, maintaining optimization for peak performance, test and repair/resolve LAN and web servers (Virtual, Microsoft, and Linux). 8.1.4 The contractor shall support all software residing on the servers, associated equipment, and their components including network client software and issues resulting from desktop client updates through AD, SMS, Bigfix, etc.

31

8.1.5 The contractor shall support LAN printer management, as well as coordinate with the EPA TM for vendor installation and adjustments to this equipment and software. This includes checking support sites for all installed software on regional servers for the latest revision and security patches (virus, Virtual, Microsoft Windows, Notes, Linux, Tomcat, etc.), downloading updates and testing prior to implementation on active LAN, implementing and maintaining current system software, maintaining a high-level of system reliability, availability, and performance. 8.1.6 The contractor shall recommend and implement enhancements to prevent performance problems, including maintaining existing and planned LAN network interface cards, LAN protocols, LAN and web server software and hardware systems, and LAN topologies and operating systems. 8.1.7 The contractor shall test and network interfaces that transparently integrate system applications daily or more frequently if necessary. 8.1.8 The contractor shall troubleshoot hardware and software, correct problems, contact vendors for solutions as needed, and rebuild Microsoft Windows server and Virtual Server systems. The contractor shall follow up with vendors to track hardware/software items purchased and/or sent to vendors for repairs to ensure that these requirements are resolved by the vendor as agreed. The contractor shall take the appropriate action in accordance with the approved EPA Work Requests. 8.1.9 The contractor shall ensure that the Microsoft Windows servers and Virtual Server systems operate under the latest EPA approved OS and security patches, and firmware versions. 8.1.10 The contractor shall install new hardware and software in accordance with the EPA policy as required in the EPA/LANSYS white paper. (See Section 11.0, Standards and References) 8.1.10.1 The contractor shall label all Microsoft Windows servers, Virtual Server systems and associated cables. 8.1.10.2 The contractor shall perform regularly scheduled systems maintenance on the Microsoft Windows servers and Virtual Server systems. 8.1.11 The contractor shall perform daily operational system administration, i.e. maintaining user accounts, passwords, and permissions. 8.1.12 The contractor shall ensure that all administration tasks will adhere to the EPA security policy, and standard operating procedures. (See Section 11.0, Standards and References). 8.1.13 The contractor shall install and maintain anti-virus software, other administration related tools, and all other approved software packages, i.e. Security related software, on all the Microsoft Windows servers and Virtual Server systems, as required, or requested.

32

8.1.14 The contractor shall monitor and optimize the performance of all Microsoft Windows servers and Virtual Server systems. The contractor shall be required to provide when needed a report of the servers' performances. These reports will be requested through a work request from the TM responsible for these servers. 8.1.15 The contractor shall develop, update, and maintain all Region 5 Microsoft Windows servers' and Virtual Server system's standard configuration documentation and present to EPA staff as indicated under Section 16 of the PWS. 8.1.16 The contractor shall log and enter into a journal all changes, upgrades, and modifications made to the Microsoft Windows servers and Virtual Server systems. 8.1.17 The contractor shall verbally notify the EPA TM or APO or PO within thirty (30) minutes, in the event of a server's inaccessibility, and take immediate corrective action to bring the server and its services back online. 8.1.18 The contractor shall provide support and maintain the Region 5 Microsoft Active Directory (AD) Domain Controller and its virtual server systems. The contractor shall also work with the EPA Headquarters' server administrators to troubleshoot and resolve any problems. 8.2 SAN and NAS Systems Administration Support: The contractor shall perform SAN systems administration and install and maintain SAN hardware and software on various network operating system platforms. 8.2.1 The contractor shall troubleshoot SAN and NAS hardware and software, and correct problems in a timely manner. 8.2.2 The contractor shall perform regular SAN and NAS maintenance and upgrade the SAN's firmware as required or requested. 8.2.3 The contractor shall monitor and optimize the SAN and NAS performance. The contractor shall provide reports of SAN performance as required. 8.2.4 The contractor shall maintain and update schematics and technical diagrams to document the Regional SAN and NAS systems. The contractor shall provide an updated report to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS 30 days after award and when the information is changed. 8.2.5 The contractor shall update and maintain an electronic database of all changes, upgrades, and modifications made to the SAN and NAS systems. Access to the database is required for review by the TM. The contractor shall also provide documentation for all changes, upgrades, and modifications made to the SAN and NAS systems in hard copy and/or electronic format as requested by the TM, or as specified in the EPA Work Request. The contractor shall provide updated report(s) to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS within 30 calendar days after contract award, within 5 business days after the end of the month, and/or when requested by the EPA TM.

33

8.3 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below. The contractor shall obtain prior approval from the designated TM before implement any changes to the servers. 8.3.1 The contractor shall provide installation, maintenance and documentation for the Region 5 Windows and Linux Servers, Virtual infrastructure, and Storage Area Networks to the responsible EPA TM(s). 8.3.2 The contractor shall ensure optimal network availability and reliable connectivity to EPA ­ Region 5 storage devices, servers and data. 8.3.3 The contractor shall independently resolve problems and report those findings via electronic communication to the EPA TM within an eight hour time frame. 8.3.4 The contractor shall monitor and maintain all logs relevant to the system, applications and security of EPA's IT equipment that relates to the Ethernet network. 9.0 TASK 6: COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND NETWORK SECURITY: 9.1 The contractor shall notify via email the Project Officer of any meetings with the TM(s) before attending. The Contractor shall provide support for the following requirements in accordance with the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002, EPA Information Resources Management (IRM) Policy Manual, Standard Configuration Document manual, and LAN Operating Procedures Manual and Regional Security policies, i.e., Security Plans, and ISO directives. 9.2 The contractor shall provide operational and analytical support related to security for personal computers, file servers, and LAN information assets. This includes detection of malicious programs (for example, viruses, worms, Trojan Horses, etc.), as well as unauthorized software, and provide methodology to counter, neutralize, eliminate and/or control them. It also includes implementing and maintaining security controls and auditing user profiles in accordance with documents concerning EPA Information Security Guidance and Standards listed in Section 11 of the PWS, and making recommendations and reporting discrepancies to the EPA Information Security Officer and the EPA Security Technical Point of Contact. 9.3 The contractor shall conduct data gathering, as required, that relates to computer and LAN/WAN security, using Agency Standard Applications, i.e., Bindview, BigFix, Belarc and any additional applications that the Agency will utilize as a standard. 9.4 The contractor shall install/uninstall, operate, configure, update, review, test and maintain security monitoring software, related software and related hardware that the Agency utilizes to gather data for the purpose of fulfilling its requirement(s) for information security. 9.5 The contractor shall review and analyze server logs that cover applications, systems, and security; and other IT assets that logs user and connection traffic as required by the Agency and provide documentation and reports based on the analysis. The contractor shall provide a report to the EPA staff identified in Section 16 of the PWS.

34

9.6 The contractor shall operate, update, and maintain security related hardware, i.e. dedicated security servers, firewall, intrusion detection/prevention system, and other hardware and peripherals, which the Agency utilizes for fulfilling its data gathering and analysis requirement(s). 9.7 The contractor shall participate in Regional Security related training projects, i.e., classroom presentations, reading material preparation, distribution of brochures, and WEB based training preparation and support. 9.8 The contractor shall review, analyze, comment, and report on Agency security related documentation, procedures, and guidance documents, i.e. Security Plans, Government Information Security Reports, Assessment Self Evaluation and Remediation Tool (ASSERT), and other information security related documents. 9.9 The contractor shall participate in meetings, teleconferences, and seminars related to computer security as required. Meetings and seminars may be held in other cities. Teleconferences are held monthly. All travel both local and in other areas shall be approved by the Project Officer.

9.10 The contractor shall support the U.S. EPA Agency Patch Management Application, BigFix. The contractor shall be able to test and deploy patches to the Region, and perform software audits using BigFix, in a time frame defined by the Agency and document deployments, create reports, troubleshoot problems, and periodically update the BigFix database. 9.11 The contractor shall provide network security monitoring using EPA security standards and create reports and analysis; all discrepancies must be reported to the EPA Information Security Officer and EPA Security Network Task Manager immediately. The contractor shall implement network security controls in accordance with EPA Information Security Guidance identified in Section 11 of the PWS, and make recommendations to improve the network security posture. 9.12 The contractor shall perform security reviews to a Agency hardware, software, and other related IT assets and identify upgrades on a daily basis to identify potential security problems. 9.13 The contractor shall review all WAN systems and security logs daily, notify the authorized TM, and take immediate corrective action on all discrepancies as noted by the authorized TM. 9.14 Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed below. 9.14.1 The contractor shall notify and obtain approval from the TM or Security Network Task Manager via email, or verbally when performing security orientated tasks. 9.14.2 Region 5 EPA must conform to IT Security standards, policies, and procedures determined by U.S. EPA Chief Information Officer. 9.14.3 Contractor shall only perform the specific security related task assigned. Any deviations must be approved by the Security Network Task Manager
35

10.0 TASK 7: GREAT LAKES NATIONAL PROGRAM OFFICE (GLNPO) TECHNICAL COMPUTER SUPPORT 10.1 Technical Infrastructure Overview: This requirement is for the support for three Local Area Networks (LANs) which are maintained by the USEPA's Great Lakes National Program (GLNPO) office. It includes the administration and security of the servers, the installation and support of the software and hardware being used on the networks, and user support for account holders on the networks. These networks are jointly supported by EPA and contractor personnel, with contractors having the primary responsibility for the administration and technical support of the networks. 10.1.1 GLNPO AA Domain: GLNPO's employees have access to the USEPA Region 5 network from their desktop PCs. That regional network includes a small subset of GLNPO owned and administered servers, referred to in this PWS as the GLNPO AA Domain (internal to EPA) network. Those GLNPO servers are housed in a rack in the Great Lakes Data Center (server room) and are administered, maintained and accessed by GLNPO personnel and contractors. Approximately 90 desktop and notebook PCs are currently in use by GLNPO employees who log into the EPA Region 5 network. Support for the IT equipment which connects to the Region 5 network is covered under a different task in this contract, unless the problems are directly associated with services being hosted on the GLNPO AA Domain portion of the network. 10.1.1.1 The GLNPO AA Domain (internal to EPA) LAN currently consists of approximately 10 physical servers currently running a Windows 2008 NOS. These servers provide file storage for the office, host the Great Lakes environmental data (GLENDA) Oracle database, a few office printers, and a few specialty software applications which are not available from the EPA Region 5's regular network. 10.1.2 GLNPO External 5LAKES Network: The GLNPO maintains an external network which exists outside of EPA's regular network infrastructure, referred to in this PWS as the GLNPO External 5LAKES network. The external network servers are directly accessible to some GLNPO employees via connection though dedicated ports in their cubicles, and accessible to all GLNPO employees and non-GLNPO account holders outside of EPA via a secure VPN over the internet. 10.1.2.1 The GLNPO External 5LAKES network currently consists of approximately 11 physical servers running a Windows 2008 NOS, an additional 5 servers running VMware's VSphere virtualizing software over a Redhat Linux NOS, plus a SAN and backup tape drives. The GLNPO External 5LAKES network hosts SharePoint web pages, electronic meeting support and streaming video services for GLNPO employees and for approximately 500 active EPA and non-EPA account holders. 10.1.2.2 The GLNPO External 5LAKES network is unique within EPA in that it exists outside of EPA's normal networks. Support includes the administration of the Juniper VPN device and CheckPoint firewall, MS Exchange server, Bindview and Tenable Nessus or other network analysis tools, Symantec antivirus and Vbrick streaming video. The GLNPO external networks also host GLNPO's SharePoint Web services, which are a critical resource which supports the exchange of data with GLNPO's non-EPA cooperators.
36

10.1.3 RV Lake Guardian Network: The GLNPO maintains a 180 foot research vessel which spends 8 months of the year on environmental monitoring cruises throughout the Great Lakes, and which is docked during the winter in Milwaukee Wisconsin. The network on the Lake Guardian is connected to the internet via satellite link. The network is used by the scientists on the ship, and for the storage and analysis of environmental data obtained during monitoring cruises. Support for the Lake Guardian network is outside of the scope of this requirement. 10.1.4 The GLNPO Data Center (Server Room): The GLNPO currently maintains its own server room, called the Great Lakes Data Center, on the 17th floor of the Metcalf building (in room R1722). This room houses the GLNPO AA domain and External 5LAKES network server racks, along with approximately a dozen PCs which connect to the external network. The contractor will have unrestricted access to the GLNPO server room during normal work hours to support the administration of the servers and equipment in the room. 10.1.5 The Great Lakes Communications Center (Audio-visual Conference Room): A GLNPO video conference room is also located on the 17th floor of the Metcalf building (room R1723). This room contains several PCs which are attached to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network, along with a Tandberg remote conferencing unit and a printer. The room is primarily used to host electronic meetings with cooperators located outside of EPA. 10.1.6 The Great Lakes Graphics Room: This small room is located on the same floor as the GLNPO Data Center and Communications Center and main office. The room usually contains three general access PCs attached to each of the GLNPO networks, two printers, two scanners and a CD copier. Approximately 15 additional PCs, four color printers and a color plotter which connect to the GLNPO External network are also in use throughout the main office 10.2 General Requirements of the Task: Each of the three GLNPO networks has a unique subset of administrative support requirements, depending on the location and use of the network. Those network-specific requirements are described in more detail in later sections. The following general support requirements apply to the government owned IT equipment which connect to any of the GLNPO networks, to the software being used in the computers and devices which connect to any of the GLNPO networks, and to the account holders on the GLNPO networks who require technical assistance. 10.3 IT Hardware, Software and User Support for the GLNPO Networks: The contractor shall not change or modify any software or hardware component of the GLNPO networks or attached peripherals without prior approval from the GLNPO TM, unless the changes are required as part of the ongoing security, administration and maintenance work described within this Task description.

37

10.3.1 GLNPO IT Hardware Support: The Contractor shall maintain the government owned LAN servers, desktop and notebook PCs, printers and other peripheral devices which attach to or are hosted on the GLNPO networks. Most of the equipment being supported is physically located in either the GLNPO Communications Center (server room), in the GLNPO Graphics room, or in cubicles in the GLNPO main office. This requirement includes the unboxing, setup, configuration, physical transfer and movement, installation and testing of new or current servers, PCs and other IT peripherals such as monitors, printers and scanners. This includes a requirement to properly dispose of boxes and packing materials when new equipment is installed. It also includes the reconfiguration, trouble shooting, replacement and upgrade of hardware components within or connected to these items. 10.3.1.1.1 Support for the PCs and IT Devices in the GLNPO Office which Connect to the GLNPO AA Domain and External 5LAKES Network: About a dozen PCs and printers in the GLNPO main office login directly to the GLNPO External network. Support for the government equipment which attaches to the GLNPO AA Domain and External LANs is the focus of the following requirement. The PCs which connect to the GLNPO AA Domain also receive contractor support under other tasks in this contract. The PCs and devices which connect to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network are solely supported under the requirements of this task. 10.3.1.1.2 Notebook PC Support: Approximately 15 to 20 notebook PCs configured to connect to the GLNPO external network are maintained in the office for employee to use while on travel. These loan pool notebook PCs do not connect to EPA's regular network and must be manually updated by the contractor periodically throughout the year. Each of these notebook PCs will be temporarily recalled from service at least once each year so that the software on the notebook can be upgraded and its physical condition evaluated. The timeframe for these recalls will be determined by the GLNPO TM. 10.3.1.1.3 GLNPO IT Hardware Inventory Tracking Spreadsheet: The Contractor shall maintain a spreadsheet listing all of the GLNPO servers, desktop PCs, network enabled notebook PCs, stand alone loan pool notebook PCs, printers and other peripheral devices which are in use in the GLNPO office (excluding IT equipment in use on the RV Lake Guardian), regardless of the network to which they connect . This inventory will include working PCs which are in cubicles, or in the contractor's possession for their use or waiting for future software reimaging or deployment. 10.3.1.1.4 The IT hardware inventory tracking spreadsheet shall contain a header on each page with the full pathname to the file: The spreadsheet will include: the date of latest information contained in the spreadsheet, the equipment type and model description, manufacturer's S/N, EPA Custody decal number (if one exists), current location of the device, name of the currently assigned user of the PC, and the name of the network to which the device connects. At the start of this contract, the GLNPO TM will provide the Contractor with a copy of the most recent GLNPO Hardware Tracking Spreadsheet. 10.3.1.1.5 The Contractor shall include a current copy of the GLNPO Desktop PC and Printer Inventory Tracking spreadsheet as an attachment to each Monthly Deliverable Report.

38

10.3.1.2 Software Support for GLNPO PCs and Servers:: The Contractor shall install, configure, and upgrade software on the government owned servers, PCs and other IT devices which connect to the GLNPO networks. The EPA LAN Administrator will work with the contractor to provide oversight for trouble-shooting any instances of problems with the software on the servers. In some instances major applications may need to be reinstalled from scratch, as when a network server cluster is migrated to a new configuration operating on new equipment 10.3.1.2.1 This requirement includes the installation, configuration, upgrade, testing, troubleshooting and maintenance of new or upgraded software on GLNPO servers, PCs and other IT peripherals. 10.3.1.2.2 The GLNPO networks are currently using a MS Windows 2008 Enterprise operating system. We expect to continue using a Windows network operating system, with occasional upgrades as new versions are released. The contractor installation, configuration, maintenance and administration of the Windows network operating system software on the GLNPO networks is a primary requirement of this task. 10.3.1.2.3 A few servers on the GLNPO external 5LAKES network are currently running a RedHat Linux operating system which hosts VMWare virtualizing software. The virtual servers and PCs which are created under VMWare on these networks may be either Linux or Windows virtual machines. 10.3.1.2.4 The Linux servers and virtual PCs are currently using a different antivirus (AV) software protection than the Windows servers. The AV software running under Linux needs to be administered in a different way than the AV software running under Windows. In a similar way, the version of the server backup application which is used for the preparation of the daily backup tapes on the Windows servers is administered differently than the same application when run under Linux or in a virtual environment. 10.3.1.2.4.1 The contractor installation, configuration, maintenance and administration of the Linux operating system on the servers which host the VMWare virtualizing software, and of the VMWare virtualizing software, is a requirement of this task. 10.3.1.2.4.2 The contractor's use and administration of Linux and VMWare to create and manager virtual servers and PCs will primary and recurrent requirements of this task. 10.3.1.2.5 Technical Support for Users of the GLNPO networks: The contractor shall provide general user support for account holders on the GLNPO networks. This requirement includes basic troubleshooting and resolution of account and login problems, hardware and software problems. The contractor will be expected to provide basic, short explanations in response to user inquiries about how to use government owned hardware and software on GLNPO networks. More extensive user training will provided by EPA and is not a requirement of this task.

39

10.3.1.2.6 Maintain a Technical Support E-mail Account for non-GLNPO User Support on the GLNPO External Network: The contractor will maintain a user support e-mail account (ACCOUNTHELP) for the receipt of user support requests from non-GLNPO account holders on the GLNPO external network. (Support calls for the GLNPO AA Domain and for password resets on the external networks may also be submitted by GLNPO employees through the EPA Region 5 3HELP support line mentioned in a later section. The 3HELP line is covered under a different task in this contract.) The contents of the ACCOUNTHELP mail box will be reviewed on a daily basis by the contractor and by the EPA Task Manager for this task. 10.3.1.2.7 Contractor Response to ACCOUNTHELP Support Requests: The contractor will respond to all support requests for the GLNPO External network which are received by the ACCOUNTHELP mail box with an acknowledgement of receipt of the message. Responses are not required for automated out-of-office messages. If the message requests External network support and the problem cannot be corrected the same business day that the message was received, the contractor will respond with a summary of pending actions and an expected completion date, within 1 business day of receipt of the request. (Example: "We have received your support request and will send you updated login information within 48 hours".) 10.3.2 Implementing Redundant Array of Independent Disk (RAID) configurations for Network Data Storage Devices, Backup Procedures, and Testing Data Recovery: The Contractor shall configure the hard drive arrays on the GLNPO AA Domain and on the GLNPO External 5LAKES networks to conform to a RAID 5 or comparable data protection standard which prevents any loss of data when a single hard drive fails. The hot-swappable drive and automatic system recovery features should also be enabled if technically feasible. 10.3.3 Maintaining a Tape Backup Recovery Procedure for the GLNPO Networks: The Contractor shall maintain a tape backup recovery procedure for the GLNPO AA Domain and the GLNPO External 5LAKES networks, and shall backup all of the data on the GLNPO networks to tape for weekly transfer to remote protected storage. The backup plans currently recommends differential backups during normal work days unless there has been no activity on the server, and weekly full backups of the servers. The ArcServe backup software required for this task will be provided to the Contractor by the GLNPO TM at the start of this task. A summary of the backup operations for the month, including any problems or failures to backup a server as planned, shall be included in the Monthly Deliverable reports. 10.3.3.1 Backup software: The ArcServe backup software current used for this requirement, as well as the antivirus applications, use different administrator protocols when run under a Windows operating system or a Linux NOS. 10.3.3.2 Off-site storage of GLNPO Back-up Tapes: The GLNPO currently uses an off-site tape storage service for the collection, storage and retrieval of GLNPO's backup tapes for the GLNPO AA Domain and GLNPO External 5LAKES networks. The contractor shall collect the backup tapes for the GLNPO External and AA networks and prepare them for weekly pick-up by the tape storage vendor. Changes to the current tape backup and servers' disaster recovery plan may be made to meet changing requirements, in consultation with the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator and GLNPO IT Security Manager. The GLNPO TM may request specific changes to the server backup procedure via e-mail to the Contractor at any time in order to address changes in USEPA's LANs security and disaster recovery requirements.
40

10.3.3.3 Annual Test Restore from Back-up Tapes: The Contractor shall perform at least one successful test Restore of backed up data on the GLNPO AA Domain and GLNPO External 5LAKES networks each year, to be completed by the 60th calendar day after the beginning of the task, and reported in the 60 day deliverable report. Each restore will be scheduled after consultation with the EPA LAN administrator and GLNPO IT Security Manager, and the results of the restore (success, failure, technical problems encountered and resolved) will be attached to the Monthly Deliverable report.

10.4 Administration of the GLNPO Networks: Each of the GLNPO networks requires a mix of support requirements which are unique to that network. Since the GLNPO only maintains a portion of the equipment and services provided through the USEPA Region 5 network on which the GLNPO AA Domain resides, the contractor's support requirements under this task for the GLNPO AA Domain are more limited than the support requirements for the GLNPO External network. The GLNPO External network provide similar functions and host many of the same enterprise applications. The contractor's network administration and technical support requirements for those two networks are quite similar. The servers for the GLNPO AA Domain and External networks are located in the GLNPO office. Those servers may be administered from the network console and will be directly available to the contractors on a daily basis. As described in a previous section, the GLNPO network servers primarily use a Windows 2008 Enterprise network operating system (NOS), with a few servers running a RedHat Linux NOS which hosts the VMWare virtualizing application. The virtual servers and PCs which the contractor creates using VMWare may have either Windows or Linux operating systems. The performance of the following sub-tasks requires expertise in Windows, Linux and VMWare. 10.4.1 Creation and Management of Accounts on the GLNPO Networks: The Contractor shall create, maintain and manage user accounts on the GLNPO AA Domain and on the GLNPO External network. Local user and system accounts must also be created and maintained on the GLNPO office PCs which attach to those networks, following EPA security guidelines and policies for account management. Specific EPA Information Security Plans have been developed for the GLNPO AA Domain and External LANs by negotiation between GLNPO and EPA's national IT support group. In the case of a conflict between the general EPA IT networks guidelines and the special GLNPO Information Security Plans for the GLNPO AA Domain and External LANs; the requirements of the special plans take precedence. Technical Direction received from the GLNPO TM will take precedence in any situation in which work performed under this task appears to conflict with the general EPA security guidelines and policies.

41

10.4.1.1 Networks Account Management The contractor will be required to reset network passwords as they expire, to verify normal account activity, to disable or delete accounts no longer in use and archive their data, to contact new users with expiring password notices and account access information, and to inform the GLNPO EPA Network Administrator via phone or e-mail of any unusual problems with the accounts. Individual network accounts should be created within one business day of request. Larger numbers of network accounts should be created within 3 business days of request, unless an alternate completion deadline is provided by the EPA Task Manager. A general summary of Contractor actions taken under this requirement, and of problems reported, along with a brief analysis of their likely cause and the corrective measures taken, shall be included in the Monthly Deliverable reports. 10.4.1.2 MS SharePoint Accounts: The administration and management of MS SharePoint services and accounts on the GLNPO External network is a core business requirement for the office. SharePoint offers basic web portal and internet functionality and is used in GLNPO for team and project sub-sites for the collaborative exchange of information. 10.4.1.3 Management of SharePoint Accounts and User Profiles: The Contractor shall create and administer new SharePoint user accounts, reset SharePoint account passwords, and assist SharePoint users in the resolution of basic SharePoint access problems. There is an expected demand for the creation and/or deletion of 500 to 800 External network and SharePoint accounts each year. Care The new glnpo.net and SharePoint account names must be entered correctly and must exactly match EPA LAN account names when one exists. Each newly created account will require at least two notification e-mails to the user, one with the account information, and a separate e-mail with the account password. External account holders with expiring passwords are currently notified by the Contractor 14 days before expiration, on a biweekly basis. External network account profiles for non-GLNPO employees with expired passwords older than 180 days are moved to an account profile archive folder unless a different schedule is approved in writing by the TM. 10.4.1.4 A summary of the new SharePoint accounts created, and of old SharePoint accounts deleted during the month, shall be included in the Monthly Deliverable reports.

10.5 Software and Juniper VPN Support for the GLNPO Network Servers: The contractor shall install, upgrade and maintain the network operating system (NOS) software and various enterprise applications on the servers of the three GLNPO networks. The GLNPO AA Domain contains a Domain controller and a few application servers and data storage devices but does not host the major enterprise applications which are used on the other two networks. The support requirements for the primary enterprise applications are listed below; 10.5.1 MS IIS (Internet Information Services) support: IIS software is used as the foundation for MS Windows SharePoint web services and for the development web server on the GLNPO External network. The application must be installed and maintained on the GLNPO External network.

42

10.5.2 MS SQL server Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain the MS SQL server software on the GLNPO External network servers. This is used as the database engine for the management of GLNPO's SharePoint data. The EPA LAN Administrator will work with the contractor to provide oversight for trouble-shooting any instances of problems with the software. 10.5.3 MS Exchange Server Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain Microsoft Exchange Server software. Exchange server is an e-mail service which will primarily be used for the creation of e-mail groups to be used to send notifications to our Active Directory account holders. The contractor will be responsible for creating and maintaining the Exchange mail groups based on our Active Directory network accounts. Only a small number of e-mail accounts will be required on the server, and most of those e-mail accounts will be administrator, system or test accounts. The EPA LAN Administrator will work with the contractor to provide oversight for trouble-shooting any instances of problems with the software. 10.5.4 Juniper Networks Secure Access 4500 SSL VPN Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain Juniper Networks Secure Access SSL VPN device on the GLNPO External network. This VPN is an appliance (hardware with installed software) which allows secure remote access to the external servers behind the GLNPO networks firewall. Account holders use the VPN to login to the GLNPO External network via a web page which provides secure access route to the servers based on the rights associated with their Active Directory account on the external network. The GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator will work with the contractor to provide oversight for trouble-shooting any instances of problems with the software. The application must be installed and maintained on the GLNPO External network. 10.5.5 CheckPoint Firewall Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain the checkpoint firewall on the GLNPO External network. This is primarily a configuration and maintenance task in which the contractor controls external access to the network via settings on the firewall. The continuous and uninterrupted operation of this firewall device is a mission-critical aspect of the support received under this task. 10.5.6 MS Sharepoint Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain the GLNPO SharePoint web sites on the GLNPO External network. The management of SharePoint accounts and access rights group described previously is a primary requirement of this task. The Sharepoint sites must be online and remotely accessible at all times unless failure is due to a major hardware problem which is outside of the contractor's ability to resolve. 10.6 Implementation and Assessment of GLNPO Networks' Security: This sub-task does not include the update of security patches or virus pattern files on the GLNPO AA Domain. The security and virus files on the GLNPO AA Domain servers and attached computers are provided by Region 5 EPA personnel, and by contractors working under a different task in this support contract. Security and vulnerability assessment software may be used to run scans of the GLNPO AA Domain as described below. Most of the AV and security update requirements below are focused on the GLNPO External network.

43

10.7 Weekly Updates of Network Security Patches and Anti-virus Patterns: The Contractor shall update the servers and government owned PCs which connect to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network with Windows updates, software patches, security patches and anti-virus patterns, at least once per week when the equipment is in use on the network. The attached government owned PCs should receive their security updates via an automated process which checks for current security patches and AV pattern files when a user logs into the network, and which automatically runs a virus scan and installs updates and patches as required. 10.7.1 Documenting and Reporting the Upgrade of Security Files: The Contractor shall include the weekly upgrade of security patches and virus pattern updates for the GLNPO External 5LAKES network servers in the electronic server-activities logs as the updates are made. The Contractor shall also document the weekly update of security patches and Antivirus pattern files on the GLNPO External network in the weekly technical reports and in the monthly deliverable reports. 10.8 Weekly Reboot of External Network Servers to Activate Security Updates: The Contractor shall reboot all of the servers in the GLNPO External server clusters on a weekly basis, unless a different schedule is provided to the contractor as a Technical Direction by the GLNPO EPA Task Manager after the start of the task. This action is intended to ensure that all security patches and updates have been correctly loaded and finalized on the servers. Server reboots are usually scheduled near COB on the last business day of the work week to minimize impact on users of the network. The office intends to implement an automated server update and reboot system which will reboot the unattended servers over the weekend. If an automated server reboot system is not already in place as the task begins, the new contractor will recommend and implement one, if technically feasible, after discussion with GLNPO technical personnel. The Contractor shall document the weekly reboot of the servers on the GLNPO External networks in the weekly technical reports and in the monthly deliverable reports. 10.8.1 Performance Monitoring of the GLNPO Networks: The Contractor shall perform monitoring of the GLNPO networks performance during regular work days, at least once per week, in order to ensure acceptable network utilization, review network traffic, and verify equipment function. A short summary of the results should be included in the Monthly Deliverable reports. 10.8.2 Documenting the GLNPO Networks ­ Maintaining Network Diagrams and Server Change Logs: The Contractor shall maintain network diagrams for the GLNPO portion of the EPA Region 5 AA Domain and for the GLNPO External 5LAKES network. These diagrams will include graphical representations of the devices in the racks, including all of the switches, power supplies, servers, data storage units and any other devices connected to the server racks. They will also include tables or diagrams which summarize the electrical ratings of the equipment in the three networks, the electrical connections between the wall circuits and the UPSs and the servers, and the logical connections between the switches

44

10.8.3 and servers and devices. The Contractor shall be provided with the most recent set of network diagrams for the AA and External networks, including the Visio source files and logs, at the beginning of the task, and may view the set of 12 monthly networks diagrams from the previous year. The networks' diagrams must be prepared using Microsoft Visio software unless an alternate reporting format is approved in writing by the GLNPO TM. The Visio software will be provided to the Contractor by EPA at the start of the task. 10.8.3.1 Maintenance of Server-change Logs: The Contractor shall maintain server-change log files reflecting the changes made to the GLNPO AA Domain and External 5LAKES servers. The electronic log files shall be updated by the Contractor as needed to reflect significant changes in hardware, software, peripherals or network configuration which are being made by the Contractor or EPA. Copies of the most recent 3 months of the server log files will be included in an encrypted electronic monthly confidential report, and the log files themselves will be maintained as a historic record of changes on the server. The weekly security updates and reboots of the servers must also be reflected in the log files, unless a change to the requirement is provided in writing by the EPA Task Manager. 10.8.3.2 GLNPO Monthly Confidential Networks Security Diagrams: The monthly confidential networks' diagrams shall document the servers, Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPS) hubs, routers, switches and peripherals on the networks, including their model number, S/N, EPA Custody Decal number (if one exists), the EPA reference names for the servers, and a copy of the office floor plan which shows the location of the external network jacks. This confidential report will include copies of the server-change log file entries for each network. Additional items or reports, including Bindview network security analysis summaries, may be added to this list by the GLNPO TM as the reporting requirements change. The Contractor shall confer with the GLNPO EPA Windows LAN Administrator to plan all changes to the network diagrams prior to updating the diagrams. 10.9 Submission Format for Confidential Monthly Deliverable Report: The GLNPO network diagrams are sensitive documents which shall be provided electronically each month, via encrypted e-mail, to the GLNPO Task Manager, the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator for the external networks, and to the GLNPO Information Security Officer (ISO). The GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator will provide the Contractor with access to the current network diagrams at the beginning of the task. Two (2) printer copies of the confidential monthly network reports shall also be provided to the EPA TM, in sealed envelopes marked "GLNPO Confidential" which reflect the date of the report. These printer copies will be used as references during the technical meetings between the GLNPO TM, the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator, and the contractors. 10.9.1 Networks Security; Implementation, Maintenance, Evaluation and Reporting: The Contractor shall inspect the system, application, security and firewall logs on the GLNPO AA Domain, External 5LAKES servers for problems at least once per week.

45

10.9.1.1 Bindview, BigFix or other network analysis reports: The GLNPO currently uses Bindview software to analyze and report on many aspects of GLNPO's servers and LAN accounts for IT security purposes. This application may be supplemented or replaced by BigFix, Tenable Nessus or other network analysis tools which provide similar security assessment functions. The USEPA provides the GLNPO (EPA) IT Security Manager with a list of networks' standards which the Contractor shall use to assess the results of the GLNPO Bindview or other server analysis reports. Those standards are evolving and a current set will be provided to the Contractor by the USEPA at the beginning of the task. The standards include items such as the length of time before password expiration, the rights allowed for different types of LAN accounts, the number of failed login attempts on each account, and the removal of generic LAN account names. The Contractor shall include a Bindview summary of the servers and devices on the GLNPO External network and on the GLNPO External Virtual network in each Monthly Deliverable report. A deviation in this requirement may be provided in writing by the EPA Task Manager, either by the elimination of the requirement, or by the substitution or addition of alternate network analysis software for the reports. 10.9.1.2 The Contractor shall work with the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator, the GLNPO IT Security Manager, and with the USEPA Region 5 Information Security Team to identify and reconcile any discrepancies between the EPA LANs security standards and the actual configurations of the GLNPO servers. 10.9.1.3 Response to Security Log Problems: The Contractor shall investigate and attempt to resolve system security log problems, such as repeated logon attempts, intruder lockouts, application and system errors, intrusion attempts, and virus outbreaks on the servers. 10.9.1.4 Response to High Priority Security Problems: The Contractor shall report high priority security problems found in the server logs and Bindview reports to the GLNPO EPA Windows LAN Administrator, to the GLNPO IT Security Manager, and to the GLNPO TM via e-mail within one business day of their discovery. High priority problems are those which present an imminent threat of potential damage to the networks, such as repeated intrusion attempts, denial of service attacks, disconnection of the servers from the network, and virus outbreaks on the servers. 10.9.1.5 Contractor Response to Security Problems when EPA Staff are Unavailable: In the event that none of the EPA personnel listed above are available, the Contractor shall take immediate corrective action, based on their best technical judgment, to address high-risk security problems, and then report the action which was taken to EPA contacts, via e-mail. 10.9.1.6 Network Vulnerability Analysis: Assessments, Reports and Contractor Response to Reported Deficiencies: Several times each year the GLNPO Information Security Officer (ISO) will run network vulnerability tests of the network, using Bindview, BigFix, Tenable Nessus or other similar network security analysis tools. These scans identify vulnerabilities in the configuration of the network and usually generate extensive lists of patches and corrective actions required to fully secure the network. The results of the network scans will be provided to the contractor for corrective action. The contractor shall address the problems described, by installing updates and adjusting settings, within 10 business days of receipt of the reports, unless an extension is approved in writing by the Task manager.
46

10.9.1.7 Networks Vulnerability Testing and Security Assessments: The national EPA networks group occasionally performs an evaluation of the security of the GLNPO networks. This project is usually announced ahead of time and is coordinated with the GLNPO IT Security Officer. The contractor shall assist in preparing for this exercise by providing additional Bindview reports and other assessments of the network. The contractor shall also remediate technical and security vulnerabilities which are identified by the GLNPO IT Security Manager using security evaluation software. This project usually requires a focused effort over a period of a few weeks prior to the final security assessment to fully prepare the networks. 10.9.2 Contractor Response to Common Computer Viruses or Other Exploits: Any virus infections, worms, malware or other exploits which are found on the servers or attached PCs must be reported within 24 hours of discovery by the Contractor to the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator or to the GLNPO IT Security Manager, in person or by voicemail or e-mail, and the Contractor shall take corrective actions to remove the threat. The Contractor shall include verification that the glnpo.net servers have been updated or patched with the current files in each Weekly progress report and Monthly Deliverable report. 10.9.2.1 Contractor Response to More Serious Network Security Problems: Any problems identified during network monitoring which the Contractor considers to be serious under EPA LAN guidelines, or in the GLNPO AA Domain and External LAN security plans, such as unplanned disconnection of the servers from the network or unexpected shutdown of the servers, shall be reported the same work day to the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator and to the GLNPO TM, either in person, or via voicemail or e-mail. 10.9.3 Point of Contact (POC) for the Automated Security Self-Evaluation and Remediation Tracking (ASSERT) System: EPA requires security related activities on the GLNPO AA Domain, GLNPO External network, and the GLNPO External Virtual network, to be recorded in the Automated Security Self-Evaluation and Remediation Tracking (ASSERT) database. This is an inherently governmental responsibility and the GLNPO IT Security Manager has the sole responsibility for entering server security reports into the ASSERT database throughout the year. The contractor supports this requirement by providing technical analysis, reports generated from Bindview, BigFix, Tenable Nessus or other networks' security assessment tools which the GLNPO IT Security Manager uses to prepare the reports for the ASSERT database. At least one member of the Contractor group shall act as a designated Point of Contact (POC) for the ASSERT database, and shall work with the GLNPO IT Security Manager to provide technical information which reflects server configurations, security settings, and similar information which characterizes the steps taken by the Contractor to ensure the security of the networks. 10.9.4 Reporting User Support Requests to the (3-HELP) Help Desk: All GLNPOemployee requests for hardware and software support on GLNPO's government owned IT equipment, including all requests for troubleshooting and reconfiguration of equipment and software, must be reported to the R5 3HELP support line for assignment to the HEAT calltracking database. A weekly summary of all HEAT tickets generated by the GLNPO office shall be included in the Weekly progress report . A monthly summary of all update reports including the likely cause of the problems and the corrective measures shall be included in the Monthly Deliverable report.

47

10.9.5 Reporting User Support Requests to the (ACCOUNTHELP) E-mail Support Account: Non-GLNPO-employee requests for technical and account support on the GLNPO External network are sent to the ACCOUNTEHLP as previously described. A weekly summary of all ACCOUNTHELP messages which contain specific support requests shall be included in the Weekly progress report. A monthly summary of the same information shall be included in the Monthly Deliverable report. 10.10 GLNPO PC Software Audits: The GLNPO currently uses the Belarc Belmanage software and hardware auditing application to audit the government owned servers and desktop PCs which attach to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network. This product may be replaced during the life of the contract by BigFix or other hardware and software audit tools. The EPA owned devices which connect to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network should be receive a automated hardware and software audit at least once per week, or on an alternate schedule as determined by the GLNPO TM. The contractor is required to maintain a Belarc Belmanage tracking database for the GLNPO owned computers which log into the GLNPO External 5LAKES network as long as the GLNPO provides access to the software. The use of alternate software and hardware audit utilities may be required in writing by the GLNPO TM. The resulting audit results shall be stored in a database which is accessible to the TM, and the contractor shall prepare special software audit reports as-needed at the request of the GLNPO TM. 10.10.1 Software Audits of Loan Pool Notebook PCs: The Contractor shall also run a software audit on each of GLNPO's stand-alone notebook PCs at least once per year. The GLNPO TM will provide notebook PCs to the Contractor throughout the year for maintenance, at which time the contractor should take an audit of the notebook using a stand-alone version of the Belmanage software, or other auditing software provided by EPA. The Contractor is not responsible for performing software audits on notebook PCs which are unavailable during the period of performance for this task, or for obtaining the software/hardware auditing application used to perform the requirement. That auditing application must be provided to the contractor by EPA in order for the contractor to complete this requirement. 10.10.1.1 Maintaining a GLNPO notebook PC software audit database: The Contractor is not required to run a software audit on any PC which is broken or in storage at the time of the audit request, or on any PC which the GLNPO TM has identified in writing as being exempt from the audit. The Contractor shall provide printed software audit reports to the TM as required, usually less than 4 times per year. The spreadsheet should include, at a minimum, the model, location and user of the computer being audited, the names and version numbers of the applications installed on the computer, the name of each of the application's executable file(s), and the path to each application's installation folder. 10.10.1.2 Providing EPA with Electronic Access to Audit Reports: The GLNPO TM will have access to an electronic copy of the Contractor's electronic desktop and notebook PC software audit spreadsheets stored on the GLNPO LAN. Neither the GLNPO TM nor any other EPA employee will modify or delete the Contractor's source copy of the spreadsheets. The GLNPO TM will provide the Contractor with the path to the current GLNPO software tracking spreadsheets on the LAN, and with the path to the Region 5 PC software audit database, at the start of this task. The full path to the filename containing the Contractors audit reports should be included at the top of each printed report.
48

10.11 TRAVEL: Travel Requirements 10.11.1 Contractor Attendance at the Annual EPA IT Security Conference: One of the primary Task 7 support contractors shall travel to the annual EPA IT Security and LAN Operations conference each year. The conferences are usually held in the spring or early summer. The contractor will be required to attend a minimum of 3 days of the five day conference, with the actual number of days to be determined by the EPA Task Manager based on the topics being presented. The dates and location for the conference, as well as the number of days of required attendance will be provided to the contractor by the EPA Task manager in writing at least 4 weeks before the start of the conference. 10.11.1.1 Contractor Attendance at Security Conference Sessions: The annual EPA IT Security and LAN Operations conference offers multiple concurrent tracks and speakers. The contractor may attend whichever information sessions best support Task 7 requirements. The contractor must attend the first and final sessions of each conference day, as well as individual sessions throughout the day. At the end of the conference the contractor shall provide the list of all sessions which they attended to the EPA Task Manager, and include the same information in that month's deliverable report. 10.11.1.2 The contractor shall try to obtain government rates for lodging and air fare. The contractor will not be reimbursed for costs which exceed the Federal Travel Regulation per diem and lodging rates, unless they have received prior approval of the CO and PO. 10.11.1.3 The contractor shall submit their travel requests to the EPA Project Officer, or his/her designated alternate. The EPA Project Officer is the approving authority for any contractor related travel. 10.11.1.4 below Constraints: The contractor will be required to follow the constraints listed

11.0 STANDARDS AND REFERENCES: All documents listed in Section 11can be accessed thru the following EPA intranet websites. The contractor will have access to these documents upon contract award: http://intranet.epa.gov/itsecurity http://intranet.epa.gov/itsecurity/compoversightassit/compoversightassit.html http://intranet.epa.gov 11.1.1 Applicable Publications and Forms. EPA 2185 - Good Automated Laboratory Practices (GALP) EPA Information Management and Information Technology Policies (Latest version) EPA Information Resources Management (IRM) Policy Manual, EPA Information Security Manual (Directive 2195A), RACF Security Manual, EPA PROMIUM Requirements Specification EPA PROMIUM User's Reference Guide Guidance for Establishing Rules of Behavior for Information Security Plans IT Resource Management LAN Communication Gateways and Interconnectivity (Latest version). LAN Problem Determination and Resolution (Latest version).
49

LAN System Management (Latest version). Microsoft Windows Security Checklist for Workstations and Servers Microsoft Windows Standard Configuration Documents Network Infrastructure Services (NIS) LAN Operational Procedures Manual OMB Circular A-130 Appendix III, "Security of Federal Automated Information Resources" Operating Procedures Manual and Regional Security Policies, ie., Security Plans and ISO directives Personal Computer (PC) configuration and Inventory Management (Latest version). Personal Computer (PC) Security (Latest version). System Life Cycle Management Policy Use of Remote Access to EPA LANs (Latest version). 11.2 Report Generation 11.2.1 The contractor shall develop standard and ad hoc reports (to include data, text, and graphics) from various computer systems in accordance with established schedules and as requested by the Project Officer or authorized Information Management Branch (IMB) representative(s). 11.2.2 The reports shall be accurate and complete. The contractor shall deliver the reports in accordance with established priorities. 11.2.3 The contractor shall generate the deliverables so they can be easily interpreted and meet all other requirements set forth in the Contract. 11.2.4 All materials (i.e., documentation, user guides, programs, graphics, etc.) produced by the contractor under the Contract will become the sole property of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5. 12.0 WORK REQUESTS: The government will request and control services by means of the established Work Request Procedure. The EPA TM will determine the priorities, to ensure the contractor completes the critical tasks in a timely manner. 12.1 The EPA Project Officer will forward all Work Request(s) to the contractor's Site Manager via e-mail. The contractor is responsible for performing all requirements specified in the Work Request, (Appendix C). 12.2 Work Request/Project Planning The contractor will receive a Region 5 Work Request and the contractor shall: 12.2.1 12.2.2 12.2.3 12.2.4 12.2.5 12.2.6 and, 12.2.7 Analyze the requirements; Ask clarification questions as necessary; Collect reference information; Determine an overall approach for providing the services; Develop an overall schedule and resource estimate; Identify the various control points needed to monitor and control the project Establish quality control requirements.
50

progress;

The contractor shall utilize the forms (Work Request, Work Definition, and Work Completion) and processes established by the EPA Project Officer for communicating this information. 13.0 TRAVEL: Travel Requirements

13.1 The contractor shall travel as required to perform the tasks of the contract. The contractor shall try to obtain government rates for lodging and air fare. The contractor will not be reimbursed for costs exceeding the Federal Travel Regulation per diem and lodging rates, without the express approval of the CO/PO. 13.2 The contractor shall travel to the satellite offices when required to provide Data (PC Installations, software repairs/upgrades), and Telecommunication (voice) support. 13.3 The government may require the contractor to attend U.S. EPA meetings, industry conferences, seminars, etc. This travel may be at the national level. It may also include travel within the local commuting area. 13.4 The contractor shall submit their travel requests to the EPA Project Officer, or his/her designated alternate. The EPA Project Officer is the approving authority for any contractor related travel. 14.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN (QASP) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 5 Information Technology Support Services 14.1 INTRODUCTION: This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) sets forth the procedures and guidance that the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will use in evaluating the technical performance of the contractor in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Contract. The QASP is a document that defines how the Government will monitor the Region 5 Information Technology contractor's performance. The QASP provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the contractor is required to perform. The contractor, and not the Government, is responsible for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract. The role of the government is to ensure quality assurance contract standards are achieved. 14.1.1 PURPOSE OF THE QASP: The QASP provides the EPA Project Officer (PO), EPA Contracting Officer (CO), and EPA Task Manager (TM) the ability to conduct surveillance activities of contractor performance during the life of the contract. The QASP details how and when EPA will monitor, evaluate, and document contractor performance in the areas outlined in the Performance Work Statement. The contractor develops and submits the Quality Control Plan (QCP) for Government approval in order to comply with contract deliverables. Once accepted, the contractor then uses the QCP to guide and document the implementation of the required management and quality control actions to achieve the specified results. 14.1.1.1 The QASP is intended to accomplish the following:

(1) Define the roles and responsibilities of participating Government officials:
51

Contracting Officer (CO) ­ The government employee responsible for executing, administering, and providing direction on the Contract. This person is duly appointed with the authority to enter into, administer, or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings on behalf of the Government. Project Officer (PO) ­ The government employee who is responsible for oversight of the Regional Information Technology Support Contract. The individual is designated in writing by the Contracting Officer to act as his/her authorized representative to assist in administering a contract. The source of the Project Officer authority is the Contracting Officer. The Project Officer is not empowered to make any contractual commitments or to authorize any contractual changes on the Government's behalf. Any changes that the Contractor deems may affect contract, price, terms, or conditions shall be referred to the Contracting Officer for action. Task Manager (TM) - Task leader who interacts with contractor for purposes of technical inter-change and Clarification of Work Requests. (2) Define the Key deliverables that will be assessed, Rating Elements, and Standards of Performance against which the Contractor's performance will be assessed for Key Deliverables. Though the Government, through its CO/PO/TPOC, will monitor the Contractor's performance on a continuing basis, the volume of tasks performed by the Contractor makes technical inspections of every task and step impractical. The performance measures summary is located in the matrix below. The summary includes the required service(s), performance standard(s), acceptable quality level(s), method of surveillance, and performance incentives for each work element and is outlined in Exhibit A below: (3) Describe the process of quality assurance assessment. A determination of the contractor's overall performance will be on an annual basis. EPA will provide annual customer feedback to the contractor by summarizing the past year's surveillance activities under the contractor Performance System (CPS) administered by the National Institute of Health. As soon as noteworthy accomplishments or discrepancies are identified with a deliverable generated by Region 5's IT contract, the PO and CO will notify the contractor. (4) Define how quality assurance will be monitored. The Project Officer will, in addition to providing documentation to the Contracting Officer, will maintain a complete Quality Assurance file. The file will contain copies of all reports, evaluations, recommendations, and any actions related to the Government's performance of the quality assurance function. All such records will be retained for the life of this contract. The Project Officer shall forward these records to the Contracting Officer at termination or completion of the contract.

52

15.0 PERFORMANCE MATRIX- NOTE: Each required service will be reviewed and if the AQL is not met, the monthly invoice amount will be decreased by a prorated percentage based on the number of standards for each required service, not to exceed 3% of the total invoice. Required Service Standard Acceptable Quality Level Method of Negative Incentive (AQL) Surveillance Payment For not Meeting The Performance Requirement
Expertise/Certification required Appendix A .The contractor shall present all certifications, expertise, and qualifications documentation when a contractor individual(s) initially report(s) for work. Submit documentation as required in appendix A of the PWS. Documentation must be submitted prior to employees first day of work. Pursuant to all EPA Network/Software system changes the contractor has 60 calendar days to provide the required added certification to the Project Officer. Contractor performs adds moves and changes by due date. Adds moves and changed are completed within the required time frame TSR database Email Weekly report 100% Inspection The government will assess a deduction of 1% from the monthly invoice for each day the contractor individual is on the job and the Project Officer does not receive the documentation.

Voice & Data Telecommunications (Section 4.0)

4.1.1 The contractor shall provide ongoing voice and data telecommunications operations support. Including installation and maintenance work, at any EPA Region 5 location. The EPA will order all adds, moves, changes, and requests for maintenance and repair via the EPA Telecommunication Service Request (TSR). (See Appendix D) 4.1.2 The contractor shall install and maintain telecommunications equipment. 4.1.2 The contractor shall maintain equipment and repair or coordinate repairs with vendors.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Perform installation upon receipt of equipment.

Install performed within 24 hours unless granted additional time by TM or alternate The equipment is operational within 3 working days or notify TM or alternate if repair will be more than 3 working days

Email Weekly report

The contractor shall monitor and analyze usage and capacity of the telecommunications equipment and requirements on a continuous basis.

Email Weekly report

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. 1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

53

4.1.3 The contractor shall provide centralized telecommunications infrastructure support with emphasis on voice, video, PC desktop, data and cabling services

Contractor performs changes by due date.

adds

moves

and

Voice and video services are completed by due date

4.2.1

Region 5 Voice Mail System

The contractor shall provide tier 1 maintenance services for the managed service VoIP system in Region 5

The voice mail system is available for use 99.9% of business hours. Reports provided weekly

TSR database Email Weekly report Video Conference Service Request Form Email Weekly report

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

4.2.4 The contractor shall maintain and operate the EPA Regional Locator Database.

The contractor shall provide the Locator Database electronically on an as needed basis in the format specified by the EPA. Data is updated, reviewed by R5 EPA staff, and sent to EPA Headquarters monthly. The contractor shall ensure current and accurate EPA locator database information. The contractor shall also use the database to provide Headquarters directories for publication and reconcile phone line inventory with EPA staff located at Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and locate GSA staff. The contractor will be responsible for level 1 support tasks for telephone service including moving phones within the location, adding new phones to the system, and making changes to existing phones. Any more difficult problems will be escalated to the VoIP managed service provider level 2 support group. Will

Provide the Locator Database electronically on an as needed basis in the format specified by the EPA. Data is updated, reviewed by R5 EPA staff, and sent to EPA Headquarters monthly.

TSR database Email Weekly report View locator database

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL. 1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

4.2.5.2 The contractor shall provide support for a managed Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) communications system

All moves, adds and changes are completed within 1 working day.

TSR database Email Weekly report

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

54

Network Services (Section 5)

Required Service

Standard

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Method of Surveillance

Negative Incentive Payment For not Meeting The Performance Requirement
3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted if configuration and procedural documentation do not reflect the current revision, and are not up to date.

Submit all status changes 5.1 & 5.3 The contractor shall maintain and provide Region 5's current Network status. This includes, but is not limited to, Local/ Wide Area Network, router, switch, firewall, server procedures, and security application configurations. Support is also required for Regional user support (desktop). 5.2.10 The contractor must 100% of unauthorized personnel shall be adhere to physical security documented upon entering and exiting the NOC. procedures established by Region 5 EPA for the NOC. LAN /Computer Services and Software 5.0 Contractor must provide Complete all computers adds, moves, and changes support functions for the within the time frame specified on the IMB Work Request. evaluation of hardware, firmware, peripherals, and software for use by EPA staff. This includes troubleshooting, and resolving problems Install and maintain all regional computers, encountered using printers, and peripherals. microcomputer hardware, including peripherals, software, and printers. Repair and resolve isolated user hardware and software problems within four (4) hours.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee.

Weekly Report -The government will undertake a Random Sampling of documentation at the end of each fiscal year quarter.

No deviation

Weekly Reports and Random checks

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Oversee an inventory of tools, parts, equipment, and maintenance agreements needed to minimize user or network downtime.

Computer service must be restored within the time frame specified on the IMB Work Request 95% of the time. Computer service must be restored within the time frame specified on the IMB Work Request 95% of the time. Delay is permitted only with the explicit consent of the TM or his/her designee. The database inventory report may not contain more than 10% incorrect inaccessible or inappropriate line of information.

Weekly Status Report

Monthly Status Report

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database Status meetings

55

Provide all reports and documentation in the time frame or format mandated either in the DELIVERABLES section or the Work Request. 5.3.4 The contractor must maintain a database of all LAN computer room equipment. Contractor oversees an inventory of tools, parts, equipment and maintenance agreements needed to minimize user or network/WAN downtime.

Delay is permitted only with the explicit consent of the TM or his/her designee. The database inventory report may not contain more than 10% incorrect, inaccessible, or inappropriate lines of information

Technical Interchange Meetings

Quarterly Reports and Random Sampling of database

2% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

Contractors make LAN administration (user/application) changes via a TSR ticket, and only with the approval of the EPA LAN Manager.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database

Locally administered network applications are available for Region 5 employees.

A 99% availability of all locally administered network applications must be maintained within any given month. Applications must not be unavailable for more than three (3) consecutive hours on any business day.

No deviation

Monthly Status Report

No deviation

Random sampling of system generated security reports

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

Wide Area Network (WAN) Connectivity Support (Section 5.3) 5.3.2 The contractor must Contractor actively monitors network monitor the hardware performance, identifies, tracks, and when needed, components of the network. repairs/corrects problems with no interruption of service to user.

5.3.3 The contractor must perform scheduled preventative maintenance activities

Contractor maintains Network relevant patch/operating systems revision level only as approved by EPA staff at RTP.

Equipment failures, nonavailability, or maintenance shall not interfere with operations for more than 20 minutes during normal business hours. Acceptable failure is placed at 1% No deviation

Monthly Status Reports -- and Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change Meetings Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via HEAT Database -- and Server Log Database

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

56

9.11 The contractor must provide network security monitoring.

All network systems and security logs shall be reviewed on a daily basis by the contractor.

No deviation

Contractor performs daily random security checks of the network.

No deviation

Weekly Status Report -- and Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change Meetings Weekly Status Report -- and Random Sampling of TSR and Work Requests via HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. This is a collective disincentive for all actions in this section not satisfying AQL.

Wireless LAN (WLAN) Support (Section 5.4) 5.4.2/4 The contractor must Hardware and/or software failures are maintain the WLAN devices resolved within 4 hours. (APs), and provide fixes for malfunctioned devices.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Help Desk/Hotline Desktop/ Computer User Support (Section 6) Electronic Information Technology (EIT) Remote Support for Users with Disabilities (Section 6.6) 6.6.2 The Agency EIT equipment has been Equipment manufacturer and EPA The equipment is installed and meets the equipment specifications installed and manufacturer and EPA specifications. operational in three business days after receipt of work request. Acceptable failure rate is 15% 6.6.3 Internet connectivity is established to Internet is accessible at data Internet connectivity Agency EIT equipment transfer speed supported by the should be established Internet Service Provider within two business days after contractor receipt of the work request. Acceptable failure rate is 10%

Customer survey completed by EPA employee

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Customer survey completed by EPA employee

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

57

6.6.4 Basic Hardware/Software problems with Agency EIT equipment are identified and resolved. -Major hardware/software malfunctions are identified, followed by shipment of the equipment back to Region 5 office.

The problem is resolved and the equipment is operational and meets the equipment manufacturer and EPA specification or the equipment is shipped back to the Region 5 office.

6.6.5 The Agency EIT equipment is packed and shipped to Region 5 office. The Agency EIT equipment is disconnected, disassembled and packed for shipping.

The Agency EIT equipment is uninstalled and packed so that no breakage occurs during shipment

6.1.1.1 The contractor shall respond to and resolve requests for support in the use of hardware, software, voice, applications and related systems. The contractor shall immediately assign the highest priority to problems affecting multiple users (loss of a server, router, etc.) as pre-determined by the EPA Project 6.1.4.2.2 Implementation and installation of upgrades to Regional desktop operating systems network and operating systems and shared applications. The contractor shall implement and install upgrades to Regional desktop operating systems network and operating systems and shared applications.

75% of help desk calls are resolved in less than 4 hours.

The problem is identified and resolved during the contractor's visit to the EPA employee's residence or shipped to the EPA Region 5 office when more than eight (8) hours is required. Acceptable failure rate is 5% The equipment is uninstalled and shipped to the Region 5 office within three days after contractor receipt of the work request. Acceptable failure rate is 10% No deviation, unless parts or accessories are not available.

Customer survey completed by EPA employee

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Customer survey completed by EPA employee

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

User response to customer surveys, HEAT call surveillance and user direct email

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Complete all upgrades within the time frame specified on the IMB Work Request.

Upgrades must be completed within the time frame specified on the IMB Work Request 95% of the time.

User response to customer surveys, HEAT call surveillance and user direct email

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Database Administration (Section 7) GIS Scientific and Division Specific Application Support (Section 7.3) 7.3.3.1.1 The contractor must troubleshoot Reported problems are responded interoperability issues with other Region 5 to and resolved within 4 hours of standard applications. the first encounter with the user.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee.

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via HEAT Database.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

58

7.1.4 The contractor must monitor the performance of the Oracle RDBMS and Lotus Notes databases. Virtual Server Administration Support 8.1.10.2 The contractor must perform regularly scheduled systems maintenance on the Virtual servers.

Connectivity and performance of the Oracle and Lotus Notes databases are monitored daily. Obsolete files and directories must be removed within 5 working days.

No deviation

Weekly Status Report

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted. 3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee. Acceptable failure rate is 10%

8.1.14 The contractor must monitor and optimize the performance of all Virtual servers.

Virtual servers are monitored daily.

7.4 The contractor shall provide technical support and assistance necessary to maintain the day-today operations of the current Laboratory Information Management System, Element Data System from Promium (LIMS). 7.8 The contractor shall support analytical instrument dedicated computers with analytical software which is not agency standard, when necessary. The contractor will assist with installation of instrument computers and software, as requested.

Contractor will provide and maintain weekly backups and their procedures; keep logs of work performed, problems, and errors detected

The server report may not contain more than 10% incorrect, inaccessible, or inappropriate lines of information. No deviation

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change meetings Monthly Status Report -- and Technical Inter-change meetings

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Random sampling of system generated security reports

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

The contractor support will include ensuring that agency standard software, configuration, and practices do not interfere with the operation of the analytical software. Agency software will be removed if it interferes with the primary analytical use of an instrument computer. The contractor will coordinate problem solving of software and hardware problems with the instrument vendor.

No deviation

User response to customer surveys, HEAT call surveillance and user direct email

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Microsoft Windows Servers Administration (Section 8) 8.1.10.2The contractor must Obsolete files and directories perform regularly scheduled must be removed within 5 systems maintenance on the working days. Windows servers xxxx.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee. Acceptable failure rate is 10%

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change meetings

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

59

8.1.9 The contractor must ensure that the Windows Server xxxx systems operate under the latest OS and security patches, and firmware versions.

Installation of OS, security patches, and various software packages must be completed within 4 hours.

No deviation unless approved in advance by the TM or his/her designee

8.1.14 The contractor must Windows servers xxxx are monitor and optimize the monitored daily. performance of all Windows servers xxxx. SAN Systems Administration (Section 8.2) 8.2.3 The contractor must SAN systems are monitored monitor and optimize the SAN daily. performance.

The server report may not contain more than 10% incorrect, inaccessible, or inappropriate lines of information The server report may not contain more than 5% incorrect inaccessible or inappropriate lines of information.

Random Sampling of both TSR and Work Requests via the HEAT Database -- and Technical Inter-change meetings Monthly Status Report -- and Technical Inter-change meetings Monthly Status Report

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Computer Systems and Network Security (Section 9) 9.3 The contractor shall conduct Information will be requested by the Information Security data gathering, as required, that Officer or the Information Security Specialist and be reported to them only. Contractor is not to share with anyone but the above. relates to computer and LAN/WAN security, using Agency Standard Applications, i.eBigFix, ESM, Auditcon, and any additional applications that the Agency will utilize as a standard. 9.6 The contractor shall operate, update, and maintain security related hardware, i.e., dedicated security servers, firewall, instruction detection system, and other hardware and peripherals, which the Agency utilizes for fulfilling it data gathering and analysis requirement(s). Complete all security server updates, operations, and maintenance within the time frame specified by the Security Task Manager

No deviation

Results from the data collection are accurate and reliable.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Security services must be completed within the time frame specified 95% of the time.

Monthly review of scan reports by ISO & ISS & HQ. Scans do not reveal information as expected from HQ reports. Reports are late or inaccurate

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

7.12.1 GLNPO IT Hardware Support

60

Monthly review of the hardware The Contractor shall No deviation from monthly 7.3.1.1.3GLNPO IT Hardware inventory tracking spreadsheet include a current copy reporting deadline. Inventory Tracking by the GLNPO Task Manager Spreadsheet: Contractor shall of the GLNPO Desktop during the two weeks after the maintain a spreadsheet listing all PC and Printer At least 90% of the of the GLNPO servers, desktop Inventory Tracking information fields contained in monthly deliverable report has PCs, network enabled notebook the hardware inventory been submitted. spreadsheet as an PCs, stand alone loan pool tracking spreadsheet shall be attachment to each notebook PCs, printers and other Monthly Deliverable correct. peripheral devices which are in Report. use in the GLNPO office, regardless of the network to which they connect. 7.12.2 Maintain a Technical Support E-mail Account for non-GLNPO User Support on the GLNPO External Network Review of the If the message requests Inclusion of recent 7.3.1.2.7 Contractor Response ACCOUNTHELP support ACCOUNTHELP support External network to ACCOUNTHELP Support requests in the Weekly and requests summary included in Requests: The contractor will support and the the weekly and monthly respond to all support requests problem cannot be Monthly reports. deliverable reports, by the for the GLNPO External network corrected the same At least 90% of the GLNPO Task Manager and the which are received by the business day that the GLNPO IT Security Officer. ACCOUNTHELP mail box with message was received, ACCOUNTHELP support an acknowledgement of receipt the contractor will requests shall received a respond with a response within 1 business of the message day. summary of pending actions and an expected completion date, within 1 business day of receipt of the request 7.12.3 Maintaining a Tape Backup Recovery Procedure for the GLNPO Networks: No deviation from the Review of the backup status The contractor will 7.3.3.2 Off-site storage of GLNPO Back-up Tapes: The perform daily and preparation of the daily and summary included in the weekly network backups, weekly and monthly deliverable contractor shall backup all of the weekly backups as reports, by the GLNPO Task data on the GLNPO networks to required, and will unless forced by failure of tape for weekly transfer to prepare the tapes for equipment. Variances to this Manager, the GLNPO EPA remote protected storage. The weekly pickup by the requirement must be approved LAN Administrator and the in writing by the EPA Task GLNPO IT Security Officer. contractor shall collect the tape storage vendor. backup tapes for the GLNPO Manager Preparation of back External and AA networks and prepare them for weekly pick-up tapes shall be notes in by the tape storage vendor. the weekly and monthly deliverable reports.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

61

The test Restore shall No deviation from the 7.3.3.3 Annual Test Restore to be completed by the preparation of the daily and from Back-up Tapes: The weekly network backups, Contractor shall perform at least 60th calendar day after one successful test Restore of the beginning of the unless forced by failure of backed up data on the GLNPO task, and reported in equipment, or preapproved in AA Domain and GLNPO the 60 day deliverable writing by the EPA Task External 5LAKES networks each report. manager. year. 7.12.4 Creation and Management of Accounts on the GLNPO Networks: Individual network At least 90% of Individual 7.4.1 Networks Account accounts should be network accounts should be Management: The contractor created within one business will be required to reset network created within one business day of request. day of request. passwords as they expire, the Larger numbers of verify normal account activity, disable or delete accounts no network accounts should be created longer in use and archiving their within 3 business days data, contacting new users with expiring password notices and of request, unless an account access information. alternate completion deadline is provided by the EPA Task Manager. Individual SharePoint At least 90% of Individual 7.4.1.3 Management of network accounts should be SharePoint Accounts and User accounts and/or access Profiles: The Contractor shall rights for SharePoint created within one business create and administer new sites should be created day of request. SharePoint user accounts, reset within one business day SharePoint account passwords, of request. Larger At least 90% of requests for and assist SharePoint users in the numbers of SharePoint Larger numbers of SharePoint resolution of basic SharePoint accounts or access accounts or access rights access problems. rights groups should be groups should be created created within 3 within 3 business days of business days of request, or within the alternate request, unless an completion deadline provided alternate completion by the EPA Task Manager. deadline is provided by the EPA Task Manager. 7.12.5 Software and Juniper VPN Support for the GLNPO Network Servers:

Review of test Restore status summary included in the 60 day deliverable report, by the GLNPO Task Manager and the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator.

1% of the contractor submitted invoice charge for task each month after the missed deadline will be deducted until the test Restore has been successfully completed.

Review of the account status summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager and the IT Security Officer.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

Review of the account status summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager and the GLNPO IT Security Officer.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

62

7.5 Juniper Networks Secure Access 4500 SSL VPN Support: The Contractor shall install, configure and maintain Juniper Networks Secure Access SSL VPN device on the GLNPO External network.

The Juniper device must be maintained in working order, and configured to allow secure remote access to the GLNPO External network.

All problems with remote access through the Juniper device must be resolved within 1 business day, unless due to a hardware failure of the device or other technical problem outside of the contractor's ability to resolve.

Review of the Juniper-related support requests and error reports summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager, the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator and the GLNPO IT Security Officer.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted for each week that the Juniper device is not allowing remote access to the GLNPO external network.

All problems with remote The Sharepoint sites 7.5.6 MS Sharepoint Support: access to the GLNPO The Contractor shall install, must be online and remotely accessible at SharePoint web sites must be configure and maintain the resolved within 1 business GLNPO SharePoint web sites on all times unless failure day, unless due to a hardware the GLNPO External network. is due to a major The management of SharePoint hardware problem failure of the device or other accounts and access rights group which is outside of the technical problem outside of the contractor's ability to described previously is a primary contractor's ability to requirement of this task. resolve. resolve. 7.12.6 Implementation and Assessment of GLNPO Networks' Security No deviation from this 7.7 Weekly Updates of Network All servers on the GLNPO networks must requirement unless due to a Security Patches and Antibe updated with hardware failure of the device virus Patterns: Contractor shall update the servers and Windows updates, or other technical problem government owned PCs which software patches, outside of the contractor's security patches and ability to resolve. connect to the GLNPO External 5LAKES network with Windows anti-virus patterns, at updates, software patches, least once per week. security patches and anti-virus patterns, at least once per week when the equipment is in use on the network. No deviation from this 7.8 Weekly Reboot of External All servers on the GLNPO networks must requirement unless due to a Network Servers to Activate Security Updates: The be rebooted at least failure of the automated Contractor shall reboot all of the once per week, unless a weekend reboot system, in servers in the GLNPO External deviation in the which case the servers must be network on a weekly basis, requirement is provided manually rebooted within the unless a different schedule is in writing by the EPA following 2 business days. A provided to the contractor as a Task Manager. deviation in this deadline Technical Direction by the requirement may be provided GLNPO EPA Task Manager in writing by the EPA Task after the start of the task. Manager.

Review of the support requests and error report summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager and the GLNPO IT Security Officer.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted for each week that the GLNPO SharePoint web sites are not available for remote access to the GLNPO external network.

Review of the weekly server updates report summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager, the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator and the GLNPO IT Security Officer.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted for each additional week that active servers on the GLNPO External and ship networks have not been updated.

Review of the weekly server reboot status report summary included in the weekly and monthly deliverable reports, by the GLNPO Task Manager and the GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted for each additional week that active servers on the GLNPO External and ship networks have not been rebooted, unless a deviation in the deadline requirement was be provided in writing by the EPA Task Manager. 63

7.12.7 Documenting the GLNPO Networks ­ Maintaining Network Diagrams and Server Change Logs Review of the contents of the Only minor errors in the The confidential 7.8.2 GLNPO Monthly monthly confidential report by content of the network network diagrams and Networks Security Diagrams diagrams, electrical tables and the GLNPO Task Manager, the monthly reports must and Confidential Monthly GLNPO EPA LAN Reports: The monthly contain the information server logs will be accepted. Administrator and the GLNPO confidential networks' diagrams described. No deviation from the monthly IT Security Officer. shall document the servers, . Uninterruptible Power Supplies deadline for this reporting The confidential (UPS) hubs, routers, switches monthly reports must requirement. and peripherals on the networks, be provided by the including their model number, monthly submission S/N, EPA Custody Decal number deadline. (if one exists), the EPA reference names for the servers, and a copy of the office floor plan which shows the location of the external network jacks. This confidential report will include copies of the server-change log file entries for each network... 7.12.8 Networks Security: Implementation, Maintenance, Evaluation and Reporting: 100% of critical Review of additional network The contractor shall 7.9.1.6 Network Vulnerability vulnerability reports prepared vulnerabilities, and at least Analysis: Assessments, Reports address the problems 10 days after the initial reports described, by installing 90% of non-critical and Contractor Response to are provided to the contractor Reported Deficiencies: Several updates and adjusting vulnerabilities must be for resolution of problems. The times each year the GLNPO settings, within 10 resolved within 10 days of business days of receipt receipt of the report, unless an updated vulnerability reports Information Security Officer will be evaluated by the (ISO) will run network of the report, unless an extension is approved in writing by the Task manager. GLNPO Task Manager, the vulnerability tests of the network, extension is approved GLNPO EPA LAN using Bindview, BigFix, Tenable in writing by the Task Administrator and the GLNPO Nessus or other similar network manager. IT Security Officer. security analysis tools... The results of the network scans will be provided to the contractor for corrective action. The contractor shall address the problems described, by installing updates and adjusting settings, within 10 business days of receipt of the reports... 7.12.9 Contractor Attendance at the Annual EPA IT Security Conference

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

3% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted.

64

7.11.1 Contractor Attendance at Security Conference Sessions: The annual EPA IT Security and LAN Operations conference offers multiple concurrent tracks and speakers. The contractor may attend whichever information sessions best support Task 7 requirements. The contractor must attend the first and final sessions of each conference day, as well as individual sessions throughout the day. At the end of the conference the contractor shall provide the list of all sessions which they attended to the EPA Task Manager, and include the same information in that month's deliverable report.

The contractor shall attend conference sessions throughout the entire work day during which sessions are offered and the contractor is in work status. The EPA Task Manager may approve the contractor's attendance at the vendors' display area in lieu of attendance at one of the conference sessions during each day of the conference. A list of all the sessions attended by the contractor must be submitted to the EPA Task Manager within 5 business days of the contractors return from the conference.

No deviation in session attendance accepted unless due to illness or other unforeseen accidents, or approved in writing by the EPA Task Manager. No deviation in submission of list of sessions attended within 5 business days of the contractors return from the conference.

Reviewed by EPA Task Manager.

1% of the contractor submitted monthly invoice charge for task will be deducted for missed conference sessions during the contractor's normal workday, unless a variation in the attendance requirement has been waived by the EPA Task Manager due to due to illness or other unforeseen accidents.

65

16. DELIVERABLES
PWS Task Description # of Due Date (calendar days) and Deliver To Copi es 1 Within 30 Days after Contract Awarded, 1 Within 30 Days after Contract Award 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 NLT 45 Days after Contract Award Weekly Report Update as Changed Update as Changed Within 30 Days after Contract Award Before contract can be awarded, Listing provided Monthly. By Close of Business (COB) on the First Friday of the Month,

1.3 1.5.7.2 1.6.2.2 1.6.3 4.2.4 4.3.3 4.4 5.1.8 5.2.7 5.3.4 5.1, 5.2 7.1.2.1 7.4.2 5.2.9 6.4.1.4 5.2.3 5.2.3 6.1.1.3 6.4.3.5

Quality Control Plan Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) Work Plan Background Check & Confidential Agreements Certifications Region 5's Telephone Inventory Report Ordering Levels and Configurations for NOC Equipment Regional Telephone and VoIP Information Backup Procedure Documentation Statistical Operations Data Database of all LAN Computer Room Equipment BackUp Report

Computerized Inventory System of all Computer Supplies Monthly Inventory Report Weekly Tape Transport Report Tape Transport Activity Help Desk Procedures Monthly Printer/MFD Report The contractor shall submit a Printer/MFD report. The report shall consist of a list of printers/MFD that includes Division, location, printer make, model, and serial number. Included are statistics of page usages from each Quarterly Preventative Maintenance Report for MFD & Printers Procedure for Backup and Recovery of the Oracle and Lotus Notes Data Reports of Oracle and Lotus Notes databases performance Region 5 Microsoft Windows servers standard configuration Region 5 Virtual Server Configuration Schematics and Technical Diagrams to Document the Regional SAN Systems Develop, Update, and Maintain an Electronic Database of SAN Systems Server Log Documentation and Reports

2 3 3 3 4 2

Update as Changed Monthly. Weekly notice. Monthly Report. 30 Days after Contract Award. Monthly Report.

6.4.2.1 7.1.2.1 7.1.4.2 8.1.15 8.1.15 8.2.4 8.2.5 9.5

3 3 4 4 4 3 3 2

1st Report Due 30 calendar Days after Contract Award, Then Quarterly. 30 calendar Days after Contract Award, Monthly. Within a week of becoming operational. Within 5 days of becoming operational. 30 calendar days after contract award, update as changed. Initial development 30 days after contract award, update as changed, monthly report. Documentation as changed and daily reports.

66

PWS Task

Description

6.1.10

4.2.1

5.2.11.6

4.2.1

Daily Management Report: The contractor shall submit a Daily Management Report. The daily management report shall consist of information from daily statistics of 3Help call logging activities created by the contractor Site Manager, Assistant Site Manager and 3Help Desk Manager and/or project managers. The daily statistics are recorded onto a spreadsheet complied into a single report with a single format. Weekly Status Report - Voice The contractor shall submit a Weekly Status Report (Voice). The report shall consist of information from individual reports on "work-in-progress" created by the contractor Site Manager, Telecom Manager, Assistant Site Manager, 3 HELP Manager and/or project managers. The above contractor managers written narratives are complied into a single report with a single format. Weekly Status Report - Data The contractor shall submit a Weekly Status Report (Data). The report shall consist of information from individual reports on "work-in-progress" created by the contractor's Site Manager, Assistant Site Manager, 3 HELP Manager and/or project managers. The above contractor managers written narratives are complied into a single report with a single format. Monthly Report R5 - Voice The contractor shall submit a Monthly Report (Voice). The report is the summary of work completed as reported by the contractor Site Manager, Telecom Manager, Assistant Site Manager, 3 HELP Manager, and/or project managers. The above contractor managers statistical data and written narratives are compiled into a single report with a single format.

# of Copi es 4

Due Date (calendar days) and Deliver To

5

7

5

67

PWS Task

Description

10.8.8.3

Monthly Report R5 - Data The contractor shall submit a Monthly Report (Data). The report is the summary of work completed as reported by the contractor Site Manager, Assistant Site Manager, 3 HELP Manager, NOC Operator and/or project managers. The above contractor managers statistical data and written narratives are complied into a single report with a single format. Quarterly Reports The contractor shall submit a Quarterly Report. The Quarterly Report is a compilation of the performance statistics of 3HELP telephone data, and telecommunications staff data. The numeric data is reported in the form of charts and graphs to provide visual effects of trends for the quantity and quality of the work performed. Annual Reports The contractor shall submit an Annual Report. The annual report is a compilation of the performance statistics of 3HELP telephone data, and telecommunications staff data. The contractor shall submit the numerical data in the form of charts and graphs to provide visual effects of trends for the quantity and quality of the work performed. Annual Report on Environmental Preferable Practices: The contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer and Program Officer an annual report detailing the environmental preferable activities accomplished or purchases made with the previous 12 month period. Test Restore of backup tapes day of the POP PC Software License Tracking Spreadsheet day monthly reports Computer Software Audit Spreadsheet

# of Copi es 3

Due Date (calendar days) and Deliver To

3

3

2

2

10.3.2 10.8.12.2

2 2

At least one successful test restore of backup annually, with verification to be provided with the 60 day deliverable report. Submit in quarterly report Submit in quarterly report

68

PWS Task

Description

10.8.9.2

7

Weekly Status Report - GLNPO The contractor shall submit a Weekly Status Report (GLNPO). The report shall consist of information from individual reports on "work-inprogress" created by the Assistant Site Manager. The above contractor managers written narratives are complied into a single report with a single format by the contractor's Assistant Site Manager. GLNPO - Monthly Deliverable Report ­Task 7 IT Hardware Inventory Spreadsheet Tape backups verification and status SharePoint accounts summary Weekly server security updates Weekly reboot of network servers Weekly performance monitoring status Monthly network analysis reports Weekly HEAT reports Weekly ACCOUNTHELP reports

# of Copi es 2

Due Date (calendar days) and Deliver To

2

First work day of each month. Deliver the report to Susan Woestman (PO) and John Piper(TM).

7.3.1.1.3 7.3.3.2 7.4.1.3 7.7 7.8 7.8.1 7.8.2 7.9.4 7.9.5

Confidential Monthly Deliverable Report including 7.8.2.1 7.8.2.2 7.8.2.2 Copy of server change logs Monthly confidential network diagrams Monthly confidential Bindview report

1

First work day of each month, delivery as an attachment in an encrypted e-mail and provide two (2) printed copies in a sealed envelope marked "Confidential" to the GLNPO TM Susan Woestman (PO), John Piper (TM), Pranas Pranckevicius (GLNPO IT Security Officer), Barry Manne (GLNPO EPA LAN Administrator), and Floyd O'Hara (EPA R5 IT Security Officer).

69

17.0 EPA KEY STAFF To be provided at contract award.

70

APPENDIX A EXPERTISE/CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED EXPERTISE/CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED- The contractor shall follow up and keep current all employees certifications and expertise as described below. Pursuant to all EPA Network/Software system changes the contractor has 60 days to provide the required certification to the Project Officer. On-Site Manager ­ Personnel assigned shall: ˇ Have at least 5 years experience in managing IT support staff of more than 10 people ˇ Have ITIL certification and ISO 9000 ˇ Has developed and used skills in Project Management in supervising IT support staff projects. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Contract Manager located on site - Supervises all IT support staff and is first contact for the Project Officer - Responsible for work performed and completed in IT projects and work requests presented under contract Voice Telecommunications - Personnel assigned shall be: ˇ Have at least 2 years of experience in system administration of T-1 and ISDN services ˇ Must be trained or have the skill set required for working with VOIP (Voice Over IP) Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Installs and services all telephone equipment on site - Works with managed VoIP service provider - Understands and is able to perform telecommunication activities outlined in the PWS. Network Systems Administrators - Personnel assigned shall have ˇ Linux Systems Administrators shall have at least 5 years demonstrated work experience, not as student or teacher's assistant in an educational environment. Work experience shall demonstrate the ability to harness a variety of and Linux operating systems into a contiguous networked system of different platforms. They shall also possess the skills necessary to design install and maintain Microsoft and Linux based web servers and proxy servers. They shall be capable of designing and creating a least privilege security posture for all Microsoft and Linux based operation systems. ˇ Network/Network Security Administrator/management specialist shall have at least 3 years demonstrated experience in network administration. They shall have extensive knowledge in the installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and management of Cisco hardware (routers, switches, firewalls, remote access server, etc.), Internet Operating Systems (IOS), Management Systems and security systems (TACACS). They shall possess a working knowledge for the setup and deployment of ISDN router and modems for remote access and intrusion detection systems. They shall possess functional knowledge of all network operating systems (Microsoft, Linux, DOS) and the security mechanisms employed by these operating systems ˇ All administrators shall have hands on work experience with expertise in network security, the ability to read systems logs, and identify ambiguities. Administrators shall

71

have work experience and the ability to identify systems (O/S, applications, hacks, etc.) security issues and resolve them with minimal impact to the user community. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Troubleshoots server problems and very knowledgeable in Windows Operating Systems - Handles server configurations and installations - Works with Cisco hardware (routers, switches, firewalls, remote access server, etc.), Internet Operating Systems (IOS), Management Systems and security systems (TACACS) - Monitors the NOC systems , backups and servers regularly HELP DESK SUPPORT - Assigned personnel shall have: ˇ A minimum of 3 years computer/hardware/software troubleshooting experience and help desk support experience. ˇ Have at least 3 years hands-on work experience of Microsoft Windows operating platforms. ˇ Have at least 3 years hands-on work experience of Microsoft Office Suite Application and Word Perfect software. ˇ Have at least 3 years hands-on work experience of Lotus Notes application and software. ˇ Have at least 3 years Windows XP/Windows 7 image development using Ghost software or equivalent software. Work experience shall show Windows image creation in a network environment. ˇ Demonstrate above average verbal, interpersonal and written communication skills ˇ Demonstrated experience with Windows X Operating Systems in a SAN environment. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Answers 3-Help User Support Help line and provides first line computer support. - Advances problem calls to second line support and sets up tickets for Technician visits - Have thorough knowledge of all Region standard software and most databases to provide most common solutions ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT - Assigned personnel shall have: ˇ At least 3 years of hands-on experience with AT software particularly, Magic, Zoomtext, Dragon Naturally Speaking, Jaws, Openbook, and Interface programs, such as, Jawbones. ˇ Demonstrate their experience by troubleshooting application problems with Regional computer configurations and peripherals. ˇ Have at least 3 years Windows XP/Windows 7 experience on specialized configurations that some of the EIT will require. ˇ Have at least 3 years of hands-on experience connecting, maintaining and troubleshooting EIT equipment, such as keyboards, roller/rollerball mice, pointpads, monitor arms, printers, CCTVs, magnifiers, headsets, etc Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Installs and troubleshoots assistive technology hardware and software. - Able to assist user with usage and management of the hardware or software.

72

BUSINESS APPLICATION SUPPORT: Assigned personnel shall have: ˇ At least 3 years of specialized system analyst experience in system design for Oracle, Visual Basic, Web Services, and Lotus Domino. ˇ Two years experience in XML, Java, Cold Fusion, .Net, ASP, ESRI's ArcGIS, and SDE, Oracle Spatial, and Lotus Notes are required ˇ Demonstration of experience in using the above mentioned applications ˇ Be certified (OCP) for Oracle version 9 or higher ˇ All contractors shall have two years experience working with Microsoft Office Suite. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Has an understanding of most business applications that will allow for troubleshooting installations and adjust configurations to user's desktops DATABASE ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT: ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 3 years of Oracle database and Lotus Notes administration experience, plus Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) certification ˇ (Oracle 10g or higher), and Certified Lotus Professional (CLP) Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Administers and maintains Oracle databases - Will be called on to troubleshoot or support user desktops MS WINDOWS SERVERS - ADMINISTRATION AND SAN SYSTEMS SUPPORT: ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated experience in administering a Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 Server networked environment consisting of 10 or more servers operating a variety of networked applications. Work experience shall demonstrate the ability to install, configure, troubleshoot, and identify ambiguities, and secure the servers. He/she shall have a current certification as a Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE.). ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated experience in administering a Virtual Server networked environment consisting of 10 or more servers operating a variety of networked applications. Work experience shall demonstrate the ability to install, configure, troubleshoot, and identify ambiguities, and secure the servers. He/she shall have a current certification VCP (VMware Certified Professional). ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated experience in administering (EMC/DELL) SAN Systems. Work experience shall demonstrate the ability to install, configure, troubleshoot, identify ambiguities, and secure the SAN systems. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Installs, configures, troubleshoots, identify ambiguities, and secure the servers - Monitors and supports A SAN server system - Assists with Active Directory management

73

WIRELESS LAN (WLAN) SUPPORT: ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 3 years of wireless network administration experience. He/she shall have obtained Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certification within 12 months prior to starting work under this task. ˇ The support of the Wireless requirements shall be performed by an individual who has hands-on knowledge/expertise/experience in managing, implementing, and securing Wireless Networks. This individual also shall have at the minimum, a Cisco Wireless LAN Support Specialist certification, or Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) certification. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Manages wireless usage in Region - Support user usage of wireless activity - Maintains laptops configured for this usage REGIONAL IT SECURITY SUPPORT: ˇ Assigned personnel shall have a CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) Certification or equivalent. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated experience in several Operating Systems, i.e. Windows (XP/2003/2008/ Windows 7), Linux. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 5 years of demonstrated experience in multiple Hardware platforms, i.e. Desktops, Servers, Storage Area Networks, Backup Systems, and Laptop. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 5 years of demonstrated experience in Auditing and Patch Management Applications, i.e. Bindview, BigFix, Belarc, and other similar Applications. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated knowledge in several Federal Compliance guidelines, i.e. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and other similar guidelines and publications. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 3 years of demonstrated knowledge in Computer Forensics and related tools and Applications. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 5 years of demonstrated experience in Networking; i.e. Topology, Layers, TCP/IP, and troubleshooting and its Security Implications. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 5 years of demonstrated experience in administering a Firewall, Intrusion Detection Systems, Anti Spam and AntiVirus Systems. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least three (3) years of demonstrated knowledge of Wireless LAN (WLAN) and its security implications. ˇ Assigned personnel shall have at least 5 years of demonstrated knowledge of several CISCO Networking products, i.e. Routers and switches. Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Works closely with the Regional Network Security on Security tasks - Monitors prescribed instances in computer and server activity - Able to configure systems used in Security monitoring or other scanning tools
74

CHICAGO REGIONAL LABORATORY (CRL) SUPPORT: Assigned personnel shall have 4 years of Oracle version 9 or higher experience with an Oracle Certified Professional certification and 4 years of Microsoft Office experience with a Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE.) certification. The Contractor is responsible for providing personnel with working expertise in: Oracle Server (version 9 or higher). PowerBuilder Microsoft Visual C++ Bar-code Readers and Technology Position Description includes but not all inclusive to: - Local Area Network Administration ­ works with server maintenance - Laboratory Automation ­ works with laboratory computers connected to a network - Office Automation ­ works with user desktop support - Database Management ­ troubleshoots and maintains LIMS GLNPO TRAINING REQUIREMENTS (TASK 7) The EPA must ensure that at least one or more of the Contractors working on Task 7 has either successfully completed commercial training within 36 months prior to beginning work on this task for some of the software listed in the GLNPO Software listing (Appendix B of PWS), or in lieu of training certification can document at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area within the past 5 years. Proof of completion of a training requirement will be a copy of the Contractor's certificate of successful completion of the training which was provided by the training vendor, or other documentation provided by the training vendor which certifies the successful completion of the training. Proof of work experience in the subject area may be documented by written statements of job descriptions from prior employers. ISS (INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER) TRAINING CERTIFICATION OR WORK RELATED EXPERIENCE: At least one contractor working on this Task shall have either a minimum training requirement for the IIS software, or document at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on ISS which is offered by a commercial software training vendor. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 2 full training days. The Contractor shall provide the GLNPO TM with proof, on or before the 30th day after the start date of this task, that at least one Contractor on the task has successfully completed the ISS training requirement before the 30th day after the start of the task. SHAREPOINT TRAINING CERTIFICATION: At least one contractor working on this Task shall have a minimum training requirement for the SharePoint software. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on SharePoint which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or

75

by documenting at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 2 full training days. The Contractor shall provide the GLNPO TM with proof, on or before the 30th day after the start date of this task, that at least one Contractor working on the task has successfully completed the SharePoint training requirement. CHECKPOINT FIREWALL TRAINING CERTIFICATION: At least one contractor on this Task shall have a minimum training requirement for the CheckPoint software. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on CheckPoint which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or by documenting at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 2 full training days. The Contractor shall provide the GLNPO TM with proof, on or before the 30th day after the start date of this task, that at least one Contractor on the task has successfully completed the CheckPoint training requirement. If the Contractor determines that one or more of the training requirement can not be completed by the deadlines provided, the contractor task leader shall notify the GLNPO TM in writing verifying that the training requirement cannot be completed by the 30th day of the task. These training requirements will not be waived, but the due date(s) may be extended by the Contracting Officer if the Contractor's justification for missing a certification deadline is sufficient for the GLNPO TM to request a Modification to the Statement of Work. JUNIPER NETWORKS SECURE ACCESS SSL VPN: At least one contractor on this Task shall have a minimum training requirement for the Juniper VPN software. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on Juniper Networks which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or by documenting at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 2 full training days. MS SQL SERVER: At least one contractor on this Task shall have a minimum training requirement for the MS SQL software. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on MS SQL which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or by documenting at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area.. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 2 full training days. Windows 2008 Enterprise Release 2 NOS At least two contractors supporting this task shall have received a MS Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) certification for the Windows 2008 network operating system

76

within 60 days after the start of this task. Assigned personnel shall also have at least three (3) years of demonstrated experience in administering a Microsoft Windows Server networked environment consisting of 5 or more servers operating a variety of networked applications. Redhat Linux NOS At least two contractors supporting this task shall be able to Administer a Redhat Linux NOS. The training requirement will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 36 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom training on the Administration of Redhat Linux which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or by documenting at least three (3) years of work experience in the subject area. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators and must require attendance in a classroom setting for a minimum of 3 full training days. VMware VSphere 4 At least one contractor on this Task shall have a minimum training requirement for the VMware VSphere network virtualization software. The training will be met by the satisfactory completion, within the 24 months prior to the 30th day of the task, of any formal classroom or online training on VMware VSphere which is offered by a commercial software training vendor, or by documenting at least two (2) years of work experience in the subject area. The training class must be intended for technical IT professionals or for LAN Administrators. The Contractor shall provide the GLNPO TM with proof, on or before the 30th day after the start date of this task, that at least one Contractor on the task has successfully completed the VMware training.

77

APPENDIX B HARDWARE/SOFTWARE ENVIRONMENT AND GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE PROPERTY INVENTORY
Below is a current listing of workstation equipment used by staff. This Region contains >1500 users and uses >2000 computers. Dell Laptop Computers Latitude C840 Latitude D410 Latitude D420 Latitude D430 Latitude D505 Latitude D610 Latitude D620 Latitude D810 Latitude D820 Latitude E4200 Latitude E4300 Latitude E4310 Latitude E5410 Latitude E5500 Latitude E6400 Latitude E6410 Latitude E6500 Latitude E6510 Precision M90 Precision M4400 Dell Desktop Computers Optiplex 620 Optiplex 745 Optiplex 755 Optiplex 780 Optiplex 960 Optiplex 980 Precision 380 Precision 390 Precision 490 Precision 530 MT Preicision 650 Precision 670 Precision 690 Precision T3400 PowerEdge 1950 PowerEdge 2650 PowerEdge 2850 PowerEdge 2900 PowerEdge 2950 PowerEdge 6650 PowerEdge R710 PowerEdge R900 PowerEdge RC620 PowerEdge RC720 Managed Print Service Multifunctional Devices (MFD's) Xerox WorkCentre Pro 275 WorkCentre 4150 Copier/Printer 4595 WorkCentre 7345 WorkCentre 7665 Phaser 8560 Phaser 8560 DN Phaser 8560 MF

Other Printers Cannon MP970 Dell Laser 1320C Epson R800 Stylus Photo R1900 HP LaserJet 1022 LaserJet 1200 LaserJet 1320 LaserJet 2300D OfficeJet Pro 5610 All-in-One OfficeJet Pro 7210 All-in-One OfficeJet Pro 7310 All-in-One OfficeJet Pro 7410 All-in-One OfficeJet Pro L7780 OfficeJet Pro 8550 Wireless All in One Lexmark T 640

Workstation Software ­ - OS Windows XP SP3 or higher - MS Office 2007 professional or greater - Internet Explorer 7 or higher - Lotus Notes Email 8.5.2 or higher - Cisco IP/TV Viewer 5.2.7 or higher -DynaComm Connectivity Series 8 - Adobe Reader 9 - Oracle Client 10g

-Esri Arc View and GIS products - Arcview Spatial Analyst - Arcview Image Analysis - Adobe Professional 8 or higher - Dragon NaturallySpeaking 9 or higher

78

Below is a current listing of server/network equipment used by our Region for application and file storage.
Oracle Software Version - 10G and 11G Server Equipment - Dell PowerEdge 6650, Dell R900, PowerEdge 2950 and PowerEdge 2850 Lotus Notes Software Version - Domino 8.5.2, Servers Equipment ­ PowerEdge 2950, PowerEdge 2850 and PowerEdge 2650 Backup Servers (CommVault) Software version ­ CommVault Ver. 9.0 Server Equipment - PowerEdge 2950, R900, Powervault NX3100, PowerVault MD1000 Web Servers Software version - IIS 6.0, IIS 7.0, Apache Tomkat, and Coldfusion Servers Equipment - PowerEdge 2650 andPowerEdge 6650 Fax Server Software version - Streem Center Server Equipement - PowerEdge 2950 ESX host Servers Software version - ESX 4.0, ESX 4.1 Servers Equipment - PowerEdge 2950 Video-on-demand Servers Software Version - Vbrick Server Equipment - PowerEdge 1950, PowerEdge 710 Security Servers Software Version - BigFix 7.2.5 Server Equipment - PowerEdge 710 Agency / Regional Application Servers Software version ­ Server Equipment - PowerEdge 2950 and PowerEdge 2650 VMware Infrastructure Software Version:- Vsphere Software Equipment - Virtual Machines

Network tools and Software currently used-Network Sniffer (Protocol Analyzer) Microsoft applet Performance Monitor (PMon) Big Fix (Software distribution / Inventory tracking) Forescout (Network device detection tool) Vmware Tools Cisco Works Wireshark Bellmange (Inventory tracking)

Support Help Desk Sample -Information is an example of support calls requests. Calls may vary with user activity or updates to user desktops. Calls may also be effected by Agency activity.

Example of Support ticket for one month -- 1745 Call Type % of Total 18.04% Account Maintenance 5.38% Hardware 23.42% Lotus Notes 4.11% Network 15.19% Printer/Printing Issues 23.42% Software 6.65% Telecom 0.95% Query 2.84% Other

79

APPENDIX C REGION 5 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES CONTRACT WORK REQUEST FORM

CONTRACT NUMBER:

WORK REQUEST NO.

Work Request Title:

Brief Description of Work to be performed:

Expected Deliverables/Accomplishments:

Acceptance Criteria:

Start/End Time: ____________________

Deliver output to:

ORIGINATOR OF WORK REQUEST -DATE OF REQUEST

U.S. EPA PROJECT OFFICER/ALTERNATE(S) AND DATE

CONTRACTOR ON-SITE MANAGER/DESIGNEE AND DATE

80

APPENDIX D UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, REGION 5 TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE REQUEST FORM

81

APPENDIX E CUSTOMER SERVICE SURVEY Region 5 Support (3-HELP) is committed to providing our customers with excellent technical service. According to our records, you recently contacted 3-HELP for assistance. Since you are the most valuable resource in evaluating these services, we ask that you take a few moments to rate our customer service process. All surveys are reviewed by the Project Officer. Click on Reply With History above prior to editing survey Customer: (EPA Employee E-mail ID) Division: IMB Call Number: 77420 Date Opened: M/D/YR Date Closed: M/D/YR Call Opened By: (Contractor Employee) Call Resolved By: (Contractor Employee) Call Type: Telecom Call Description: Provide A/V support... We appreciate your feedback as it relates to the specific call described above. Please rate each item by clicking on the appropriate choice. For Lotus Notes Mail users: Please enter the ratings and any comments you may have. Click to select your choice. 1) Rate your overall satisfaction with the service you received on this call: COMMENTS: 2) Rate the customer service process: (a) (b) (c) (d) speed with which you connected with a representative: degree of politeness and courtesy: level of knowledge about your problem/inquiry: timeliness of problem resolution:

COMMENTS: 3) Rate the technician: (a) level of knowledge about your problem/inquiry: (b) ability of technician to resolve your problem : (c) degree of politeness and courtesy: COMMENTS:

82

APPENDIX F AGENCY PERSONAL VERIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL OCTOBER 2006 Background: Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), signed on August 27, 2004, requires a Government-wide, common identification standard for all Federal and contractor employees requiring physical access to Federally controlled facilities and/or logical access to Federally controlled information systems. The goals of HSPD-12 are to enhance safety and security, increase Government efficiency, reduce identity fraud, and protect personal privacy. HSPD-12 requires that the common identification be: (a) issued based on sound criteria for verifying an individual employee's identity; (b) strongly resistant to identity fraud, tampering, counterfeiting, and terrorist exploitation; (c) rapidly authenticated electronically; and (d) issued by providers whose reliability has been established by an official accreditation process. HSPD-12 and its common identification standard require personal identity verification (PIV), background investigations, and suitability determinations for all affected contractor and subcontractor personnel. In accordance with FAR clause 52.204-9, Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel, contractors and subcontractors must comply with EPA=s master plan for implementing HSPD-12. a) Contractor Requirements for Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (including subcontractors) Contractor Employees Requiring Access to EPA facilities or EPA Information Systems for at Least 24 Hours a Week for at Least 6 Months: All individual contractor employees whose work under the contract requires on-site access to an EPA controlled facility or logical access to an EPA information system for at least 24 hours a week for at least 6 months a year, will be required to undergo a background investigation in order to receive an EPA Personnel Access and Security System (EPASS) badge. To begin the PIV process, the contractor should submit to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) within ten (10) days of contract award or contract modification with this Attachment to Work Statement Agency Personal Verification Procedures for Contractor Personnel, the following information in electronic format via secure means using the HSPD-12 Contractor Template found at http://epa.gov/oam/ . The template was developed to assist in the transmission of the required contractor employee information in a uniform format. The template also contains drop down menus when entering data in various data cells. Specifically the 8 data elements: Employee Type, Program Office, Work City and State, Birth State, Birth Country, Citizenship, Previous Investigation and Investigative Agency contain drop down menus. Contract number; Contract expiration date;

83

Name, address, and phone number of the Contractor Program Manager point of contact; Name, date of birth, place of birth (city, state, country), and Social Security Number for all contractor employees identified above. (NOTE: This information must be protected at all times, including during transmission, according to the requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974; see http://www.epa.gov/privacy/) Employee Type, Position, Email address, Program Office, Work City and State, An indication of which contractor employees are foreign nationals; Name of each contractor employee claiming to have a previous, favorably adjudicated Federal background investigation on record, and the name of the Federal Agency that required the investigation, and the completion date. The contract-level COR will upload this information to the Office of Administrative Services Information System (OASIS) personnel security database. After submission of the preliminary information, the contractor will be notified by the contract-level COR or PSB when to begin providing all information on Standard Form (SF) 85P, Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions, and submit the form electronically to PSB via the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM's) Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) system. Instructions for using e-QIP, filling out, and submitting the SF 85P on-line, can be found at http://www.opm.gov/e-qip/ As part of the investigative and EPASS badging processes, contractor employees must be fingerprinted, photographed and provide two forms of identification, at a time and location specified by the COR. These fingerprints will be sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for processing. Contractor employees with a favorably adjudicated Federal background investigation at the National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) level or above, completed within the past 5 years and verified by EPA, do not require an additional investigation unless one is requested by the Contracting Officer (CO) or Contract-level Contracting Officer Representative (COR). These employees must still be fingerprinted at a time and location specified by the COR. In order to prevent any interruption of contractor services pending the completion of the OPM background investigation, the Office of Administrative Services (OAS) Security Management Division (SMD) has procedures in place to issue temporary or provisional badges. When reporting in person, as directed by the contract-level COR, contractor employees must provide two forms of original identity source documents from the lists on Form I-9, OMB No.1615-0047, Employment Eligibility Verification (available at http://www.formi9.com/i-9.pdf ) .At least one document shall be a valid State or Federal Government-issued picture identification. Contractor Employees Requiring EPA Access for Less than 24 Hours a Week for 6 Months: These contractor employees may be subject to the above requirements, and may have limited and controlled access to facilities and information systems.

84

Foreign National Contractor Employees: To be eligible to work on-site at an EPA controlled facility or to access EPA information systems, a foreign national contractor employee must have been admitted to the U.S. on an Immigrant Visa or a NonImmigrant Work Authorization Visa. Foreign nationals requiring access to an EPA controlled facility or EPA information system for at least 24 hours a week for at least 6 months a year must meet the above requirements for an EPASS badge, and in addition: In the Continuation Space on the SF 85P, provide the visa number, issuance location, and issuance date for the visa used for entry to the U.S; When presenting two identification source documents, as described above, provide at least one from List A on Form 1-9. When determining a foreign national contractor employee's eligibility for an EPASS badge, EPA will consider the type of visa presented (immigrant vs. non-immigrant) and the reciprocity agreement between the U.S. and the individual's country of origin. These considerations are in addition to the red flag issues listed below. Screening of the SF 85P: Information contained on the SF 85P may demonstrate that a contractor employee is not suitable to be given access to EPA facilities or information systems. PSB will screen information entered on the SF 85P prior to OPM initiating the background investigation. For individuals with admitted, derogatory information, issuance of an EPASS badge may be delayed pending further EPA review. Contractors are responsible for providing qualified personnel in accordance with requirements stated elsewhere in this contract. Contractors will only be notified by the COR if any contractor employee is found unsuitable to perform as a result of a background investigation, and must be immediately replaced by the contractor. The following are possible "red flags": Employment - Having been fired from a previous job, or having left under unfavorable circumstances within the past 7 years (Question 12 on the SF 85P); Selective Service - Failure to register with the Selective Service System; this applies to male applicants born after December 31, 1959 (Question 17 on the SF 85P); Police Records - Within the past 7 years, any arrest, charge, or conviction that has been upheld for violent or dangerous behavior or a pattern of arrests that demonstrates disregard for the law (Question 20 on the SF 85P); Illegal Drugs - Illegal use within the previous year, or drug manufacture or other involvement for profit within the past 7 years (Question 21 on the SF 85P). b) Returning Badges. The contractor is responsible for ensuring that all badges are returned to the COR at the conclusion of the contract or when contractor on-site services are no longer required, or when an individual contractor employee leaves. c) Subcontracts. These requirements must be incorporated into all subcontracts wherein employees work under the subcontract requires physical access to an EPA controlled facility or logical access to an EPA information system for 6 months or longer. d) Appeals. Contractors have the right to appeal, in writing to the COR, a determination to deny or revoke a badge. If the COR believes an appeal is justified, he/she will forward

85

it to: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Personnel Security Branch (Mail Code 3206M) 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 PSBs decision on behalf of the Agency will be final and not subject to further appeal. e) Definitions "EPA Information System" means an information system [44 U.S.C. 3502(8)] used or operated by EPA, or a contractor of EPA or other organization on behalf of the Agency. "EPA Controlled Facilities" means: EPA or Federally-owned buildings or leased space, whether for single or multi-tenant occupancy, and its grounds and approaches, all or any portion of which are under the jurisdiction, custody or control of the Agency; EPA or Federally controlled commercial space shared with non-government tenants. For example, if a department or agency leased the 10th floor of a commercial building, the Directive applies to the 10th floor only; Government-owned contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories; The term does not apply to educational institutions that conduct activities on behalf of departments or the agency or at which Federal Employees are hosted unless specifically designated as such by the sponsoring department or agency. Foreign National means an individual who is not a United States citizen

86

