SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

1
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

2
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

BPD-CFP-11-CI-0005
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

06/13/2011

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

JACOB OBERLIN
CODE

07/01/2011 1400 ET BPD-JOBERLIN
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

9. ISSUED BY

Bureau of the Public Debt Division of Procurement Avery 5F 200 Third Street Attn: J. Oberlin Parkersburg WV 26101
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X UNRESTRICTED OR

SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS

% FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS SOLE SOURCE

NAICS:

511210

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.00
13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

8(A)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

The Bureau of the Public Debt on behalf of the Department of the Treasury/Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is issuing this combined synopsis/solicitation for a contractor to provide a Matter Management Software (MMS) solution, and related services, in accordance with the Performance Work Statement(PWS). It is anticipated that this solicitation will result in a single award indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract with a base
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

TAMMIE S. JOHNSON
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

2
24. AMOUNT

year and four option years.

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FBPD-CFP-11-CI-0005.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FBPD-CFP-11-CI-0005.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>52.212-4	CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2010)



Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights— 

Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and 

Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.

	(b) Assignment.  The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727).  However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.

	(c) Changes.  Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.

	(d) Disputes.  This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601613).  Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.2331, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.

	(e) Definitions.  The clause at FAR 52.2021, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.

	(f) Excusable delays.  The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.  The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.

	(g) Invoice.  The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized,) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices.  An invoice must include

	(i) Name and address of the Contractor;

	(ii) Invoice date and number;

	(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;

	(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;

	(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading;

	(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;

	(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;

	(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to be notified in event of defective invoice; and

	(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).  The Contractor shall include its TIN only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

	(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferCentral Contractor Registration, or 52. 232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferOther than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures.

	(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.

	(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

	(h) Patent indemnity.  The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.

	(i) Payment.  (1) Items accepted.  Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract.

	(2) Prompt payment.  The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt pay regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

	(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).  If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.

	(4) Discount.  In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice.  For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.

	(5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the— 

(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); 

(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; 

(C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and 

(D) Contractor point of contact. 

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. 

(6) Interest. 

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. 

(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. 

(iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by  if— 

(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; 

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or 

(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see ). 

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. 

(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: 

(A) The date fixed under this contract. 

(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. 

(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on— 

(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; 

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or 

(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. 

(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. 

 	(j) Risk of loss.  Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:

	(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or

	(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.

	(k) Taxes.  The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.

	(l) Termination for the Government's convenience.  The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience.  In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work.  Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination.  The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose.  This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records.  The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.

	(m) Termination for cause.  The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance.  In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law.  If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience.

	(n) Title.  Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.

	(o) Warranty.  The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.

	(p) Limitation of liability.  Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.

	(q) Other compliances.  The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract.

    (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with  relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts;  relating to officials not to benefit; , et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; , Anti-Kickback Act of 1986;  and  relating to whistleblower protections; , Fly American; and  relating to procurement integrity. 

        (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 

(1) The schedule of supplies/services. 

(2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. 

(3) The clause at 52.212-5. 

(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. 

(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. 

(6) Other paragraphs of this clause. 

(7) The Standard Form 1449. 

(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(9) The specification. 

        (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). 

(1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. 

(2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. 

    (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. 

(3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. 

		(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2010)



INVOICES



Invoices shall be submitted electronically to the e-mail address shown in Block 18a, page 1.  Protected Microsoft Excel files are the preferred format; however, Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) and Microsoft Word are also acceptable.  For payment and invoice questions contact Accounting Services Division at (304) 480-8300.    



PAYMENT INFORMATION:



Receive a free email notice of your electronic payment.  Register at .



OVERPAYMENTS



In accordance with 52.212-4 section (i) 5 Overpayments:  Accounts Receivable Conversion of Check Payments to EFT:  If the Contractor sends the Government a check to remedy duplicate contract financing or an overpayment by the government, it will be converted into an electronic funds transfer (EFT). This means the Government will copy the check and use the account information on it to electronically debit the Contractor's account for the amount of the check. The debit from the Contractor's account will usually occur within 24 hours and will be shown on the regular account statement.



The Contractor will not receive the original check back.  The Government will destroy the Contractor's original check, but will keep a copy of it.  If the EFT cannot be processed for technical reasons, the Contractor authorizes the Government to process the copy in place of the original check.



MARKING OF SHIPMENTS:



Please ensure that the order number (Block 4) is clearly visible on all shipping/service documents, containers, and invoices. 



1052.201-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER’S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR) APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY (APR 2004) (DEVIATION) (DTAR)



a. The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative(s) will be named at time of award. 



b. Performance of work under this contract must be subject to the technical direction of the COTR identified above, or a representative designated in writing.  The term “technical direction” includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily.  



c. Technical direction must be within the scope of the specification(s)/work statement.  The COTR does not have authority to issue technical direction that:

1. constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the specification(s)/work statement;

2. constitutes a change as defined in the clause titled “Changes”;

3. in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance;

4. changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract;

5. interferes with the Contractor’s right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or

6. directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor’s employees.



d. Technical direction may be oral or in writing.  The COTR shall confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the contracting officer.



e. The contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COTR.  If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the COTR, or his/her designee, falls within the limitations in (c) above, the contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day.



f.  Failure of the contractor and the contracting officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause titled “Disputes.”



52.209-9  UPDATES OF PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (Jan 2011) 



 (a) The Contractor shall update the information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) on a semi-annual basis, throughout the life of the contract, by posting the required information in the Central Contractor Registration database at . 



(b)(1) The Contractor will receive notification when the Government posts new information to the Contractor’s record. 

(2) The Contractor will have an opportunity to post comments regarding information that has been posted by the Government. The comments will be retained as long as the associated information is retained, i.e., for a total period of 6 years. Contractor comments will remain a part of the record unless the Contractor revises them. 

(3)(i) Public requests for system information posted prior to April 15, 2011, will be handled under Freedom of Information Act procedures, including, where appropriate, procedures promulgated under E.O. 12600. 

(ii) As required by section 3010 of Public Law 111-212, all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. 



52.217-8	OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) 



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days before the contract expiration date. 



52.217-9            OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)



	(a)  The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within the final 30 days of each contract period; provided, that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

	(b)  If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

	(c)  The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months.

	(d) Exercise of the option(s) cited shall be in accordance with the term and prices set forth in this contract.



CONTRACT TERM



The contract term will include a twelve (12) month base period, and four (4) option periods of twelve (12) months each.



52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)



The Government anticipates awarding  a single Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity contract with firm fixed price delivery/task orders.



52.216-18  ORDERING (OCT 1995)



 (a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from award through 60 months. 

(b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. 

(c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered “issued” when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. 



52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995) 



(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than (to be determined at award), the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. 

(b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor— 

(1) Any order for a single item in excess of (to be determined at award); 

(2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of (to be determined at award); or 

(3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within 10 calendar days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. 

(c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. 

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 30 days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. 



52.216-22  INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995) 



 	(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. 

(b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the “maximum.” The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the “minimum.” 

(c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. 

(d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 30 days.



CONTRACT MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM 



(a)    The minimum amount the Government is obligated to order during the term of the  contract is (to be determined at award).

      (b)    The maximum amount of the contract will be (determined at award).



CONFIDENTIAL AND SENSITIVE INFORMATION  



The Contractor agrees that the work to be performed and information released to the Contractor is, because of the sensitive and confidential nature of such information, sensitive in nature and is not to be disclosed to anyone other than BPD/CFPB employees assigned to the contracted project and other Contractor personnel working on the project. The Contractor agrees to protect all confidential and/or sensitive information received by or provided to the Contractor pursuant to this contract from unauthorized disclosure or use for as long as the information remains sensitive or confidential and further agrees that it will not use such information for any purpose other than that relating to the performance of this contract. For purposes of the contract, all information provided to or received by the Contractor is deemed confidential and sensitive.



The Contractor shall execute and is responsible for having all of its account team employees and agents working under this contract and/or having access to sensitive information under this contract execute a statement entitled " Attachment A,  Non- Disclosure Agreement." This Statement, a copy of which is appended to this contract, provides that sensitive but unclassified information provided to the Contractor or its employees or agents shall not, except as permitted in connection with the performance of the contract, be further disclosed or used without the prior written approval of the CFPB. Executed copies of this statement must be completed and returned to the CFPB by a duly authorized official of the Contractor and by all Contractor employees or agents who will perform work on the Contract before their work begins. In the event that contractor fails to submit signed Non-Disclosure Agreements prior to beginning work, the effective date of any Non-Disclosure Agreements received after work begins shall be the date of award.



Notwithstanding the forgoing, Contractor may use and disclose claims data to carry out the obligations of the Contractor set forth in this Agreement, or as allowed by law, subject to the provisions set forth in this Agreement.



SECURITY



The contractor shall comply with Federal information systems security requirements as described by the National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST") and OMB M-06-16.



The contractor shall provide protection for information and an information system that has been categorized in accordance with Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 199 as moderate (confidentiality), moderate (integrity) and low (availability) impact.  Authentication shall comply with that required for a system in which e-authentication assurance level “3” applies (see “E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies” (OMB 04-04) and NIST Special Publication 800-63). Authentication shall not be burdensome and the contractor’s method of authentication shall not require users to download or install an application or file on their computers or networks.

In addition to the policies described above, adequate data protection includes the following discrete requirements, at a minimum:

Encrypt all sensitive data in the database (at rest) and in transmission using industry standards approved by CFPB such as 128 bit Secure Sockets Layer;

Log all computer-readable data extracts and verify each extract, including whether sensitive data has been erased, within ninety (90) days of its use (OMB Memo M-06-16);

Allow entry into the systems only to authorized individuals; 

Maintain an audit logging capability to record access activity including the user ID, time and date of use, type of transaction, user submitted transactions, initiated transactions, system override events and direct additions, changes or deletions to application maintained data;

Limit the capability to select functions (e.g., data entry), as well as have the capability to define functional access rights (e.g., to matters, contacts, documents) and data access rights (e.g., record, create, read, see, update and delete) by assigned user ID, functional role and user group. User profiles can be accessed, deleted, modified or changed by the system administrator;

Allow the system administrator to restrict access to sensitive data elements by named user, user groups or functional role.  Restricted data should not even be visible to users who lack permission to view it;

Ensure that all users have unique user IDs;

Provide the ability for CFPB to query the audit log by type of access, date and time stamp range, user identification, user group organization code or access point; and

Ensure that guidelines regarding appropriate Internet access and usage is implemented and enforced. Policies addressing access to and disclosure of electronic mail messages sent or received by employees using the contractor’s corporate email system shall also be implemented and enforced. Such guidelines will inform employees that their privacy does not extend to their use of the contractor-provided equipment or supplies.

The contractor is responsible for preparing all certification and accreditation (“C&A”) documents described in the Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems (NIST Special Publication 800-37), coordinating the submission of such documents with CFPB and correcting any deficiencies identified in the C&A process until full accreditation from CFPB is obtained.



To the extent that users are allowed to remote in, or otherwise work outside of physical contractor facilities, users may only utilize contractor-issued and secured equipment and software.



The contractor shall comply with Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.224-1 (Privacy Act notification) and 52.224-2 (Privacy Act), which are incorporated by reference here and elsewhere in this Contract. The latter Federal Acquisition Regulation clause explicitly requires that the contractor comply with the Privacy Act and all implementing agency rules and regulations. 



The contractor shall pay particular attention to the Privacy Act’s requirements for verifying identity, purpose and authority of the requester before any disclosure of system records, accounting (tracking) of disclosures, protecting the security and integrity of system records from threats and hazards and providing Privacy Act notices to individuals, the text of which shall be supplied by CFPB, when collecting information from such individuals, whether in writing (e.g., notice included on paper or electronic forms used to collect complaints or other data from individuals, etc.) or orally (e.g., recorded or live oral notice given over the telephone to individual callers).



PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 



This contract is subject to a performance evaluation via The Contractor Performance Reporting System (CPARS) at www.cpars.csd.disa.mil.  Following the end of each contract period and at contract completion, a completed Government evaluation shall be forwarded to the Contractor.  The Contractor may submit written comments, if any, within the time period specified in the evaluation transmittal.  The Contractor’s comments shall be considered in the issuance of the final evaluation document.  Any disagreement between the parties regarding the evaluation shall be forwarded to the Bureau Chief Procurement Officer (BCPO).  The final evaluation of the Contractor’s performance is the decision of the BCPO.  A copy of the final performance evaluation report will be sent to the Contractor and to the Government’s past performance database at .



SUBCONTRACTING REPORTING



In accordance with the clause Small Business Subcontracting Plan at FAR 52.219-9, the Contractor shall submit reports through the ESRS system.



Public-Release of Contract Version Requirement



Within 10 business days of award, the contractor shall submit to the COTR a .pdf file of the fully executed contract or task order with all proposed necessary redactions, including redactions of any trade secrets or any commercial or financial information that it believes to be privileged or confidential business information, for the purpose of public disclosure at the sole discretion of the Government.  The contractor shall provide a detailed written statement specifying the basis for each of its proposed redactions, including the applicable exemption under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. § 552, and, in the case of FOIA Exemption 4, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(4), shall demonstrate why the information is considered to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.  Information provided by the contractor in response to this requirement may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.  



The Government will carefully consider all of the contractor’s proposed redactions and associated grounds for nondisclosure prior to making a final determination as to what information in the fully executed contract may be properly withheld.  



TRAVEL INVOICING PROCEDURES



The Government anticipates travel under this contract and subsequent task orders.  When/if travel is required; the COTR will notify the Contractor.  Travel costs shall either be included in their firm-fixed-price or be paid in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR), FAR 31.205-46, depending on the instructions provided in the task proposal request.  Travel receipts shall be submitted to support actual travel charges.  If travel is priced in accordance with the FAR 31.205-46, FTR requires that copies of airline, car and lodging invoices and invoices for any single item over $75 be submitted with the Contractor’s invoice.  In addition, the Contractor shall calculate the allowable per diem for each trip in accordance with the current federal per diem rates and include those figures on the invoice.











52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/VFFARA.HTM



52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)



52.212-5	CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2011)



  	(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

	__Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78) 

  	

	(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

	_X_ (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

	__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

	__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

	_ X _ (4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

	__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

	_ X _ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) ( note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). 

	__ (7) , Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (). 

	__ (8) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

	__ (9) [Reserved] 

	__ (10)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

	__ (11)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

	_ X _ (12) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

	_ X _ (13)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

	_ X _ (14) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

	__ (15) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

	__ (16)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

	__ (17) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ).

	__ (18) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

	__ (19) , Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

	_ X _ (20)  , Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (). 

	__ (21)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011). 

	__ (22)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011). 

	_ X _ (23) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

	_ X _ (24) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

	_ X _ (25) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

	_ X _ (26) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

	_ X _ (27) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(). 

	_ X _ (28) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

	_ X _ (29) , Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

	_ X _ (30) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

	__ (31) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

	__ (32)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

	__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

	__ (33) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

	__ (34)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

	_ X _ (35) , Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513). 

	__ (36) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

	__ (37)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of . 

	__ (38) , Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

	__ (39) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

	__ (40) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

	__ (41) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

	__ (42) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

	__ (43) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

	_ X _ (44) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

	__ (45) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

	__ (46) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

	_ X _ (47) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

	__ (48)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 



 	 (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

	__ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

	__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services— Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

	__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

	__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

   

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xi) of this paragraph in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

 (viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

 (xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 	Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. 	Appx. 1241(b) and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR 	clause . 



 (2)While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.











































































THE U.S DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY ON BEHALF OF 

THE CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU (CFPB)

Performance Work Statement

MATTER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (MMS)





1. OVERVIEW / BACKGROUND

The Enforcement Division (“Enforcement”) and the Office of General Counsel (“OGC”) of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) will be engaged in complex investigations and legal actions.  Enforcement will pursue investigations or legal actions in response to potential and confirmed violations of Federal consumer financial law.  These enforcement activities can be in the form of investigative proceedings, administrative hearings, or federal court lawsuits.  OGC is responsible for the CFPB’s compliance with all applicable laws and will provide legal and ethics advice for and guidance to all parts of the Bureau.  OGC will handle defensive litigation, appeals, amicus filings and other legal proceedings for the CFPB.



To accomplish their goals, both Enforcement and OGC will require a system that enables managers, staff attorneys, and support staff to organize staff resources, documents, events, schedules, and contacts in an efficient manner, as well as facilitate internal oversight and reporting.  This is called a matter management system (“MMS”).



Background



Both Enforcement and OGC are preparing for the designated transfer date of July 21, 2011, when the CFPB will assume many of its legal authorities.  A matter management system is necessary as soon as possible to support and manage the execution of CFPB’s enforcement and legal authorities and responsibilities.  CFPB envisions implementing the MMS in stages, the first of which will allow the Enforcement and OGC Divisions to begin using a baseline version of the system and to conduct training on it as soon as possible.  The second stage will be rolled out after allowing sufficient time for the Contractor to work with staff from Enforcement and OGC and the IT division to customize the system to fit the specific needs of the CFPB.  As detailed below, it is expected that the Contractor will propose a timetable for rolling out the various stages.



Since Enforcement and OGC will need to begin their work before it is feasible to have an MMS in place, both divisions will begin creating data using interim systems.  It is important to minimize the time that the teams use interim systems because any data created using such systems will need to be converted to the new system by the Contractor.  



2. OBJECTIVE

The CFPB has been tasked with enforcing the Federal consumer financial laws and defending itself against lawsuits.  Its attorneys and legal support staff require a software solution that organizes the complex relationships, information, and calendaring needs that arise from investigations and lawsuits.  The goal of selecting an MMS is to support the Enforcement and OGC divisions to allow them to accomplish their responsibilities in an efficient and effective manner. 



3. SCOPE

The contract resulting from this competition will require the Contractor to provide an MMS, provide ongoing support and maintenance, and provide training.  The Contractor, in performance of the resultant contract, shall:



3.1 Assess the configuration and customization needs of the CFPB to determine what customizations to the fields and interface would best support the CFPB's internal processes.  This includes processes of Enforcement Division, Office of General Counsel, and may, in the future, include other CFPB divisions.  The CFPB anticipates limited on-site work during the initial stages of contract performance.



3.2 Install MMS software tool for an initial user group size of up to 160, with the possibility of a fully staffed user group size of up to 900 throughout the contract.



3.3 Train CFPB users on the MMS, utilizing an on-site train-the-trainer strategy.



3.4 Complete full customization of MMS software tool, employing vendor proposed strategy and as agreed by CFPB.  



3.5 Provide annual ongoing operations and maintenance (“O&M”) to include application support with software patches/updates and year-round 24/7 troubleshooting support via online and telephone.



3.6 Onsite technical support during the implementation period, as needed.



4. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS



4.1 Calendaring



The system will allow for centralized and automated scheduling of calendar invitations, tasks, and deadlines. 























4.2 Fully Customizable Matter Information Tracking



Attorneys and other staff can learn to quickly enter all relevant information about a matter into the database, and the information is organized in a way that promotes cooperation and organization.







































4.3 Reporting and Analysis of Aggregate Data



Managers will be able to pull various metrics from the data to enable them to manage team performance and provide reports to CFPB leadership, Congress, and others. 























































4.4 Document Generation 



Document generation will enable attorneys and staff to create form letters, motions, and other documents with a high level of efficiency.  



































4.5 Integration with Other Systems



Successful utilization of a matter management system depends on the ability of the system to integrate seamlessly with other IT systems that the Bureau will procure.  Given the uncertainty that exists with respect to other systems, it is critical that potential contractors build into their proposals the flexibility to adapt and customize the system in case Microsoft Exchange and Office products are not chosen.  









4.6 Technical Support





5. Technical Background



The MMS solution must be entirely web-based, with the ability to be hosted at and served from CFPB’s remote data centers. An MMS user should be able to access their work via any computer on the CPFB network instead of only from their assigned computer. If it is not possible to host the solution from CFPB’s data centers, the vendor’s own data centers will be considered pending those centers’ compliance with FISMA guidelines.



CFPB users will be located across multiple offices across the United States and will be connected over an MPLS WAN cloud.  Internal applications will be hosted on a virtual private cloud infrastructure by an external service provider.  Applications will be required to meet to FISMA security controls based on the FIPS 199 categorization of the application’s confidentiality, integrity and available requirements.



CFPB currently resides on the Treasury LAN and WAN infrastructure. Within the next 6 to 18 months, CFPB will be migrating out of the Treasury network to its own network infrastructure. 



While the current virtual cloud environment has the capability of supporting a variety of operating environments, CFPB will support a limited number of technical platforms to manage complexity of the infrastructure.  Currently, CFPB supports the following platforms:



Operating Systems: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6, Windows Server 2008

Database: mySQL, SQLServer 2008 r2

Web Servers: Apache, IIS v7

Application Servers: Tomcat, Cold Fusion 9.01

Languages / Application Framework: Python (including the Django framework), Ruby (including the Rails framework), PHP, Cold Fusion

Authentication and access control is managed by LDAP and Kerberos interfaces with Active Directory.  



Authentication on LAMP-based applications is managed by Kerberos tokens.  CFPB email is currently managed by Treasury’s Exchange Server, but because CFPB will be migrating off of Treasury's Exchange Server in the next 6 to 18 months, any solution should be capable of integrating with leading hosted email solutions.



CFPB users will use both Windows and Macintosh based client laptops and desktops.  Web applications shall support the most recent versions of leading browsers such Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome and Safari.

6. KEY TASKS & DELIVERABLES

Contractor shall perform all services, tasks, and any other support activities required to develop and maintain the MMS. 

Contractor shall provide a schedule for deploying the MMS.

Contractor shall deploy MMS.

Following initial deployment using standard templates and fields, participating in the design of the MMS, including requirements definition and documentation, configuration changes and customization of fields throughout the screens and database(s)

Developing and/or configuring the system to support it and integrate it with other CFPB systems (see Section 5 above), including at least email, document management/collaboration tools, eDiscovery

Deploying the application to a production environment for internal users

Extracting, transforming, and loading any matter management data from interim solutions, such as Microsoft Excel, into the MMS

Supporting and maintaining the application, including upgrades, patches, bug fixes

Tracking status and reporting on progress during the development and implementation of the application

Working on site in Washington, D.C., in close partnership with CFPB staff on an as needed basis

Training CFPB IT staff and end users on use of the application and any necessary system administration










TABLE 1 – KEY DELIVERABLES



Contractor shall propose due dates for key deliverables # 2 through # 12.  The CFPB anticipates that Key Deliverable #1 through #12 be completed in the base year of the contract.



Other Deliverables

The contractor shall also provide support and work product to support the following activities:

Internal training and communications

Definition of the business problem and analysis of alternative solutions for technology selection(s)

Data gathering analysis, data mapping market analysis, and evaluation









TABLE 2 – PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY (PRS)





For all tasks, the acceptable quality level is one calendar day after the vendor-proposed deadline.



The deliverables identified in the table above will be tracked to ensure that the vendor is progressing through contract performance in accordance with TABLE 1 – Key Deliverable



52.212-1   INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2008)



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1  INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2008)



A. PROPOSAL FORM AND CONTENT



1.   The overall proposal shall consist of three (3) physically separate written volumes, individually entitled as stated below.



Volume I – General

Volume II – Technical

Volume III – Price



2.  The volumes of the proposal must conform to the following instructions.  The written technical proposal shall not contain more than 5000 words and shall be submitted in Word or WordPerfect format.  Any words beyond the cited word limitation will be removed from the proposal, and shall not be considered by the Government.  Additionally, any other information beyond what is requested below, such as brochures or other marketing materials, will be removed from the proposal, and shall not be considered by the Government.  



**NOTE – The Government may remove any proposal from further consideration that does not fully comply with all proposal preparation instructions.**



VOLUME I - GENERAL, shall include the following items:



Cover Letter - Provide a cover letter referencing the solicitation number and signed by an authorized official of the firm.  The cover letter shall include the name, title, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address of the designated point of contact for the proposal.

Completed Standard Form 1449 - Complete blocks 12, 17 & 30 of the cover page of this RFP (i.e., Standard Form 1449 “Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Items”).

Any and all license agreements pertaining to the solution proposed.  License agreements will not, of themselves, automatically cause a proposal to be rejected as unacceptable.  A large amount of agreement language that makes exceptions, deviations, conditional assumptions, and/or contradicts the terms and conditions contained herein, or one or more significant exceptions, deviations, conditional assumptions, or contradictory language not providing any obvious benefit to the Government, may result in rejection of such proposal(s) as unacceptable.

Acknowledgement of Amendments - Provide an acknowledgement of RFP amendments, if any.  The acknowledgement must reference the amendment number(s).

A completed copy of FAR Provisions 52.209-7 “Information Regarding Responsibility Matters” and 52.212-3 “Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items”.

Sign and return Attachment A.

Subcontracting Plan – Offeror(s) shall submit an acceptable subcontracting plan following the Small Business, Veteran-Owned Small Business, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), HUBZone Small Business, Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB), and Women-Owned Small Business Subcontracting Plan Outline (see Attachment C).



DTAR1052.219-71 SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (MAR 2002)

As part of its initial proposal, each large business offeror shall submit a subcontracting plan as prescribed in FAR 52.219-9. Use of the subcontracting plan outline contained in Attachment C of this solicitation is optional, however, plans must contain all elements included in the outline.  



VOLUME II - TECHNICAL, shall include the following information (Note: no cost information shall be included in this volume):



Offeror shall provide a written proposal which clearly addresses how it will meet CFPB's requirement as stated in the Performance Work Statement (PWS).  At a minimum, Offerors shall provide:



Functionality - Offeror shall clearly specify whether or not (yes/no) it is currently capable of providing the functionality as stated in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 4.6.  Offeror may elect to provide narrative for each requirement in the previously stated sections in support of whether or not the vendor has the specified functionality.  Offeror's are encouraged to provided narrative about characteristics of its functionally that sets it apart from its competitors.



Offeror shall provide narrative that describes how the offeror will fulfill each of the specific requirements contained in 4.5.  Offerors shall include, in their narrative, estimates for the amount of time required to implement each integration. (reference specific Requirements 32 - 40).



Offeror shall provide a list of ALL specific software programs with which they can integrate. 



Offeror shall propose a MMS training program for CFPB endusers.  (Reference Section 3.3)



NOTE: Offerors should consider whether subcontracting may be necessary to meet Requirement 05 in Section 4.1.





Key Deliverable Timeline - Offeror shall propose a most aggressive yet realistic timeline in TABLE 1 for meeting Key Deliverables.



Offeror shall propose a rollout strategy for CFPB's Production – Fully Customized MMS solution. CFPB envisions either rolling customization, culminating in a complete Production environment, or a single rollout of a complete Production environment upon completion of all customization.  Offerors may propose alternate strategy as well.



Offeror shall provide examples of instances were tight timelines have previously be proposed and successfully executed.



Past Performance - Provide information on up to five (5) clients for whom it has provided products/services that are similar in scope, magnitude and complexity to the requirements of this solicitation.  Client references shall not be provided by proposed teammates or subcontractors unless any single such firm is proposed to provide at least 25% of the effort (as measured by price); in that case, up to two (2) of the five client references may be provided for that firm.  Products/Services provided for federal agencies will be deemed more significant than those provided for other entities.  The following information shall be provided for each client reference:



Customer name and address

Customer points of contact (name, title, email address, telephone number and fax number) for contractual matters (e.g., Contracting Officer) and technical performance (e.g., COTR)

Contract number

Total dollar value of the contract.  If performed as part of a team, provide the dollar value of your firm’s contribution

Period of contract performance

Description of supplies/services provided, including the specific supplies/services provided by your firm

Describe issues encountered during implementation and how they were resolved.



The Government may contact any past performance references to verify information submitted and/or to seek additional information.



At this time MMS software trial versions are not permitted, and will not be evaluated as a part of initial evaluation.  However, the CFPB may establish a competitive range of the highest overall evaluated offers.  Competitive range vendors may be required to provide a trial version of the proposed MMS solution for CFPB's limited time use.  Instruction as to what information the vendor shall provide will be communicated at the time the competitive range is established.



VOLUME III - PRICE, shall include the following information in Attachment B:



To assist CFPB in providing a consistent appraisal of each proposal, pricing proposals must be provided as outlined below.  The required pricing information for MMS is provided below.  



Line 001 – Offerors shall provide a per unit price, as well as, an extended firm-fixed-price for proposed MMS licenses.



Line 002 – Offerors shall provide a per unit price for optional additional license purchases.  CFPB needs the ability to acquire additional licenses as Agency needs dictate (see 3.2 and RQ40).  Licenses may be purchased incrementally in any quantity up to a cumulative of 900.  Offerors should consider any and all discounts for multiple license purchases (see Evaluation).



Line 003 – Offerors shall propose the number of rate (Unit Price) and number of hours (Quantity) of training in accordance with Section 3.3, as well as, an extended firm-fixed-price.



Line 004 through 008 – Offerors shall propose an extended firm-fixed-price for each line item.



Line 009 – Offeror shall propose a travel estimate to complete the work in the PWS.  Offerors shall provide a breakout for travel estimates, specifying the travel estimate per task where travel is anticipated.



Line 010 through 014 – Offerors shall propose annual maintenance and support costs for the MMS for Base Year through Option Year 4.



Offerors shall propose a total firm-fixed-price.



In addition to completing TABLE 1, Offerors may submit supplemental information to support or further explain pricing in TABLE 1.



All prices in section titled “PRICING” (i.e., for Contract Years Base, 1, 2, 3, and 4) must be complete and submitted in the Price Proposal.  In its proposal, the Offeror shall confirm that the proposed prices are inclusive of the supplies/services outlined in the PWS.  It is anticipated that CFPB will use price analysis techniques, as defined in FAR 15.404-1(b)(2), to determine the reasonableness of the offered prices.  



B. TIME, DATE AND PLACE PROPOSALS ARE DUE



Proposals are due no later than 2:00 p.m. ET on Friday, July 1, 2011.



Proposals shall be submitted electronically to:  in Word or WordPerfect format.  Offerors assume full responsibility for assuring that proposals are received in a timely manner.  All electronic submissions shall contain the subject line "BPD-CFP-11-CI-0005 Attn J. Oberlin." Facsimile submissions will not be accepted.



The Offeror shall ensure all electronic materials and attachments submitted are formatted in accordance with the Bureau of the Public Debt Security Requirements.  If the Offeror determines that other file formats in addition to those listed above are necessary, it is the Offeror’s responsibility to verify with BPD that those formats are acceptable.  Proposal materials with unacceptable or unreadable formats may be found non-responsive. 



Proposals received after the time and date specified above will not be accepted unless the Contracting Officer determines that acceptance of the proposal is in the Government’s best interest and will not unduly delay the acquisition.



Offerors are prohibited from communicating directly with CFPB personnel about this procurement action.



Any questions regarding this RFQ shall be submitted in writing to  and must state "BPD-CFP-11-CI-0005 Questions ATTN: J. Oberlin" in the subject line, no later than 2:00 p.m. ET on Thursday, June 16, 2011.  We cannot assure an answer to questions submitted after this deadline.  Any questions and/or comments received are not considered proprietary and will not be protected by the Government.  








52.212-2  EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)



1.  CFPB intends to award a single contract to the Offeror whose offer, conforming to the solicitation, represents the best value to the Government.  In considering which offer represents the best value, CFPB will consider the following technical criteria:



	a)  Functionality



	b)  Key Deliverable Timeline 



	c)  Past Performance 



	d)  Business Size





Criteria (a) through (d) are listed in descending order of importance.  From the standpoint of relative importance of price to technical criteria, the technical criteria, when combined, are significantly more important than price.  However, as the merit of technical factors in competing proposals approaches equality, price will become a discriminating consideration.



2.  CFPB will evaluate each technical criterion as follows:



Functionality - CFPB will evaluate the depth and breadth of functionality offered.  CFPB will evaluate the vendors’ narrative responses that describe how they distinguish themselves from the competition.  CFPB will evaluate the narrative responses provided in response to Section 4.5, Integration with Other Systems.  CFPB will also evaluate the proposed on-site, train-the-trainer, training program for cost and perceived technical effectiveness. 



Key Deliverable Timeline - Vendors are being asked to propose a realistic and aggressive timeline for Key Deliverables.  CFPB evaluate the speed with which the vendor can complete the Key Deliverables identified in the PWS, and likelihood of success based upon demonstrated prior success.



Past performance - CFPB will evaluate the Offeror's past performance.  CFPB will evaluate the level of expertise that is evident in proposal material provided by the offeror, as well as information on clients for whom it has provided products/services that are similar in scope, magnitude and complexity to the requirements of this solicitation.  CFPB will attempt to contact the client references provided.  CFPB will evaluate past performance information obtained from sources other than as provided in the Offeror's proposal (example: PPIRS).  



Business Size – Small business will be given preference.



Note: The Government reserves the right to establish a competitive range containing the highest overall evaluated offers.  Offerors in the competitive range may be required to provide a trial version of the proposed MMS solution for CFPB's limited time use.  CFPB will assess the ease of use of products based on the information obtained from vendors included in the competitive range.



3.  The Government will evaluate price, including options, to determine it is fair and reasonable.  The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).



4. A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.  Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. 



52.209-7 – Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jan 2011)



 (a) Definitions. As used in this provision—



“Administrative proceeding” means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceeding at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables.



“Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000” means—



(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and



(2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).



“Principal” means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions).



(b) The offeror [_] has [_] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000.



(c) If the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information:



(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: 



(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.



(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.



(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in—



(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or 



(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.



(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision.



(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.



(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at  (see 52.204-7).



52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2011)



         An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at . If an offeror has not completed the 	annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only 	paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. 

 (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-

 

 “Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.

 “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

	(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

	(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

  “Inverted domestic corporation” means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. 

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

 “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. 

(b)(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] 



(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It * is, * is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It * is, * is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. 

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It * is, * is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It * is, * is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. 

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it  is a women-owned business concern. 

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

(10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It  is,  is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It  has,  has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii)  Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It  is,  is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It  is,  is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

 (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

 (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary]





(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 

i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.” 

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:





[List as necessary]



(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

 

Other Foreign End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary]



(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:



[List as necessary]



(4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

   (1) * Are, * are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

   (2) * Have, * have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and

   (3) * Are, * are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

   (4) * Have, *have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).



(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] 

(1) Listed end products.



(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2)  Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror  does  does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror  does  does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

   (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

   (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

   (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

o  TIN: ________________________________. 

o  TIN has been applied for. 

o  TIN is not required because: 

o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

   (4) Type of organization. 

o  Sole proprietorship; 

o  Partnership; 

o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

o  Foreign government; 

o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

o  Other ________________________________. 

   (5) Common parent. 

o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

o  Name and TIN of common parent: 

o  Name ________________________________. 

o  TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

     (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at  (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR ). 

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one. 

 (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. 

(1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. 

(2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if— 

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., (g) or a comparable agency provision); and 

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. 





#

Requirements

Requirement/ Optional



Includes separate calendar for each matter that reflects all matter deadlines, and calendars can be updated by attorneys on the matters (or anyone given rights to the calendars)

Requirement



Calendars can be viewed and searched individually (one matter) or together (many matters on one calendar)

Requirement



Supervisors/team leaders/anyone can view the deadlines for any individual matter, as well as for all matters at once

Requirement



Calendars provide bidirectional synchronization with Outlook, Google for Government, and similar programs

Requirement



Docketing function automatically calculates deadlines when given an input (e.g., a pleading) based on court rules (e.g. Compulaw http://www.compulaw.com/ or West product)  

Requirement



Ability to generate reports of upcoming events/deadlines, accomplished tasks, and overdue matters

Requirement



Tickler system that can send automated reminders in defined circumstances

Requirement



#

Requirements

Requirement/ Optional



Fully and easily customizable database that allows for tracking matter-related data according to fields determined by the user; fully customizable user interface

Requirement



Customizable database and user interface can be used prior to full customization and during implementation stage by using default fields

Requirement



Ability to search for information relating to a matter using multiple fields, including, for example, assigned attorneys/staff/supervisors, matter category, opposing counsel, venue, source of referral to Enforcement, type of remedies awarded, status of consumer redress distribution

Requirement



Ability to track status of matter-related workflow (where various matter-related documents that require approval by multiple parties within the CFPB – e.g., CID approval; approval to file action; settlement approval – are pending in approval process)

Requirement



Contacts can be linked to multiple matters, and records for each contact can track the contact’s role in many different matters

Requirement



Contacts can by synched with Outlook and other similar programs

Requirement



Contacts can have bidirectional synchronization with Outlook and other similar programs

Optional



Synchronization of contacts distinguishes between the user’s personal and professional contacts

Optional



#

Requirements

Requirement/ Optional



A powerful search tool that allows people to search by different fields or combinations of fields, returns results quickly, saves previous searches for one-time or regular reporting, and generates text and graphical reports

Requirement



Ability to view all matters at once and see what stage they are in, all matters assigned to particular attorney(s), all matters in a particular subject area, all matters of a particular type

Requirement



Ability to calculate how many matters were brought/ongoing/resolved during a particular time period, by attorney/section/matter type

Requirement



Ability to search and report information about remedies/how much relief has been granted/how much restitution has been paid, etc., by time period and matter type

Requirement



Ability to create graphs, charts, lists of aggregated matter information for regular and ad hoc reporting requirements

Requirement



Ability to automatically generate certain reports (e.g., monthly report of all pending matters and assigned attorneys)

Requirement



#

Requirements

Requirement/ Optional



Ability to generate documents from customizable templates using contact and matter-specific information (e.g., contact name and address, matter name and number, etc.) stored in the system

Requirement



Ability to print quickly and easily from any part of the MMS

Requirement



Ability to generate a brief bank or other collections of past work of particular types

Requirement



Ability to create, save, and print text notes tied to particular matters

Requirement



Ability to link to all matter-related documents, including pleadings, correspondence, matter notes, E-Filing documentation, etc.

Requirement



Ability to save documents into a multitude of document management systems, with which the MMS must be able to integrate - vendor creates interface

Requirement



Ability to efficiently import the Bureau’s work product into the system and associate it with a particular matter (e.g., by dragging-and-dropping), including e-mails, word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation documents, and scanned documents.  It would be preferable to be able to import e-mails and documents directly from the Bureau’s e-mail and word processing systems, through a robust integration

Requirement



Able to search documents linked to matters using keyword, document type, date modified, and other information fields

Optional



Ability to share and work collaboratively on documents generated by the MMS

Optional



Ability to steer or force users to save documents into the integrated document management system, which is a separate product not administered by the Contractor

Optional



#

Requirements

Requirement/ Optional



Ability to integrate seamlessly and rapidly with document management and eDiscovery systems so that documents (internal or produced) can be linked to a particular matter.  The document management system will be a separate product not administered by the Contractor

Requirement



Ability to integrate with systems that contain documents received, created, saved by other divisions of the Bureau (such as the Bank Supervision, Nonbank Supervision, and Consumer Response Divisions) that relate to the institution(s) that is/are the subject(s) of a matter

Requirement



Ability to integrate with word processing products, including those that are not made by Microsoft, to allow users to click a button within the word processor that saves a link to the document into the MMS

Requirement



Ability to integrate with multiple email server platforms (e.g., Exchange 2007, Exchange 2010, Google for government, Microsoft cloud-based email, Windows Server 8 in a virtual cloud environment) to support the integration of the calendar and contacts functions of the MMS with the user’s email/calendar/contacts program and RQ36; please note that CFPB’s Exchange environments are short term solutions with the intent to move to a cloud-based email system in the long term

Requirement



Ability to steer or force users to link calendar appointments to the MMS

Requirement



Ability to track and log emails as a form of legal correspondence

Optional



Ability to log in to the system with an Active Directory-based single sign-on capability

Requirement



Ability to integrate with cloud-based email and document management solutions 

Requirement



Scalability: the MMS should run quickly while it is being accessed by at least 160 users simultaneously, with the possibility of expanding it to up to 900 users

Requirement





Ability to support multiple operating systems (Windows 7 and Mac)

Requirement



Ability to support multiple storage solutions (e.g., Sun, HP, Dell, Hitachi, NetApp, EMC and etc.)

Requirement



Performance of periodic upgrades, as needed, with disruption to be scheduled and outside of the Monday through Friday, 8:00 am – 10:00 pm office hours.

Requirement



Provision of  24/7 technical support (remotely)

Requirement



Ability to support multiple server platforms (e.g., Windows Server 2008, Unix and etc.)

Requirement



Ability to support multiple web browsers (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Chrome)

Requirement



RESERVED





Ability to support multiple database types (MySQL, MS SQL, etc.)

Requirement



Ability to allow CFPB IT staff to quickly and easily export all application data into a standard format such as XLS or CSV

Requirement



#

Name

Description

Due Date

1

Requirement & Design Session

Host a design workshop with CFPB to confirm requirements for the MMS 

3 business days after award

2

Draft Project Plan

Provide an initial Project Plan for CFPB revision and discussion in the Kick Off Meeting



3

Kick Off Meeting

Overall Project discussion



4

Final Project Plan

Project Plan agreed to by Contract and CFPB (estimate 3 iterations to arrive at final)



5

Status Reports

Weekly with tasks completed, tasks planned for next week, issues/risks/mitigation strategies





6

Design Document

A solution architecture to show how the tool will fit in to the CFPB architecture





7

Training materials



On-site, Train-the-trainer



8

Initial MMS Rollout

Reference Section 3.2 (CFPB anticipates MMS rollout no more than two (2) months after contract award but possibly as quick as a few business days.)



9

Requirements and Process Mapping

To define the CFPB specific matter management business processes and configuration and customization requirements for OGC and Enforcement



10

Test Plan

Plan for testing the software in our environment and testing all the configuration and customization requirements





11

Production - Fully Customized MMS Rollout

A functional, production system (w/ documentation) Reference Section 3.4





12

User Guide



-





Deliverable

Performance Standard

Monitoring Method

Incentive/

Disincentive

Task 1

Draft project plan

Shall be delivered timely and shall be sufficiently detailed to begin next tasks.

100% Inspection

Past Performance Evaluation

Task 2

Kickoff meeting

Shall be held timely and shall be sufficiently detailed to begin next tasks.

100% Inspection

Past Performance Evaluation

Task 3

Final project plan

Shall be delivered timely and shall be sufficiently detailed to use as a reference and share with program stakeholders.

100% Inspection

Past Performance Evaluation

Task 4

Initial MMS rollout

Shall be delivered timely and shall satisfy or exceed all requirements as agreed in the contract, final project plan, and requirements analysis.

100% Inspection

Past Performance Evaluation

Task 5

Final customized rollout

Shall be delivered timely and shall satisfy or exceed all requirements as agreed in the contract, final project plan, and requirements analysis.

100% Inspection

Past Performance Evaluation



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 



_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 





Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 







Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 




                                                                   ATTACHMENT A

                                                     Contract Name Number:  ________________
                                                        Order Number:  __________________
                                           Conditional Access to Sensitive but Unclassified Information
                                                             Non-Disclosure Agreement

I, ___________________________________, hereby consent to the terms in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted conditional access  to
certain United States Government documents or material containing sensitive but unclassified information.

I understand and agree to the following terms and conditions:

1.    By being granted conditional access to sensitive but unclassified information, the United States Government has placed  special  confidence
      and trust in me and I am obligated to protect this information  from  unauthorized  disclosure,  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this
      Agreement.

2.    As used in the Agreement, sensitive but unclassified information is any  information  the  loss,  misuse,  or  unauthorized  access  to  or
      modification of which could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which  individuals
      are entitled under Title 5 USC 522a, but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or  an
      Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

3.    I am being granted conditional access contingent upon my execution of this Agreement for the  sole  purpose  of  (identify  the  nature  of
      contract work or special project).  This approval will permit me conditional access to certain information, documents, memoranda,  reports,
      testimony, deliberations, maps, assessments, etc. and/or to attend meetings in which  such  information  is  discussed  or  otherwise  made
      available to me.  This Agreement will not allow me  access  to  materials  which  the  Consumer  Financial  Protection  Bureau  (CFPB)  has
      predetermined, in its sole discretion, are inappropriate for disclosure pursuant  to  this  Agreement.   This  may  include  sensitive  but
      unclassified information provided to CFPB by other agencies of the United States Government.

4.    I will never divulge any sensitive but unclassified information that is provided to me pursuant to this Agreement to anyone, unless I  have
      been advised in writing by CFPB that the individual is authorized to receive it.  Should  I  desire  to  make  use  of  any  sensitive  but
      unclassified information, I will do so in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Agreement.  I will submit to CFPB for security review,  prior
      to any submissions for publication, any book, article, column or other written  work  for  general  publication  that  is  based  upon  any
      knowledge I obtained during the course of my work on (name the project) in order for the CFPB to ensure that no sensitive but  unclassified
      information is disclosed.

5.    I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result or may  result
      from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of sensitive but unclassified information not consistent with the terms of this Agreement.

6.    If I am permitted, at the sole discretion of the CFPB, to review any official documents containing sensitive but unclassified  information,
      such review will be conducted at a secure facility or under circumstances that will maintain the security protection of such materials.   I
      will not be permitted to and will not make any copies of documents or parts of documents to which conditional access is granted to me.

7.    If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I understand that  the  unauthorized  disclosure  of  sensitive  but  unclassified
      information could compromise the security of the CFPB.

8.    If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such violation may  result  in  the  cancellation  of  my  conditional  access  to
      sensitive but unclassified information.  This may serve as a basis for denying me conditional access to CFPB information,  both  classified
      and sensitive but unclassified information in the future.  If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the United  States  may
      institute a civil action for damages or any other appropriate relief.  The willful disclosure of information to which I have agreed  herein
      not to divulge may constitute a criminal offence.

9.     Unless and until I am provided a written release by the CFPB from this Agreement or any portions of it,  all  conditions  and  obligations
      contained in this Agreement apply both during my period of conditional access, which shall terminate  at  the  conclusion  of  my  work  on
      Security Services Guard Contract, and at all times thereafter.

10.   Each provision of this Agreement is severable.  If a  court  should  find  any  provisions  of  this  Agreement  unenforceable,  all  other
      provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

11.   I understand that the United States Government may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement, including,  but  not  limited
      to, application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in breach of this Agreement.

12.   By granting me conditional access to information in this context, the United States Government does not waive any statutory or  common  law
      evidentiary privileges or protections that it may  assert  in  any  administrative  or  court  proceeding  to  protect  any  sensitive  but
      unclassified information to which I have been given conditional access under the terms of this Agreement.

13.   These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede,  conflict  with  or  otherwise  alter  the  employee  obligations,  rights  or
      liabilities created by Executive Order 12356; Section 7211 of Title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); Section 1034
      of Title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress  by  members  of
      the military); Section 2302(b)(8) of Title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures  of
      illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of  1982  (50  USC  421  et
      seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents), and the statutes that protect against disclosure  that  may
      compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 128, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of  the
      Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 USC Section 783 (b)).  The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and  liabilities
      created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling.

14.   My execution of this Agreement shall not nullify or effect in any manner  any  other  secrecy  or  nondisclosure  Agreement  which  I  have
      executed or may execute with the United States Government.

  15. I make this Agreement in good faith, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion.

______________________________________  _____________________
Name                   Date
______________________________________
Signature

This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a prior condition on  conditional  access
to sensitive but unclassified information.

_____________________________________        _____________________
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau                     Date
(COTR)



Line TASK Unit Price Quantity Extended Firm-Fixed-Price
Matter Management System Software
1.0 Licenses for concurrent users (see 3.2 and RQ40) 160.0
2.0 OPTION – License cost per additional user (see Section 3.2) Up to 900
3.0 On-site Training (see Section 3.3)   _________ Per person hour _________ Hours
Matter Management System Services
4.0 Installation of MMS
5.0 Customization of MMS fields and interface (see Sections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.4) 
6.0 Data conversion (approx. twelve recently opened investigations and cases)
7.0 Integration with Treasury systems
8.0 Integration with CFPB system (type to be determined)
9.0 Travel expenses (Provide detail, tying expense to specific task)
OPTIONAL Annual Maintenance and Support
10.0 Annual M&S - Base Year
11.0 Annual M&S – Option Year 1
12.0 Annual M&S – Option Year 2
13.0 Annual M&S – Option Year 3
14.0 Annual M&S – Option Year 4
Total Firm-Fixed-Price


                                                                                                                                     Attachment C


  Department of the Treasury Small, HUBZone Small, Small Disadvantaged, Women-Owned Small, Veteran-Owned Small, & Service Disabled Veteran-Owned
                                               Small Business Concerns Subcontracting Plan Outline

The following outline meets the minimum requirements of Public Law 95-507 and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subparts 19.7.  It is
intended to be a guideline.  It is not intended to replace any existing corporate plan which is more extensive.  If  you need assistance to
locate small business sources, contact the Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) at (202) 622-0530 or the
bureau Small Business Specialist,  Loretta Osuna Cotto, Bureau of the Public Debt, at (304) 480-8717 or via e-mail at
smallbusiness@bpd.treas.gov. Please note that the Department of the Treasury has subcontracting goals of  47.9 % for small business,  3 % for
HUBZone Small Business,  5 % for Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB),   5 % for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB), and  3 % for Service Disabled
Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) for fiscal year  2010 . For this procurement, the Department of the Treasury expects all proposed
subcontracting plans to contain the above goals, at a minimum.  Although there is no statutory goal for Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB)
concerns, a VOSB goal must be proposed in accordance with FAR 19.7 and should represent the offeror’s best effort to provide the maximum
practicable opportunities for VOSBs.  These percentages shall be expressed as percentages of the total available subcontracting dollars.

Identification Data:
  Company Name:                                                                      
  Address:                                                                                   
  Date Prepared:                  Solicitation Number:                     
  Item/Service:                                                                           
  Place of Performance:                                                                            


1. TYPE OF PLAN: (Check only one).
|         |INDIVIDUAL PLAN: In this type of plan, all elements are developed specifically for this contract and are applicable for|
|         |the full term of this contract.                                                                                        |
|         |MASTER PLAN: In this type of plan, goals are separately developed for this contract in an individual plan; all other   |
|         |elements are standard. The master plan must be approved once every three (3) years. Once incorporated into a contract  |
|         |with specific goals, it is valid for the life of the contract.                                                         |
|         |COMMERCIAL PLAN: This type of plan is used when the contractor sells products and services customarily used for        |
|         |non-government purposes. Plans and goals are negotiated with the initial agency on a company-wide basis rather than for|
|         |individual contracts. The plan is effective only during year approved. The contractor must provide a copy of the       |
|         |initial agency approval, and must submit an annual Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR) in the electronic Subcontracting|
|         |Reporting System (eSRS) to Treasury with a breakout of subcontracting prorated for Treasury (with a further bureau     |
|         |breakout, if possible).                                                                                                |



2. GOALS:
FAR 19.704(a)(1) requires dollar and percentage goals for using small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, women-
owned small business, veteran-owned small business, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns as subcontractors for the base
year and each option year.  (Please note that the goals for HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, women-owned small business,
veteran-owned small business, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns are sub-sets of the small business goal).   Express all
dollar goals as a percentage of total planned subcontracting dollars.   Zero percentage/dollar goals are NOT ACCEPTABLE and will not be
approved.

  A. Estimated dollar value of all planned subcontracting, i.e., to all types of business concerns under this contract is:
|Estimated Dollar Value of All Planned Subcontracting                                      |
|Base      |1st Option        |2nd Option         |3rd Option        |4th Option           |
|$         |$                 |$                  |$                 |$                    |
|100%      |100%              |100%               |100%              |100%                 |


  B. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to small business concerns is: (Include HUBZone Small, Small
Disadvantaged, Women-owned Small Business, Veteran-owned Small Business and Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business)
      *(This figure includes the amount in C., D., E., F., and G. below.)
|Subcontracting to Small Business Concerns                                   |
|Base    |1st Option     |2nd Option      |3rd Option      |4th Option      |
|$       |$              |$               |$               |$               |
|%       |%              |%               |%               |%               |


  C. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to HUBZone small business concerns is:
|Subcontracting to HUBZone Small Business Concerns                                   |
|Base     |1st Option       |2nd Option        |3rd Option        |4th Option        |
|$        |$                |$                 |$                 |$                 |
|%        |%                |%                 |%                 |%                 |


  D. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to small disadvantaged business concerns is:
|Subcontracting to Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns                                    |
|Base     |1st Option         |2nd Option          |3rd Option         |4th Option         |
|$        |$                  |$                   |$                  |$                  |
|%        |%                  |%                   |%                  |%                  |








  E. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to women-owned small business concerns is:
|Subcontracting to Women-Owned Small Business Concerns                                       |
|Base     |1st Option         |2nd Option          |3rd Option          |4th Option          |
|$        |$                  |$                   |$                   |$                   |
|%        |%                  |%                   |%                   |%                   |


  F. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to veteran-owned small business concerns is:
|Subcontracting to Veteran-Owned Small Business Concerns                                      |
|Base      |1st Option         |2nd Option          |3rd Option          |4th Option          |
|$         |$                  |$                   |$                   |$                   |
|%         |%                  |%                   |%                   |%                   |


  G. Estimated dollar value and percentage of total planned subcontracting to service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns is:
|Subcontracting to Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concerns                                               |
|Base        |1st Option               |2nd Option                |3rd Option                |4th Option                |
|$           |$                        |$                         |$                         |$                         |
|%           |%                        |%                         |%                         |%                         |


  ** IF ANY CONTRACT HAS MORE THAN FOUR OPTIONS, PLEASE ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS SHOWING DOLLAR AMOUNTS AND PERCENTAGES.


  H.  Supplies and/or services to be subcontracted under this contract, business size (i.e., SB, HUBZone, SDB, WOB, VOSB, SDVOSB, and LB), and
     the estimated dollar expenditure are: (Check all that apply).
  I.
|Business Category or Size                                                                                                 |                 |
|Supply/                                                                                                                           |
|Service                                                                                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |


    I2. Explain how the product and service areas to be subcontracted were established, how the areas to be subcontracted to small, HUBZone
small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were determined.
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |



13. How the capabilities of small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-
owned small business concerns were determined.
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |


    14. Identify all source lists used in the determination process.
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |


    J. Indirect and overhead costs       HAVE BEEN or       HAVE NOT BEEN included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals stated
above. (Check one.)


    K. If indirect and overhead costs HAVE BEEN included, explain the method used to determine the proportionate share of such costs to be
allocated as subcontracts to small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-
owned small business concerns.


    |                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |

3. PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR:
FAR 19.704(a)(7) requires information about the company employee who will administer the subcontracting program. Please provide the name, title,
address, phone number, fax number, e:mail address, and position within the corporate structure and the duties of that employee.
Name: ____________________
Title: _____________________
Position: __________________
Address: _________________________________________________________
Telephone: _________________
Fax Number: ________________
E:Mail Address: _____________________

Duties: The Program Administrator’s general overall responsibility for the Contractor’s subcontracting program, i.e., developing, preparing, and
executing individual subcontracting plans and monitoring performance relative to this particular plan. These duties may include, but are not
limited to the following activities.   Does the individual named above perform the following?  (If NO is checked, please indicate who in the
company performs those duties, or indicate why the duties are not performed in your company.)

  A. Developing and promoting company/division policy statements that demonstrate the company’s/division’s support for awarding contracts and
subcontracts to small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small
business concerns.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  B. Developing and maintaining bidders’ lists of small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service
disabled veteran-owned small business concerns from all possible sources.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  C. Ensuring periodic rotation of potential subcontractors on bidders’ lists.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  D. Assuring that small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small
business concerns are included on the bidders’ list for every subcontract solicitation for products and services they are capable of providing.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  E. Ensuring that subcontract procurement “packages” are designed to permit the maximum possible participation of small, HUBZone small, small
disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  F. Reviewing subcontract solicitations to remove statements, clauses, etc., which might tend to restrict or prohibit small, HUBZone small,
small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business participation.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  G. Ensuring that the subcontract bid proposal review board documents its reasons for not selecting any low bids submitted by small, HUBZone
small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  H. Overseeing the establishment and maintenance of contract and subcontract award records.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  I. Attending or arranging for the attendance of company counselors at Business Opportunity Workshops, Minority Business Enterprise Seminars,
Trade Fairs, etc.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  J. Directly or indirectly counseling small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns on subcontracting opportunities and how to prepare responsive bids to the company
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  K. Providing notice to subcontractors concerning penalties for misrepresentations of business status as small, HUBZone small, small
disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, or service disabled veteran-owned small business for the purpose of obtaining a
subcontract that is to be included as part or all of a goal contained in the contractor’s subcontracting plan.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  L. Conducting or arranging training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of Public Law 95-507 on purchasing procedures.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  M. Developing and maintaining an incentive program for buyers which supports the subcontracting program.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  N. Monitoring the company’s performance and making any adjustments necessary to achieve the subcontract plan goals.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  O. Preparing and submitting timely reports.
      ____ YES         ____ NO


  P. Coordinating the company’s activities during compliance reviews by Federal agencies.
      ____ YES         ____ NO
4. EQUITABLE OPPORTUNITY
FAR 19.704(a)(8) requires a description of the efforts your company will make to ensure that small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged,  women-
owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns will have an equitable opportunity to compete for
subcontracts. These efforts may include, but are not limited to the following activities: (Check all that apply.)
  A. Outreach efforts to obtain sources:
|         |Contacting minority and small business trade associations                                                              |
|         |                                                                                                                       |
|         |Contacting business development organizations                                                                          |
|         |                                                                                                                       |
|         |Finding sources from the Dynamic Small Business Search of the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) System at          |
|         |http://www.ccr.gov                                                                                                     |
|         |Attending small, HUBZone, minority, women-owned, veteran-owned, & service disabled veteran-owned small business        |
|         |procurement conferences and trade fairs                                                                                |


  B. Internal efforts to guide and encourage purchasing personnel:
|         |Presenting workshops, seminars and training programs                                                                   |
|         |                                                                                                                       |
|         |Establishing, maintaining and using small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, |
|         |and service disabled veteran-owned small business source lists, guides and other data for soliciting subcontracts      |
|         |Monitoring activities to evaluate compliance with the subcontracting plan                                              |
|         |                                                                                                                       |


  C. Additional efforts: (Please describe.)
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |

5. CLAUSE INCLUSION AND FLOWDOWN
FAR 19.704(a)(9) requires that your company provide assurances that it will include the clause at FAR 52.219-8, “Utilization of Small Business
Concerns,” in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities.  FAR 52.219-9(d)(9) also requires that your company agrees in
this plan that it will require all subcontractors, except small business concerns, that receive subcontracts in excess of $550,000 ($1,000,000
for construction) to adopt a plan that complies with the requirements of FAR 52.219-9, “Small Business Subcontracting Plan.”
                                                                                        [Insert company name] agrees that the clause will be
included and that the plans will be reviewed against the minimum requirements for such plans. The acceptability of percentage goals for small,
HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns must be
determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the supplies and services involved, the availability of potential small, HUBZone small, small
disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business subcontractors and prior experience.
Once the plans are negotiated, approved, and implemented, the plans must be monitored through the submission of periodic reports, including the
Individual Subcontracting Report and the Summary Subcontracting Report submitted through the electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS).

6. REPORTING AND COOPERATION
FAR 19.704(a)(10) requires that your company (1) cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required, (2) submit periodic reports which show
compliance with the subcontracting plan; (3) submit Individual Subcontracting Report and Summary Subcontracting Report through the electronic
Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS); and (4) ensure that subcontractors agree to submit the Individual Subcontracting Report and the Summary
Subcontracting Report through the electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS).  The cognizant Contracting Officer of the Treasury bureau
awarding the contract must approve the reports through the eSRS system.  The reports  must be submitted electronically through the eSRS system
within 30 days after the close of each calendar period. That is:

|Calendar Period  |Report Due                     |Date Due  |Send Report Through the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System   |
|                 |                               |          |(eSRS) to:                                                           |
|10/01–03/31      |Individual Subcontracting      |04/30     |Contracting Officer/Bureau Small Business Specialist                 |
|                 |Report (old SF 294)            |          |                                                                     |
|04/01–09/30      |Individual Subcontracting      |10/30     |Contracting Officer/Bureau Small Business Specialist                 |
|                 |Report (old SF 294)            |          |smallbusiness@bpd.treas.gov                                          |
|10/01–09/30      |Summary Subcontracting Report  |10/30     |Contracting Officer/Bureau Small Business Specialist/Department of   |
|                 |(old SF 295*)                  |          |the Treasury Office of Small Business Development                    |


  *Summary Subcontracting Report must also be submitted to SBA’s
  Commercial Market Representative


  |Contracting Officer’s Address is:                  |Bureau Small Business Specialist       |Department of the Treasury Office of |
|_________________________                          |address is:                            |Small Business Development address   |
|_________________________                          |Bureau of the Public Debt, Attn:       |is:                                  |
|_________________________                          |Loretta Osuna Cotto                    |Department of the Treasury, Attn:    |
|_________________________                          |200 Third Street                       |Director,                            |
|                                                   |Avery 5-F                              |Office of Small Business Development,|
|                                                   |Parkersburg, WV 26101                  |1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Mail   |
|                                                   |                                       |Code 655 15th/6099, Washington, DC   |
|                                                   |                                       |20220                                |
7. RECORDKEEPING
FAR 19.704(a)(11) requires a list of the types of records your company will maintain to demonstrate the procedures adopted to comply with the
requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan. (Check all that apply.) (If NO is checked, please indicate why these types of records are not
maintained.)  These records include, but are not limited to, the following:

  A. Small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business concern
source lists, guides, and other data identifying such vendors.
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  B. Organizations contacted for small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-
owned small business sources.
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  C. On a contract-by-contract basis, records on all subcontract solicitations over $100,000 which indicate for each solicitation:
  C1. Whether small business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not.
  C2. Whether HUBZone small business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not.
  C3. Whether small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not.
  C4. Whether women-owned small business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not.
  C5. Whether veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not
  C6. Whether service disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited, and if not, why not
  C7. Reasons for the failure of solicited small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned
small business concerns to receive the subcontract award.
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  D. Records to support other outreach efforts, e.g., contacts with minority and small business trade associations, attendance at small, HUBZone
small, minority, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small business procurement conference and trade
fairs.
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  E. Records to support internal activities to (1) guide and encourage purchasing personnel, e.g., workshops, seminars, training programs,
incentive awards; and (2) monitor activities to evaluate compliance.
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  F. On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support subcontract award data including the name, address and business size and ownership
status (SB, HUBZone, SDB, WOB, VOSB, SDVOSB, etc.) of each subcontractor. (This item is not required for company or division-wide commercial
plans).
  ____ YES       ____ NO


  G. Other records to support your compliance with the subcontracting plan: (Please describe)
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |

8. TIMELY PAYMENTS TO SUBCONTRACTORS
FAR 19.702 requires your company to establish and use procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of your
subcontracts with small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small
business concerns.
                                                                                                        [Insert company name] has established and
uses such procedures:
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |

9. DESCRIPTION OF GOOD FAITH EFFORT
Maximum practicable utilization of small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled
veteran-owned small business concerns as subcontractors in Government contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and economic
benefits. When a contractor fails to make a good faith effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are not achieved, and
15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F) directs that the contractor must pay liquidated damages. In order to demonstrate your compliance with a good faith effort
to achieve the small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service disabled veteran-owned small
business subcontracting goals, outline the steps your company plans to take. These steps will be negotiated with the contracting officer prior
to approval of the plan.
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                  |

The offeror is advised that this subcontracting plan will be made a material part of the contract and that the submission of the Individual
Subcontracting Report and the Summary Subcontracting Report  will be made a not-separately-priced line item deliverable in the contract.



10. SIGNATURES REQUIRED
Company Signatures:
|This subcontracting plan was submitted by:                      |
|Signature:                                                      |
|Typed Name:                                                     |
|Title:                                                          |
|Date:                                                           |

Government Signatures:
|This subcontracting plan was reviewed by:                     |
|Signature:                                                    |
|Typed Name:                                                   |
|Title: Contracting Officer                                    |
|Date:                                                         |

|This subcontracting plan was reviewed by:                     |
|Signature:                                                    |
|Typed Name:                                                   |
|Title: Small Business Specialist                              |
|Date:                                                         |

|This subcontracting plan was reviewed by:                                                                |
|Signature:                                                                                               |
|Typed Name:                                                                                              |
|Title: Small Business Administration Procurement Center Representative                                   |
|Date:                                                                                                    |

|This subcontracting plan was approved by:                                                                                        |
|Signature:                                                                                                                       |
|Typed Name:                                                                                                                      |
|Title: Director, Office of Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization (or designee if applicable)                                  |
|Date:                                                                                                                            |

|This subcontracting plan was accepted by:                     |
|Signature:                                                    |
|Typed Name:                                                   |
|Title: Contracting Officer                                    |
|Date:                                                         |


