12WH631-009 - ITS Modernization (Equipment)
v1.0.1a

EQUIPMENT / HARDWARE DESCRIPTION QTY
35 35 35 35 35 01

WHS/ESD/DPO UNIT
EACH EACH EACH EACH EACH EACH

DDMP/DMM PART / SERVICE #
MC55AO-P40SWQQA9WR Extended 3600 mAh Battery W6431DW:MC75 CRD5500-100UR (slot/sync chg) 25-68596-01R (comm cable) Extended 3600 mAh Battery **** SSB-MC55XX-30

APR-05-2012 TYPE
MC55 MC75 MC55 MC55 MC55 3-yr Bronze Service Comprehensive

ITEM

MANUFACTURE
MOTOROLA / SYMBOL ULTIMA CASE MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL ULTIMA CASE MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL See PWS Section 1.4.5 See PWS Section 1.4.6 **** MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL

Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) CLIN 0001 2D Imager (barcode support) PDA Carry Holster Ballistic Nylon type w/ multi-position belt loop 1-Slot USB/Sync - Charge Cradle kit; to include all associated power supply, connection and communication cables Standard PDA battery Stylus and Tether Extended Service Warranty Agreement

CLIN 0002

Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) Linear 1D (barcode support) PDA Carry Holster Ballistic Nylon type w/ multi-position belt loop 1-Slot USB/Sync - Charge Cradle kit; to include all associated power supply, connection and communication cables S d d PDA b Standard battery Stylus and Tether Extended Service Warranty Agreement CUSTOM HARDWARE

35 35 35 35 35 01

EACH EACH EACH EACH EACH EACH

MC55AO-P20SWQQA9WR Extended 3600 mAh Battery W6431DW:MC75 CRD5500-100UR (slot/sync chg) 25-68596-01R (comm cable) E Extended d d 3600 mAh Ah B Battery **** SSB-MC55XX-30

MC55 MC75 MC55 MC55 MC55 3-yr Bronze Service Comprehensive **** **** **** MC55 MC55

CLIN 0003 CLIN 0004

Package/Parcel Hardware 1 Package/Parcel Hardware & Software 2 ACCESSORIES

1 1 **** 10 50

EACH EACH **** EACH PACK

**** **** **** CRD5500-400CR KT-119150-50R

CLIN 0005 CLIN 0006

4-Slot PDA Charge only cradle kit ­ to include Power supply w/ US AC Line cord Standard PDA spare stylus and tether Two (02) Packs

12WH631-009 - ITS Modernization (Equipment)
CLIN 0007 CLIN 0008 CLIN 0009 Standard PDA spare battery Two (02) Packs Screen Protector Kits - (03 piece kits) Desk Top Handheld Gun Bar Code Scanner ­ to include USB connection cables 50 70 20 PACK KIT EACH MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL MOTOROLA / SYMBOL Extended 3600 mAh Battery KT-67525-01R LS4208-SBZU0100SR MC55 MC55 LS4208

Performance Work Statement ITS- Modernization (WHS/ITS)
September 12, 2012 1. 1.1 General Information Introduction: The requirement is to modernize the existing manual package/parcel processes with automated hardware and software and to integrate the software systems with the existing legacy systems. The government requires increased tracking, accountability and metrics reporting of individual deliveries to include packages, parcels, cargo, and official correspondence. This initiative shall be carried out in two stages: Modernize the existing manual processing functions and capabilities, automate data entry for inbound shipments Integrate the software systems with the existing legacy systems Background of Requirement: Package, Parcel, Freight, Food, Special Events and Services are received weekdays at the Pentagon Remote Delivery Facility (PRDF). The Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA) verifies screens and approves entry to the PRDF for deliveries to be processed by the Pentagon Dockmaster Office (PDO). The Pentagon Dockmaster Office (PDO) is the official WHS/FSD tracking, receiving and accountability arm for the Pentagon. Scope: The general nature of the work is for the contractor to provide management, labor, tools, supplies, and material required to modernize the manual package/parcel receiving and tracking processes, functionality and capabilities. Integrate the software solution with the existing Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) enterprise family systems," WHS legacy systems; Integrated Tracking System (ITS), Star Receiver Material Tracking System (SRMTS), Bear Tracks Material Tracking System (BT), and the Digital Delivery Mail Program (DDMP). Analyze and establish business rules, processing procedures, timelines and human capital requirements. Establish, evaluate, and understand the requirements necessary to modernize and integrate systems and processes on a larger regional scale.

1.1.1

1.1.2 1.1.3

1.1.4

The areas of emphasis are: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Hardware and Software Modernization, Integration and Implementation Systems Deployment Systems Integrations Systems Testing Systems Platform Development Documentation and Guides (manuals) Training

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.2 Government Furnished. At the discretion of and approval by the government, provide to the contractor: Description On-site office space for contractor personnel at various operating locations, subject to requirements and space availability. Contractor personnel may be provided a standard workspace, which includes computer desktop, network and printer access, office supplies, phone, facsimile and access to a copier. Personal communication devices (e.g., BlackBerry, pager, cell phone, etc.) for critical contractor personnel. Applicable and relevant technical data and software licensing currently in existence will be provided to the contractor.

GFE Workspace and Office Equipment

Personal Devices Technical Data and Software Licenses 1.3

Contractor Furnished. The contractor shall provide all labor, software, and other materials required to meet performance requirements.

Fully Functional Modernization Solution: The contractor shall procure, on behalf of the WHS/FSD/PDO, a complete, useable and fully functional system consisting of all hardware, and software. The contractor shall integrate the modernization solution software with the existing (WHS) enterprise family systems, and customize the hardware solution to conform to environment specifications; (see Environment Document). The modernization solution must integrate and function with existing legacy systems; Integrated Tracking System (ITS), Star Receiver (SRMTS), Bear Tracks (BT), Digital Delivery Mail Program (DDMP) / Digital Mail Modernization (DMM). Washington Headquarters Service (WHS) must be the licensee of any software, not the contractor and all hardware will be government owned, not leased. Follow-on Operations and Maintenance for ITS-Modernization The contractor shall provide support services to WHS/FSD/PDO to 1) operate, maintain, and sustain the WHS/ITS hardware and software. Estimated Period of Performance Period Date Base September 28, 2012 ­ September 27, 2013 Option Period One September 28, 2013 ­ September 27, 2014 Option Period Two September 28, 2014 ­ September 27, 2015 Option Period Three September 28, 2015 ­ September 27, 2016 1.4 Major Functional Area Required Outputs and Performance Levels. The contractor shall meet or exceed the performance levels for the required outputs listed below. Required outputs and performance levels of high interest are summarized in paragraph 1.5, Performance-based Matrix. Contents of the Performance-based Matrix may be modified during contract performance to reflect changing priorities and performance requirements.
2|Page

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.1 Hardware and Software Integration and Implementation: In accordance with provided salient characteristics, the contractor shall/the system shall be able to/have/provide the: Integrate software and hardware into the (WHS) enterprise family systems, designed to enhance the tracking, accountability and identification functionalities to allow increased support to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Secretary of Defense along with other top-level executives, Pentagon population and supported lease facilities. The system will facilitate performance matrix reporting and key real time identification. It takes advantage of "Green initiatives" by reducing the paper trails associated with the tracking and accountability of incoming material deliveries, services and correspondence. Enable digital routing, management and POC identification of inbound packages, parcels and correspondence. Increase tracking and accountability of individual deliveries and correspondence. Increase verifiers for security identification and investigations. Identify plan for implementation throughout the National Capital Region (NCR) Implement Fully Functional Modernization Solution; Ensure all documentation and security controls (patching, etc.) for Defense Information Assurance (IA) Certification Accreditation Program (DIACAP) is completed on time to allow system to be placed in production and operational by expected project delivery date;

1.4.1.1

1.4.1.2 1.4.1.3

1.4.1.3.1 The contractor shall possess hands-on experience and technical expertise in the use and analysis of a variety of IA guides, tools, and products to include the associated output results and reports, such as: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Security Technical Implementation Guides, or STIG, (NSA, DISA, and vendor equivalent) Host- and network-based audit tools FSO Gold and Platinum Disks Project System Requirement Specification DISA FSO SRR Scripts (Windows and Unix)

1.4.1.3.2 The contractor shall comply with the appropriate WHS, DoD, and NIST-approved IA architecture, policies, programs, standards and guidelines, such as: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ IA policies DoD Directive 8500.1, Information Assurance DoD Instruction 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) Global Information Grid (GIG) IA Technical Framework DII Common Operating Environment (COE) WHS Computer Incident Response Guide NIST Special Publication 800-53
3|Page

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) ˇ ˇ
ˇ

Department of Defense (DOD) Information Operations Condition (INFOCON) System Procedures SD 527-1 DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Policy (DIACAP) 8510.01, or other DoD accreditation directives/guidance/instructions IEEE 802.11 Wireless Standards The contractor shall complete security checklists, ensuring that each reflects the corresponding STIG to ensure all key security requirements of the STIG are covered during the security readiness review (SRR). Report Results of scans in the Vulnerability Management System. comply with Section 508 Standards, and the Privacy Act. If system is to be implemented in the Defense Continuity Integrated Network (DCIN), process for implementation must be followed; provide full requirements gathering review and documentation; initial configuration and install on QA servers; configure integrations between modernization solution software and (WHS) enterprise family systems analysis, documentation and configuration of control data. Some data will be brought over from Star Receiver while other data will be newly created; develop reporting tools for workflow particulars; QA all work and provide issues document; provide user guides, deployment guides, configuration guides; supply documents for C & A Package and authorization to operate; move software from QA to Production; provide admin, staff, user training for all updated and or enhanced software, hardware, processes, workflows

1.4.1.3.3

1.4.1.3.4 1.4.1.4

1.4.1.5 1.4.1.6 1.4.1.7

1.4.1.8

1.4.1.9 1.4.1.10 1.4.1.11 1.4.1.12 1.4.1.13 1.4.1.14

4|Page

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.1.15 Deliverables: ˇ Section 508 Compliance Report ˇ IA Documentation for Certification and Accreditation ˇ Defense Continuity Information Network (DCIN) Request Form ˇ Privacy Impact Assessment ˇ Design and Architecture Document ˇ Change Management Document ˇ Operations Manual ˇ Issues Control Document

1.4.2 1.4.2.1

System Testing Implement in QA/Test Environment: Ensure QA/Test environment is setup and Implement Fully Functional Modernization Solution in this environment prior to production deployment; continue to support production, and post-production stages. User Acceptance Testing: Coordinate with WHS/FSD and WHS/ESD management to develop user acceptance test (UAT) scenarios. Assist customer in conducting UAT scenarios in QA/Test environment (to include test data creation, system functions and interfaces, and reporting, etc).

1.4.2.2

1.4.2.3 Deliverables: ˇ System Test Cases & Scripts ˇ System Test Results ˇ User Acceptance Test Cases ˇ User Acceptance Test Report

1.4.3 1.4.3.1

System Deployment Authority To Operate (ATO): All Information Assurance requirements and documentation are completed and vetted and IA scan findings are mitigated and documented in accordance with the DoD FISMA POA&M for DAA Authorization to Operate (ATO).

1.4.3.1.1 Coordinate deployment with Operations and Maintenance contractor team (applies to pilot, production, and post-production stages). 1.4.3.1.2 Comply with the WHS Enterprise Information Technology Services Directorate (EITSD) methodologies and Software Development Life Cycle process.

5|Page

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.3.2 Implement Fully Functional Hardware and Software Modernization Solution in Production Environment: Ensure production environment is set up and implement through coordination with Operations and Maintenance (O&M), in this environment.

1.4.3.3 Deliverables: ˇ Production Implementation Plan ˇ System Deployment Instructions ˇ Authorization to Operate

1.4.4

"Imaging System" ­ Package/Parcel Material Processing/Handling Software: Provide Package/Parcel imaging software with the following salient characteristics which shall/provide/have/be able to: creation of business rules and templates to modify business processes at the user level; integrate package/parcel imaging software with (WHS) enterprise family systems; visually monitor image display of package/parcel carrier/courier shipping labels; push identified data, required to create automated accountability records, to the existing (WHS) enterprise family systems; push captured images to the designated (WHS) enterprise family systems; push captured data to the designated (WHS) enterprise family systems; identify, record and push sender and recipient data ­ name, address, zip code, company, etc. to the designated package/parcel record creation software; programmable business rules and template creation ability at the user level; manual identification process for package/parcels that are difficult to identify automatically; integrate stand alone work station for manual visual processing of package/parcels unreadable by the system; high-speed imaging processer; support and provide multiple criteria format reporting features; receive Customer Base Tables data input from (WHS) enterprise family systems;
6|Page

1.4.4.1

1.4.4.2 1.4.4.3 1.4.4.4

1.4.4.5 1.4.4.6 1.4.4.7

1.4.4.8 1.4.4.9

1.4.4.10

1.4.4.11 1.4.4.12 1.4.4.13

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.4.14 1.4.4.15 1.4.4.16 1.4.4.17 1.4.4.18 on-line help and systems support; Omni Directional Optical Character Recognition (OCR); handprint and print recognition (OCR); duplex color imaging at 300dpi; locate, identify and image carrier/courier shipping labels from multiple views/angles, 5 side reading with redundant coverage; audit reporting traceable to end user activities; operator-selected image format; default is Portable Document Format (PDF) and Tagged Image File Format (TIFF) or JPEG - Joint Photographic Experts Group format at 300 dpi color barcode recognition­ UPS, Federal Express, DHL, USPS certified, Intelligent Mail Barcode (IMB), Postnet (4 ­ state), legacy system bar code, etc.; allow the imaging system to be controllable by user-specific sort programs; allow user-specific programs for selection by: Recipient Name - address, zip code, organization, building, floor, PO Box Sender Name-address, zip code, organization, building, and floor, PO Box Generic Mail Forwarded Mail or Returned Mail; landscape and portrait scanning up to 11 x 17 inches. include software in the service contract ­ System upgrades, enhancements, repair, and replacement; alert user/operator of unidentifiable recipient and or unreadable carrier/courier bar code labels; systems and hardware training and support for all user levels ­ administration, management, supervisor, staff, user, customer etc.; read, identify and image hand written labels at 75 % accuracy rate; read, identify and image printed labels at 95 % accuracy rate (all font styles); identify, capture and image barcodes and shipping labels from various carriers at 300dpi color; capture and identification of sender block, recipient block;
7|Page

1.4.4.19 1.4.4.20

1.4.4.21

1.4.4.22 1.4.4.23

1.4.4.24 1.4.4.25

1.4.4.26

1.4.4.27

1.4.4.28 1.4.4.29
1.4.4.30

1.4.4.31

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.4.32 automatically recognizes both sender and recipient address blocks regardless of their orientation with respect to the sorter; package/parcel, flats imaging capabilities Omni directional code reading independent of product position; combined identification system; image capture, bar code reading, weight and volume, etc; volume, dimensions and weight measurement data capture; camera system focuses in conjunction with measurement system; coordinate all systems development and deployment with the legacy contractor to ensure successful systems/software integrations and equipment/hardware operational capabilities; coordinate and develop project/program plan with legacy contractor to ensure project/program task assignments are documented, tracked and completed;

1.4.4.33 1.4.4.34 1.4.4.35

1.4.4.36 1.4.4.37 1.4.4.38

1.4.4.39

1.4.5

Package/Parcel Material Processing/Handling Equipment/Hardware (A): Provide Package/Parcel Hardware with the following salient characteristics which shall/provide/have/be able to: custom solution package/parcel processing hardware to conform to and operate within facility environment specifications; (refer to environment document) inbound and outbound package/parcel processing hardware; process package/parcels up to 70 lbs; process package/parcels up to 34"wide x 34"height x 48"length; integrated weight scale up to 100 lbs. measurement systems and hardware training and support for all user levels ­ administration, management, supervisor, staff, user, customer etc.; process UPS, Federal Express, DHL, USPS flats, packages/parcels; include equipment in a service contract­scheduled maintenance, upkeep, repair, replacement and parts; four-hour technical hardware response time for parts and labor;
8|Page

1.4.5.1

1.4.5.2 1.4.5.3 1.4.5.4 1.4.5.5 1.4.5.6

1.4.5.7 1.4.5.8

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS)

1.4.5.9 1.4.5.10 1.4.5.11

maximum courier/carrier label read rate with minimal package/parcel spacing; emergency shut off features - automatic and manual functionality; provide Material Processing Equipment/Hardware safety covers ­ Safety covers to encompass moving machine parts, see through in nature with heat and dust venting design, lift cover access points, ability to remove/separate cover from equipment/hardware; continuous rotating amber light while equipment/ hardware is operating; quiet operation, low power, low noise, low maintenance conveyor type material handling hardware; modular component design with adjustable leg floor supports; custom solution package/parcel processing equipment/hardware/software to operate and function with imaging system software; conveyor assembly sections to operate and process independently for conserved power consumption and package/parcel product zero-contact spacing; conveyor lift gates for accessibility to both sides of the conveyor with product line stop/halt capabilities; flexible/adjustable package/parcel loading conveyor section from vehicle to material handling equipment/hardware; coordinate all systems development and deployment with the legacy contractor to ensure successful systems/software integrations and equipment/hardware operational capabilities; coordinate and develop project/program plan with legacy contractor to ensure project/program task assignments are documented, tracked and completed;

1.4.5.12 1.4.5.13

1.4.5.14 1.4.5.15

1.4.5.16

1.4.5.17

1.4.5.18

1.4.5.19

1.4.5.20

1.4.6

Package/Parcel Material Processing/Handling Equipment/Hardware & Software (B): Provide Package/Parcel Hardware & Software with the following salient characteristics which shall/provide/have/be able to: automatic feed material processing hardware; barcode recognition­ UPS, Federal Express, DHL, USPS certified, Intelligent Mail Barcode (IMB), Postnet (4 ­ state), WHS legacy system bar codes, etc;
9|Page

1.4.6.1 1.4.6.2

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS)

1.4.6.3 1.4.6.4 1.4.6.5

integrate package/parcel sorter software with (WHS) enterprise family systems; verify and identify legacy system package record creation for each piece identify and alert operator/user when package/parcel has no existing legacy system package record identify and alert operator/user when package/parcel has unreadable courier/carrier bar code label; push specified package record accountability status to legacy system for record status documentation locate identify and scan courier/carrier shipping label, bar code and legacy system bar code/label from multiple views/angles, at 95% accuracy rate; maximum courier/carrier label read rate with minimal package/parcel spacing process package/parcels up to 70 lbs; process package/parcels up to 34"wide x 34"height x 48"length; automatic labeling application, labeling applied at 95% accuracy rate; support manual labeling application functionalities; process UPS, Federal Express, DHL, USPS flats, packages/parcels; emergency shut off features - automatic and manual functionality; Provide Material Processing Equipment/Hardware safety covers ­ Safety covers to encompass moving machine parts, see through in nature with heat and dust venting design, lift cover access points, ability to remove/separate cover from equipment/hardware; date and time stamp identification for each package/parcel processed; inbound and outbound processing; continuous rotating amber light while equipment/ hardware is operating; systems and hardware training and support for all user levels ­ administration, management, supervisor, staff, user, customer etc;
10 | P a g e

1.4.6.6

1.4.6.7

1.4.6.8

1.4.6.9 1.4.6.10 1.4.6.11 1.4.6.12 1.4.6.13 1.4.6.14 1.4.6.15 1.4.6.16

1.4.6.17 1.4.6.18 1.4.6.19 1.4.6.20

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) 1.4.6.21 include equipment in a service contract­scheduled maintenance, upkeep, repair, replacement and parts; four-hour technical hardware response time for parts and labor; coordinate all systems development and deployment with the legacy contractor to ensure successful systems/software integrations and equipment/hardware operational capabilities; coordinate and develop project/program plan with legacy contractor to ensure project/program task assignments are documented, tracked and completed;

1.4.6.22

1.4.6.23

1.4.7

Personnel Digital Assistant (PDA): Provide PDA handheld devices and hardware with the following salient characteristics which shall/provide/have/be able to: reference hardware /equipment document for specification requirements (Version 1.0); include hardware /equipment in a service contract­scheduled maintenance, upkeep, repair, replacement and parts; four-hour technical hardware response time for parts and labor; systems software and hardware training and support for all user levels ­ administration, management, supervisor, staff, user, etc.; operating system (OS) must be compatible and operate with WHS legacy system mobile software; provide 70 each PDA Bundles - Bundles to include: Sync/Charge cradles, connection cables, batteries, holsters, etc.; reference PWS Item # 1.4.7.1 and (Spec Doc Version 1.0); Installed and fully operational WHS legacy system mobile software; designated functions / options removed or deactivated from PDA; extended service and replacement agreement on all hardware; server based synchronization (PDA); 1D barcode laser scanner and 2D barcode imager / camera support coordinate all systems development and deployment with the legacy contractor to ensure successful systems/software integrations and equipment/hardware operational capabilities;
11 | P a g e

1.4.7.1

1.4.7.2

1.4.7.3

1.4.7.4

1.4.7.5

1.4.7.6 1.4.7.7 1.4.7.8 1.4.7.9 1.4.7.10 1.4.7.11

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS)

1.4.8

WHS legacy system mobile software installs and systems modernization hardware and software integrations are to be conducted and supported in conjunction with the current legacy system support contractor. Travel. Contractor travel to, from and within the NCR shall be billed by the contractor to the government for travel related expenses incurred under this task order. The government will reimburse the contractor for approved related travel expense cost incurred by contractor personnel on official company business, subject to the limitations contained in FAR 31.205-46, Travel Costs. Proposed contractor travel cost shall be submitted in advance to the Government's authorized contracting officer and/or task monitor for approval. Actual contractor travel cost shall be submitted to the Government's authorized contracting officer and/or task monitor, for review of reasonable travel related expenses in accordance with FAR 31.205-46, Travel Costs. Such direction will be made by the contracting officer via issuance of bilateral modification(s), on a cost reimbursement basis (with no burdens/mark-ups applied to the actual cost) to the task order against the government specified not-to-exceed amount. Performance-Based Matrix Performance Management

1.4.9

1.5

Desired End Result Fully integrated Performance Management Program

Area to be surveilled Overarching Performance Management

Performance Standard Briefing slides will be delivered to the Executives at least two full business days prior to the monthly meeting at least ninety percent (90%) of the time. Final monthly briefing presentations will contain accurate data with no more than one data error per month and no more than two administrative (presentation, grammar, spelling, etc.) errors per month.

Quality Incentives Assurance QASP CPARS interim and final for input into the Past Performance Information Retrieval (PPIRS) Database.

Data & Presentation Accuracy

QASP

CPARS interim and final for input into the Past Performance Information Retrieval (PPIRS) Database.

12 | P a g e

Performance Work Statement: ITS-Modernization (WHS/ITS) Desired End Result Area to be surveilled Data Model Completion Performance Standard Quality Incentives Assurance QASP CPARS interim and final for input into the Past Performance Information Retrieval (PPIRS) Database.

1.6 1.6.1

Complete Data Model within 60 days of contract award. Final Data model will be submitted and accepted by Government Task monitor/COR within 90 days of contract award. Administrative Requirements

Contractor Inspection System (as required by FAR 52.246-4). The contractor required inspection system will be a major focus of the Government Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). This system will be used as a window to monitor contract performance in lieu of Government detailed inspection of actual contractor work. The contractor shall ensure the inspection system provides for quality control elements such as a reporting system, corrective action procedures, trend analysis, and a process for externally auditing the system to ensure reliability. The contractor shall also ensure the inspection system contains continual risk management that addresses both contractor and Government risk areas, e.g., personnel turnover and the link between past problems and potential problems. The contractor is responsible for the overall quality of contract performance and for the management of its own workforce. The contractor off-site manager with responsibility for the successful performance of this contract must arrange with the COR for the conduct of a weekly telephonic conference with the COR to review contract performance. The COR for this contract may clarify contractor responsibilities within the requirements of the contract as specified by the Contracting Officer appointment memorandum. The Government will also designate task monitors to conduct quality assurance surveillance of their respective areas. All work to be performed under this contract is subject to Government surveillance at any time either on-site or virtual. That surveillance may be performed as in-process inspection, preliminary inspection, and/or final inspection. The method of inspection may include visual inspection of the work products and/or impromptu status discussion with the contractor. The Government Officials will:

1.6.1.1

1.6.1.2

1.6.1.3

1.6.1.4

ˇ Conduct surveillance of the activities and deliverables under their purview; ˇ Provide in-process clarification of the tasks that that they have previously identified; ˇ Review the monthly reports relative to paragraph 1.10 and submit a concise assessment of the monthly report to the COR, clearly indicating any work products found to be unacceptable; ˇ Report any performance problems (e.g. non-compliance with contract requirements, failing to meet acceptable quality levels) that they observe or discover to the COR immediately;
13 | P a g e

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program ˇ Accept conforming work products. 1.6.1.5 Government employees will not: ˇ supervise contractor employees; ˇ accept non-conforming work products without the express written approval of the Contracting Officer. 1.6.2 Security. All networks are designated as sensitive but unclassified / For Official Use Only. The contractor must provide adequate personnel with completed favorable background investigations at the appropriate level to support IT systems for Limited Privileged IT-II, Non- Privileged IT-III, noncritical- Sensitive ADP-II and Nonsensitive ADP-III. The background checks shall be in place prior to individuals reporting for duty at the required government location. Evidence of the completed background check shall be provided to the government customer. Further, the DODI 8500.2, IA Implementation, which can be obtained at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/index.html, requires that all personnel (this includes DoD military personnel, civilian personnel, consultants, and contractors) who perform work on sensitive automated information systems be assigned to duties that are designated at one of three (3) Sensitivity Levels: IT-I, IT-II, or IT-III (see Table 1). These designations equate to privileged, limited privileged and non-privileged access to network and information systems, and/or resources. Depending on the contractor's assigned Sensitivity Level (IT-I, IT-II, or ITIII), the corresponding investigation will be required (i.e. NACLC, SSBI). Any and all personnel replacing existing contractor staff shall comply with security requirements. Table 1 Sensitivity Level Minimum Required Investigation IT-I Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI); also supports granting of a TOP SECRET security clearance IT-II National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks (NACLC) (contractors); also supports granting of a SECRET security clearance IT-III National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks (NACLC) (contractors); also supports granting of a SECRET security clearance

Access Categories Privileged

Limited Privileged

Non- Privileged

The following IT Sensitivity Levels will apply: Table 2 Position Project Leaders, System Analysts, System Architects, and Senior Technicians with admin privileges to the servers. IT LEVEL IT-II

Contractor personnel will comply with contractor identification procedures including identification of contractor status or company in signature blocks, wearing an appropriately colored Pentagon or NCR 14

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program badge while in the Pentagon or other Government buildings, and identification of contractor status at meetings. The Government will provide authorized contractor personnel with the necessary Pentagon or NCR badge. The contractor shall comply with Government specified in-processing and outprocessing guidelines. 1.6.3 1.6.3.1 Contingency Operations DODI 3020.37. In accordance with DODI 3020.37, Continuation of Essential DoD Contractor Services during Crises, mission essential contractors are required to provide a contingency plan and designate mission essential personnel. The contractor is required to maintain updates to this plan as necessary and ensure that coverage is provided during realworld and exercise scenarios. COOP. Should a crisis be declared, the Contracting Officer will verbally advise the contractor of the revised requirements, followed by a written notification. Written notification will be sent as soon as practicable. The contractor will ensure contingency support is available for the continuation of essential DoD contractor services during a crisis situation. This support will be detailed in a contingency plan. In the event of mission essential system failure, which requires immediate attention, the contractor shall remedy the situation(s) in accordance with the performance standards outlined in Section 1.5, Performance-based Matrix. In the event of non-mission essential system failure not requiring immediate attention but requiring short turn-around time due to another exercise, the system must be repaired in a timely manner. See SS Section 2.0 for defined repair times. Any price changes resulting from this crisis will be negotiated in accordance with FAR clauses for "Changes." Relocation of persons providing services on this task order to a designated alternate site may be required during a Continuity of Operations situation. Each person providing services on this task order that are designated as essential is expected to use all means at their disposal to continue to provide such services during periods of crisis until appropriately released or evacuated by the proper civilian or military authority. Government Oversight of Contractor Employees The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining satisfactory standards of employee competency, conduct, and integrity and shall be responsible for taking such disciplinary action with respect to its employees as may be necessary to ensure satisfactory contract performance. In the event the contractor fails to remove any employee from the contract work whom the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's designated representative deems incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unfit, objectionable or whose continued employment on the work is deemed by the Government to be inimical to the Government's mission, the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's designated representative may require, in writing, the contractor to remove the employee from work under this contract and any other contract awarded to contractor by the Government. This contract incorporates 32 CFR 234, Conduct on the Pentagon Reservation. Any contractor employee that violates the standards of conduct prescribed by 32 CFR 234 shall be deemed unfit and otherwise objectionable under part § 234.7, Disorderly Conduct, and may be subject to removal from the contract work.

1.6.3.2

1.6.4 1.6.4.1

1.6.4.2

15

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program 1.6.4.3 This provision applies to all subcontractors or vendors of any tier utilized by contractor to perform the work. The contractor is responsible for incorporating this provision in all subcontracts or other contracts awarded by contractor to perform the work. For purposes of this provision, the terms "employee" or "contractor employee" includes all contractor, subcontractor or vendor employees of any tier utilized by contractor to perform the work. Data Rights. The Government and contractor have agreed to data rights as defined in DFARs 252.227-7013, Rights in technical data--Noncommercial Items and 252.227-7014, Rights in noncommercial computer software and noncommercial computer software documentation. Technical Data and Software Licenses. At the discretion and approval of the Government, applicable and relevant technical data and software licensing currently in existence will be provided to the contractor during initial transition. Non-Disclosure Agreements. The contractor is responsible for obtaining all non-disclosure agreements with all applicable corporate, supplier and sub-tier vendors with proprietary, restricted, competition sensitive, or any other restricted (e.g., non-foreign disclosure due to public law) data that will be used or accessed during the duration of this contract. Place of Performance. The primary place of performance will be at the Pentagon and other Government facilities within the NCR. In addition, the contractor may be required to provide support at other locations within the NCR, and occasionally at alternate sites outside the NCR. Hours of Operation and Performance

1.6.5

1.6.6

1.6.7

1.6.8

1.6.9

Normal Working Hours (NWHs): Sections Hours of Operations Overarching Performance Management 8:30 am to 5:00 pm (EST) Extended Working Hours (EWHs) are all hours outside of NWHs (including weekends and holidays). No overtime compensation shall be paid in support of this Performance Work Statement (PWS). 1.6.9.1 The contractor shall perform support services on-site (in Government work spaces) during NWHs for the purposes of supporting customers and the infrastructure. The contractor shall also provide limited on-site support during EWHs at no additional cost to the Government provided that the COR provides written notice to the contractor at least two (2) business days in advance, and specifies the task areas that require support; and, the total hours shift from NWHs to EWHs do not exceed a total of eighty (80) hours per month. The Government and contractor shall coordinate closely to ensure the best combinations of staff are available to meet operational requirements. The contractor is encouraged to propose work schedules for selected personnel during Normal and Extended Working Hours that optimize coverage for technical support services. In providing support during EWHs, the contractor shall be capable of providing at least 16

1.6.9.2

1.6.9.3

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program remote support within one (1) hour of receiving notification by the COR; however, depending on the nature of the activity/event, on-site support may be required. This type of support may occur on a scheduled or unscheduled basis. For scheduled on-site support activities, the contractor shall report for work at the time and place pre-arranged with the COR. For unscheduled on-site support activities, the contractor shall arrive on-site (ready to work) at the Government facility within one (1) hour after efforts at remote resolution have been discontinued or otherwise receiving notification that on-site support is required. 1.6.10 Information Assurance Training Requirements. Contractor personnel assigned to perform IA functions and responsibilities shall comply with DoD Directive 8570.1 "Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management" and its implementing Manual, DoD 8570.1-M. Contractor personnel shall complete applicable certification requirements not later than six months of being assigned to the IA function. The Contracting Officer, in conjunction with the COR will ensure that Contractor personnel are appropriately certified and provide verification to the Defense Eligibility Enrollment System (DEERs). The Government will provide the appropriate security form(s) (DD Form 254) and/or other documents required for the contractor to provide support on the contract. Section 508 Compliance. The contractor shall ensure that all electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this task order meet the applicable accessibility standards at 365 CFR 1194. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. This standard is viewable at http://www.section508.gov. Definitions

1.6.11

1.7

ADP-I Positions ­ Those positions in which the incumbent is responsible for the planning, direction, and implementation of a computer security program; major responsibility for the direction, planning and design of a computer system, including the hardware and software; or, can access a system during the operation or maintenance in such a way, and with a relatively high risk for causing grave damage, or realize a significant personal gain. ADP-II Positions ­ Those positions in which the incumbent is responsible for the-direction, planning, design, operation, or maintenance of a computer system, and whose work is technically reviewed by a higher authority of the ADP-I category to insure the integrity of the system. This is a critical sensitive position. Business Engineering ­ The actions required to analyze existing business processes and workflows in order to develop improvements and efficiencies when moving to digital processing. COR ­ Contracting Officer's Representative CPARS ­ Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System Critical Contractor Personnel ­ Those contractor personnel identified by the Government as COOP deployers. Data Spillage Incidents (DSI) ­ Defined in this document as a "Classified Message Incident" that occurs when someone transmits classified information over e-mail server(s) or any other information 17

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program system that has a lower security classification than the classification of the information (i.e. a secret document gets uploaded into a NIPR system). As a result, recovery from a DSI incident can be time consuming, expensive, and will result in the loss of productivity because e-mail server(s) or any other information system will be shutdown until recovery actions are completed. External IT Organization ­ those Information Technology support organizations outside of the Washington Headquarters Services Information Technology Management Directorate. Logical ­ is a graphical representation of the business requirements. They describe the things of importance to an organization and how they relate to one another, as well as business definitions and examples. FISMA ­ Federal Information Security Management Act (of 2002) NACLC ­ National Agency Check with Local Agency and Credit Check QASP ­ Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan Requirements Engineering ­ The actions required of capturing, structuring, and accurately representing the user's requirements so that they can be correctly embodied in systems which meet those requirements (i.e. are of good quality). Software Testing ­ is an empirical investigation conducted to provide stakeholders with information about the quality of the product or service under test, with respect to the context in which it is intended to operate. This includes, but is not limited to, Unit testing, Regression Testing, and Performance testing, Security testing the process of executing a program or application with the intent of finding software bugs. It can also be stated as the process of validating and verifying that a software program/application/product meets the business and technical requirements that guided its design and development, so that it works as expected and can be implemented with the same characteristics. SSBI ­ Single Scope Background Investigation STIG ­ Security Technical Implementation Guidelines Technical Services ­ Actions that include, but not limited to programming, system designing, system analysis, workflow and dataflow analysis, database analysis, and data migration. 1.8 Applicable Documents. The contractor shall ensure continuing adherence to generally accepted Government information technology policies and guidance applicable to the task order. This includes, but is not limited to, public laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, manuals, standards, memorandums, and instructions. The contractor shall comply with the appropriate DoD-approved architectures, programs, standards and guidelines, such as the Global Information Grid (GIG), Defense Information Infrastructure (DII) Strategic Technical Guidance (STG), DII Common Operating Environment (COE), Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) and Shared Data Environment (SHADE). The following listed references include documents released by federal, DoD, and governance agencies:

1.8.1 Federal Regulations. Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, "Management of Federal Resources," November 30, 2000 18

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program 1.8.2 Laws, Statutes, Codes and Rules

Public Law 100-235, "Computer Security Act of 1987," January 8, 1988 Public Law 106-344, 10 USCS § 2224, "Defense Information Assurance Program," October 20, 2000 United States Code, 29 U.S.C.794d, " Rehabilitation Act" of 1998 (http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Content&ID=13) United Stated Code, 5 U.S.C. § 552a, As Amended "The Federal Privacy Act," of 1974 (http://www.usdoj.gov/oip/privstat.htm) Department of Health and Human Services, 42 CFR Part 3, (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, "The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996" (http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/index.html) Department of Health and Human Services, 42 CFR Part 3, (Patient Safety Act) "The Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005," November 21, 2008 1.8.3 DoD Policies, Procedures, Directives, Instructions and Manuals

Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, "Department of Defense (DoD) Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA)," December 30, 1999. DoD IA policies, procedures, directives, instructions, and manuals are listed at http://iase.disa.mil/policy-guidance/index.html#cnd 1.8.4 DoD-Approved Architectures

Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, "Department of Defense Chief Information Officer Guidance and Policy Memorandum No. 6-8510 'Department of Defense Global Information Grid Information Assurance'," June 16, 2000 1.8.5 DoD Information Assurance Governance and Guidance

DoD CIO - various policy DISA Security Technical Guidelines- http://www.iase.disa.mil JTF GNO-https://www.jtfgno.mil Vulnerability Management System- https://www.vms.disa.mil

19

Performance Work Statement: Digital Delivery of Mail Program 1.8.6 Deliverables Title - Section 508 Compliance Report - IA Documentation for Certification and Accreditation - Defense Continuity Information Network (DCIN) Request Form - Privacy Impact Assessment - Design and Architecture Document - Change Management Document - Operations Manual - System Test Cases & Scripts - System Test Results - User Acceptance Test Cases - User Acceptance Test Report - Production Implementation Plan - System Deployment Instructions - Authorization to Operate - Training Manuals and Quick Guides - Systems user manuals - Equipment and hardware and systems troubleshooting guides Due Date 13 weeks after project initiation Frequency & Remarks once Format MS Word

PWS Paragraph# 1.4.1.14

1.4.2.3

1.4.3.3

1.4.9.10

13 weeks after project initiation; 12 weeks after production project start 6 weeks after production project initiation 13 weeks after project initiation

twice

MS Word

once

MS Word

once

MS Word

20

CCSF - Facility Environment Specifications ­ Jan. 2012
Bay Doors Bay Doors

79" Sloping Ramp with 118" Guard Rails

76"

Entry/Exit Door 40" 47"

160 ½"

286 ½" Floor to Light Fixture Height 91"

CPU
160" 27"

49"
160"

47" Equipment Column
109"

77" 233 ¼"

Station

26 ¼"

76"

76"

Equipment

Equipment

FLOOR SPACE FOR CUSTOM PACKAGE/PARCEL SORTER WHS/FSD ITS-Modernization

For Official Use Only - FOUO

Equipment / Hardware

FY2012 - Base Year FY2013 - Option Year 1 FY2014 - Option Year 2
Description
Package/Parcel Sorter Hardware 1: Hardware / Software Maintenance Support Training Travel Expense

Totals

Sub Totals Description
Package/Parcel Sorter Hardware 2: Hardware / Software Maintenance Support Training Travel Expense

Sub Totals Description
Personnel Digital Assistant (PDA): PDA Bundle - 70 Each Maintenance Support Travel Expense

N/A N/A N/A N/A Description

N/A N/A N/A N/A

Sub Totals
Hand-Gun Bar Code Scanner: Scanner Bundle - 20 Each

N/A

Sub Totals Description
PDA Accessories: Batteries Holsters

N/A N/A

Sub Totals Description
Charging Station Charging Station Bundle - 4-slot charge cradle - 10 Each

N/A

Sub Totals

FY TOTALS

COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION RFP 12WH631-009B WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES / ACQUISITION DIRECTORATE 1155 DEFENSE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON, DC 20301-1155
This is a combined synopsis/solicitation (previously posted on June 7, 2012) for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This solicitation and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-59. The Washington Headquarters Service, Acquisition Directorate (WHS/AD), Department of Defense, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1155 intends to purchase a variety of hardware, maintenance and associated accessories, a selection of which is on a brand name or equal basis, and a selection of which is custom. The associated North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code for this procurement is 33313 with a small business size standard of 1,000 employees. This is not a small business set-aside. Please see the attached documents: A. Attachment A - Integrated Tracking System - Equipment List. B. Attachment B - Integrated Tracking System - Performance Work Statement. C. Attachment C - Environment Document. D. Attachment D - Sample Price Spreadsheet

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: ˇ1. The Government will be hosting an industry day on Friday, September 14, 2012 at 10:00AM (EST) for this solicitation to address all questions and answers to all interested vendors for this solicitation. All interested vendors must be at the Pentagon Metro Visitor's Center at 9:30AM. Please note questions should be submitted via email to Tashona Beale, at tashona.beale@whs.mil, on or before 4:00PM (EST) on Thursday, 13 SEPTEMBER 2012 with the subject "Questions: ITS Modernization." For all information pertaining to the industry Q&A please contact William (Sonny) Biddix at william.biddix@whs.mil or 703-692-4007 for your registration. The meeting will be located Arlington, VA . ˇ2. All proposals shall be submitted via email and proposals must be for the items requested either brand name or equal. To be considered for award, proposals of "equal" products, including "equal" products of the brand name manufacturer, must meet the salient physical, functional, or performance characteristic specified in this request for proposals; clearly identify the item by Brand name, if any; and make or model number as defined in FAR 52.211-6. What to submit - All documents must be submitted electronically, in Times New Roman 12-pitch font on 8.5 x 11 paper. ˇa. Recommended Page limitations and format:    Cover letter in Word confirming unconditionally acceptance of the terms and conditions of the RFQ: 2 pages Technical Literature in Word, per paragraph 52.212-1(b)(4): 15 pages Price in MS Excel: 10 pages

ˇ3.

ˇ3.

The provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial, applies to this acquisition. Please note the following information within the aforementioned clause: a. FAR 52.212-1(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. b. FAR 52.212-1(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. Offerors are to include a completed copy of the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items, with their offer. Evaluation of proposals will be conducted per FAR 52.212-2 EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999). (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this request for proposals to the responsible contractor whose proposal is lowest price technically acceptable. The vendor's

ˇ4.

ˇ5.

proposal shall conform to the terms and conditions set forth by this RFP and are most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The Government will consider a quote to be eligible for award only if, on the quote due date and time, the contractor/quote satisfies all of the following elements, which will be evaluated on a pass/fail basis: (1) The contractor unconditionally accepts the terms and conditions of the RFP; (2) The contractor submits all required information specified in the RFP by the closing date/time; (3) The contractor meets all of the minimum salient characteristics specified in Attachments A and B. NOTE: Once declared ineligible, the contractor's quote will be rejected and the contractor cannot further compete for the contract award. (b) The following factor shall be used to evaluate proposals: ˇ(1) Price. Per FAR 52.217-5, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). ˇ6. ˇ7. Proposals must be firm-fixed-priced, and include all quantities listed. The points of contact (POC) for this request for proposal is Tashona Beale, email at tashona.beale@whs.mil. Contractors shall include Tax Identification Number, CAGE Code, Central Contractor Registration Number, DUNS Number, and applicable FSC Codes stated on their proposals. All questions should be submitted via email to Tashona Beale, at tashona.beale@whs.mil, on or before 4:00PM (EST) on Thursday, 13 SEPTEMBER 2012 with the subject "Questions: ITS Modernization." All proposals shall be submitted via email to Tashona Beale, at tashona.beale@whs.mil on or before 12:00PM (EST) on Friday, 21 SEPTEMBER 2012 with the subject "Proposals: IT Modernization" ˇ10.                 The following additional clauses shall apply to this acquisition: FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items FAR 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes or Executive OrdersCommercial Items FAR 52.212-5 (Dev) Contract Terms and Condition Required to Implement Statues or Executive OrdersCommercial Items (Deviation). FAR 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services FAR 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract FAR 52.219-9 Small Business Subcontracting Plan. FAR 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration. FAR 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interests When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. FAR 52.211-6 Brand Name or Equal. FAR 52.222-3 Convict Labor. FAR 52.222-19 Child Labor Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies. FAR 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities. FAR 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity. FAR 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities. FAR 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons. FAR 52.232-18 Availability of Funds. FAR 52.232-33 Payment by EFT - CCR.

ˇ8.

*9.

            

FAR 52.233-3 Protest After Award. FAR 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contracts. FAR 52.247-34 FOB Destination. FAR 52.253-1 Computer Generated Forms. DFARS 252.204-7004(Alt A) Required Central Contractor Registration, DFARS 252.211-7003 Item Identification and Validation, DFARS 252.212-7001 (Dev) Contract Terms and Conditions, DFARS 252.219-7003 Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DoD Contracts), DFARS 252.225-7001 Buy American Act and Balance of Payment Program, DFARS 252.225-7002 Qualifying Country Sources as Subcontractors, DFARS 252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests, DFARS 252.247-7023 (Alt III) Transportation of Supplies by Sea. WHS A&PO WAWF Invoicing Instruction (Apr 2010)

