RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 1 of 45

1.0. PURPOSE AND SCOPE    The Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service (Corps) is comprised of more than  6,700 fulltime public health professionals dedicated to delivering the Nation's public health  promotion and disease prevention programs and advancing public health science. Corps officers  serve in a variety of positions throughout the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  (HHS) and certain nonHHS Federal agencies and programs that focus on key areas of disease  control and prevention; biomedical research; regulation of food, drugs, and medical devices;  mental health and drug abuse; health care delivery; and international health.   As one of America's seven uniformed services, the Corps fills essential public health leadership  and service roles within the Nation's Federal Government agencies and programs. The Corps has  officers in the following professions:     Medical   Dental  Nurse  Pharmacist  Dietitian   Engineer  Environmental health officer   Mental health specialist  Health services officer  Scientist/researcher  Therapist   Veterinarian     The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is looking for a vendor to provide pay and  personnel services that supports the active duty and retired Corps Officers. The pay and  personnel services must be able to handle the collection of source documents, determination of  all pay categories, grosstonet calculations, and interface with all the various internal and  external systems required to ensure the accurate disbursement of funds, meet all reporting  needs and maintenance of all related IT systems. Once successfully implemented, the system  needs to be kept current: both for routine pay table adjustments and for changes to pay  calculations as mandated by the Secretary of HHS or Congress. The vendor is expected to draw  on their established methods, best business practices, and Government/industry experience.   2.0. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND   Payroll services are currently provided by the staff of the Commissioned Corps Systems Branch  (CCSB) using a webbased software system that collects data from source documents through  useraccessible transactions, calculates gross compensation and processes grosstonet  disbursements. Personnel orders are processed by both the Office of Commissioned Corps  Operations (OCCO) and the Commissioned Corps Compensation Branch (CB) who collect  records, maintain files, and perform personnel related transactions using the integrated  personnel order and payroll system.     The Administrative Operations Service (AOS) is responsible for maintaining and overseeing the  production of the Commissioned Corps officer's payroll using the Commissioned Corps  Personnel and Payroll system (CCP). CCSB, an organization within AOS, transmits all  Commissioned Corps Payroll to the Department of Treasury after each monthly payroll is  computed, validated and certified.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 2 of 45

Direct Access (DA). Direct Access is currently the System of Record for Licenses and  Certifications, Readiness compliance and officer HR data not tied to pay and benefits. It is  maintained for the benefit of the Corps by the United States Coast Guard. The ASH, OPHS, Coast  Guard and OMB are committed to migrating positions, the recruitment system, the applicant  system, the electronic call to active duty system, the promotion system, and the officer  evaluation system to Direct Access over the next 5 years. This will necessitate ongoing changes  to the pay and personnel system to accommodate these Direct Access implementations.  Commissioned Corps Personnel and Payroll System (CCP). CCP is the webbased, realtime,  workflow enabled, personnel and payroll management system providing electronic initiation  and processing of military personnel actions, computing compensation and maintaining  personnel and payroll records for Active Duty and Retired Officers of the Commissioned Corps.  The CCP system provides a full range of services from call to duty through retirement.   Commissioned Corps Compensation Branch (CB). The Commissioned Corps Compensation  Branch (CB) collects records, maintains files, audits individual payees, performs payroll  transactions using CCP and administers a system of basic pay, allowances, and special or  incentive pay for active duty Corps. CB also administers a pay system for retired officers and  survivor annuitants. The Branch provides these services in coordination with the Departments of  Defense (DOD), Veterans Affairs, and Treasury.   Office of Commissioned Corps Operations (OCCO). The Office of Commissioned Corps  Operations collects records, maintains files, and performs personnel related transactions using  CCP.   Current System Overview   The current software system is a webbased application running on servers housed in an offsite  collocation facility. It provides for data input from personnel and payroll source documents. The  transactions are edited at point of origin and then combined with any other input documents for  that employee to determine all changes since the last instance. Pay determination is by  exception only; the default is to receive the same pay as the previous (monthly) cycle. In  addition to proactive changes, the system is able to detect changes due to longevity milestones.  These longevity changes occur for both base pay and several types of specialty pay to which an  officer may be entitled.   The system stores large tables provided by the DOD to determine the amount of housing  allowance to which officers are entitled based on their grade, dependent status, and duty  station zip code. Since officers can be called to duty, transferred, or separated at any point  during the payroll cycle, the system must be able to determine prorated earnings for all  categories of pay. As supporting documentation may arrive after the fact (i.e., change in marital  status), the system shall be able to perform retroactive adjustments for, at a minimum, all pay  cycles in the current tax year. The Offeror's system should be webbased using modern tools  according to accepted standards. It must allow for different levels of roles and responsibilities.  Certain transactions that do not affect an officer's gross pay (Le. tax withholding, payroll  address, savings allotment, etc.) should be available to the Officers via self service.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 3 of 45

Transactions that require review and approval (i.e. dependent certification) must be initiated by  the officer and forwarded to a payroll technician before being finalized. Other transactions (i.e.  bonus pays) are initiated and/or approved by members of the officer's organization prior to  being forwarded to the payroll technician. The system displays an earnings statement on the  web that shows each element of pay, both current and yeartodate, indicates whether it is  taxable or nontaxable, and lists each deduction and allotment to gross pay. Before the end of  January each year, the system will display the officer's W2/1099R statement. Both of these  documents shall be available for printing. The data base engine must be accessible for standard  and adhoc reports using commercially available packages.   The current system stores all the data necessary to perform grosstonet calculations, and  maintain both taxable and nontaxable earnings. It performs federal, state, and local tax  calculations using tables provided by a thirdparty vendor. It creates output files for Electronic  Funds Transfer (EFT) transactions to banks, insurance companies, Federal Thrift Savings Plan,  charities, U.S. Savings Bonds, tax entities, etc. It provides output data in a format suitable for  auditors and historical review. It does not dispense funds but rather provides data to the U.S.  Treasury in predefined formats.   The existing systems have interfaces to numerous internal and external data systems. These are  summarized in attachment A.   System Overview   The offeror shall propose a solution for the CCP system to comply with the processing  requirements of the Corps. The Corps operates two payrolls on an exceptionbased nature,  determining monthly pay for Active Duty and Retired Officers. The offeror's system shall  produce timely and accurate pay on a monthly basis for all 6,700+ Active Duty and 6,200+  Retired Officers, as well as their Former Spouses and Annuitants.   The descriptions below provide a conceptual overview of the key components of the desired  payroll solution.   1. Calculation Engine   a. Pay Rules   i.  The offeror's payroll engine shall support the Corps pay rules including, its payee  classes, wage tables, source to net calculations and post tax computations. In  accordance with Congressional and Secretarial mandates, rules may be added,  removed or amended to fit changing criteria within the Corps.   ii.  Pay rules shall work in conjunction with the  payroll and personnel transactions  needed by the Payroll Technicians and Human Resources Specialists who process  changes to selected Officer's pay.   iii.  Pay rules shall support all Special Pays as applied to the various categories of Officers  in the diverse circumstances they may be assigned.  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 b.  Retroactive Processing  

Page 4 of 45

The offeror's solution must support retroactive processing such that transactions may be  entered with effective dates prior to the current period, even prior periods in earlier tax  years. In this event, the offeror's system shall calculate the adjustments to pay.   The collection of retroactive overpayments shall be negotiated with the Officer in  accordance with Corps policies and procedures, while the disbursement of retroactive  underpayments shall be taxed in the current period, in accordance with IRS regulations,  specifically those documented in IRS Publication 15, Circular E: Employer's Tax Guide.   c.  Future Dated Processing   The offered solution must support transactions entered with effective dates in future  pay periods, even in subsequent tax years. In this event, the offeror's system shall  calculate the adjustments to pay when that future period becomes effective.     d. Annual Calculations   Once successfully implemented, the offered solution or system must be kept current,  both for routine pay table adjustments and for changes to pay calculations as required  by the Secretary of HHS or Congress. The offered solution must support annual  adjustments to the following tables which inspire calculations to all payees: Basic  Allowance for Housing (BAH), Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), Base Pay, Cost of  living adjustment and the Veteran's Administration compensation benefits. In addition  the solution shall support adjustments to standard amounts for FICA, Thrift Savings Plan,  and Taxes.   2.  Year End Processing     In January of each year, the offeror shall print/mail W2 statements to each Active Duty  Officer and 1099R statements to each Retired Officer, Former Spouse and Annuitant paid in  the prior calendar year in accordance with IRS regulations on behalf of the Corps. The  offeror shall also prepare and submit W3 statements to the IRS, and prepare/submit  equivalent statements to each State tax office (as required). W2/1099R statements shall be  available for viewing, saving and printing to all payees via a webbased self service capability  inherent in the solution.   3.  Active Duty Transaction Processing   The modification of pay is by exception only; the default is to receive the same pay as the  previous (monthly) pay period. The likely cause of a pay change is modification to the  Officer's data, caused by execution of  payroll and personnel transactions. Within a given  month, the number of transactions processed currently range from a minimum of 2,500 to  twice that amount, possibly more. The offered system shall be structured to support this  processing capacity.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 5 of 45

Transaction's are categorized by type and belong to four (4) functional areas:   Compensation, Personnel, Retirement and System.   a. Active Duty Compensation   Vendors shall propose a Web based solution which collects data from source documents  summarizing changes to pay. These transactions fall within the following categories, as  defined by military payroll rules:   i. Administrative  Onetime payment, Payroll Address Change, etc.  ii. Entitlements  Lump Sum Leave, Quarters Allowance, etc.  iii. Deductions  Bonds, Charity Allotment, Federal/State taxes, garnishments, etc.  iv. Benefits  Insurance Allotment, Life Insurance, Thrift Savings Plan, etc.  v. Retirement  Retire an Active Duty Officer, Start/Stop retirement pay, Annuity setup,  former spouse setup, etc.   vi. Special Pays  Accession Bonus, Dental Special Pay, Medical Special Pay, etc.   b. Active Duty Personnel  Upon receipt of source documents, personnel transactions are entered into the same  personnel system which is fully integrated with the payroll system. As many personnel  transactions immediately affect pay, vendors shall describe how the Compensation  offered solution shall integrate personnel transactions with pay rules. Within a given  month, the number of personnel transactions processed range from a minimum of 1,500  to twice that amount, and possibly more.     The number of personnel transactions fall within the following categories:   i.  CAD  Call to Active Duty, Assimilation into Regular Corps, etc.              ii.   Transfer  from/to Billet, Program and/or Station, etc.   iii.   Grade Change  Permanent or Temporary Promotion or Reversion     iv.  Separation  Death, Inactivation or Termination   v.   Miscellaneous  Address Change, Permissive Order, etc.   vi.   Other  Assimilation into Regular Corps, Statement of Service, etc.   4. Workflow Processing   a. Peer Review   Each transaction updates different data elements. The data elements modified in each  transaction must be viewed and validated by at least 2 experienced personnel within CB  or Division of Commissioned Corps Assignments.. Given the volume of data changes and  transactions processed each month, the Human Resource Specialists and Payroll  Technicians have come to rely on an ordered peer review and approval (workflow)  process. Within the workflow, data changed in each transaction undergoes peer review,  and possibly approval, before being permanently committed to the database.   b. Personnel Orders   For personnel transactions, the offered system shall produce an accompanying legal  document  a Personnel Order (PO) document  typically fitting on a single sheet of  paper, which shall be electronically stored on each officer's record within the system.  The contents of the PO shall differ from transaction to transaction, reflecting the 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 6 of 45

transaction type, data elements within the transaction and the individual data of that  Officer. Each PO shall be finalized and stored only after the transaction has been  successfully vetted through the peer review and approval stages. Secure access to  personnel orders by users with differing roles is a mandatory requirement of the offered  solution.   c. Personnel Order Close Process   Each PO shall be finalized and stored only after the transaction has successfully  proceeded through the peer review and supervisory approval stages  the PO CLOSE  process.   d. Personnel Order Amendment Process   From timetotime new information is received regarding a CLOSED (already committed  to the database) transaction, forcing that transaction to be significantly modified,  invalidated or run on a different effective date. The vendor shall describe how the  offered solution shall support this requirement.   e. Personnel Data ­ ORACLE/ Direct Access Interface   The data modified by transactions that are in CLOSED status are electronically  transmitted to the Corps database on a periodic basis.   5. Retirement Processing   Each month approximately 15 to 45 officers retire from Active Duty, and then begin to  receive pay in accordance with one of three retirement plans: Final Pay, REDUX, or High 36.  In addition, officers may retire on temporary or permanent disability, or they may be  granted Separation Pay. A retiring officer's pay rate is individually determined through a  Retirement Calculator function that utilizes source data and CC business rules to compute  the creditable service time. This calculator simultaneously functions as a base pay  determinator for officers newly on active duty, who have creditable service to begin  receiving pay at the appropriate level. The offered solution shall support both active duty  and retirement functions of the Retirement calculator, its rules, processes and reports.   In the months preceding retirement, personnel within the CB begin to identify, gather and  store specific information regarding retirement candidates. The process of retirement within  the offered system is known as the Retirement Tracking System (RTS). The RTS is an integral  function of the pay and personnel system of the Commissioned Corps, and as such a  mandatory requirement of the offered solution.   6. Retired Pay Compensation Transactions   Pay for the 6,100+ retired officers annuitants, and former spouses is also calculated on an  exception only basis in accordance with the rules prescribed in Chapters 71 and 73, Title 10,  United States Code. The default is to receive the same pay as the previous (monthly) pay  period, however, modifications to pay tables, external compensation or tax tables are often  changed. The offered solution shall support the computation of retired pay.   Retiree transactions are categorized by type and belong to seven (7) functional areas:  Annuitant, Death, Disability, Former Spouse, Other, Retired Officer and V A/Concurrent  Receipt.      

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 7.  Monthly Payroll Processing   a. Payroll Calendar  

Page 7 of 45

Each pay period begins on the 1st day of each calendar month with officers being paid on  a 30day month. Payday for activeduty officers is typically the first day of the following  month, or the previous workday, if the first day of the month is not a workday. In some  years, Active duty officers are paid twice in December; on the 1st and last workday of the  month.   For retired officers, former spouses, and annuitants, payday is the first day of the  month, providing that it does not fall on a weekend (Saturday or Sunday). If the first day  of the month is not a workday, retired officers, former spouses, and annuitants shall  receive their pay on the first workday following the first day of the month.   b. Payroll Master Files   Upon completion of payroll, the offered services shall produce several master files  containing pay, personnel and benefit data. These master files are known as the  XMaster, COMaster and D&L respectively. The offered system shall support the  requirements of the Payments and Accounting Team, who are responsible for payroll  reconciliation each month. A package of reports shall also be made available to the  team.   c. Payroll Data Files   Officers may purchase Series I and Series EE Bonds in available denominations through  payroll deduction. The offered system shall create a Bond Payment file that can be used  to transmit payment information in accordance with the rules of the United States  Treasury department.   d. Interface Files/Reporting   The existing systems have interfaces to numerous internal and external data systems,  including DEERS, 3rd Party, TSP, VA, etc. In addition, data in the offered solution must  accept input from and export data to Corps human resource applications. These include  the database tables supporting the applicant system, the electronic call to active duty  system, the promotion system, the officer evaluation system, and the electronic officer  personnel file (eOPF).   8. Data Structures: Initial Load & Updates   The database used within the offered system shall be structured to store a myriad of  actionable information, including: Admin Codes, Bank Routing Nos., Bonus Amounts,  Common Accounting Numbers, GEO Codes, Special Pays, State Tax Amounts and the like.  Several of these tables are updated monthly, including DEERS, etc. Other records are  updated on an annual basis, including: Base Pay tables, Base Area for Housing, BAS, Cost of  Living Allowance, etc.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 9. Audit  

Page 8 of 45

Given the magnitude of transactions processed by Payroll Technicians and HR Specialists,  the offered solution shall support a systembased audit trail. In addition the offeror shall  provide technical expertise or facilitate technical resources to support the ongoing  Government audit programs as prescribed by FISMA.   a. Audit Trail   Each data entry, action and event shall be timestamped, providing a complete access to  a historical audit trail and enabling tracking of input errors.   b. C&A: Security Certification and Security Accreditation   As mandated by HHS, all Information Technology systems must undergo an annual  Certification and Accreditation (C&A) program, in accordance with NIST SP 80037,  Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems.  The information security program must include periodic testing and evaluation of the  effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, practices, and security  controls. This testing should be performed with a frequency depending on risk, but no  less than annually.   Security certification is a comprehensive assessment of the management, operational,  and technical security controls in an information system, made in support of security  accreditation, that determines the extent to which the controls are implemented  correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to  meeting the security requirements for the system.   The results of a security certification are used to reassess the risks and update the  system security plan, thus providing the factual basis for an authorizing official to render  a security accreditation decision. The offeror shall support the Corps in its performance  of the Certification and Accreditation of the CCP system. c. SAS70 Type II Examination   The Government Management Reform Act (GMRA) expanded the CFO Act of 1990 to  require the issuance of audited financial statements by HHS and other agencies. Under  the HHS plan to implement GMRA, the Corps is required to complete an annual  examination of the CCP system. The auditors have determined that independent  examinations of internal controls shall be completed annually under the guidelines of  the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Auditing Standards  (SAS) Number 70, Reports on the Processing of Transactions by Service Organizations.  The annual examination is a "Type 2" report providing an opinion on the internal  controls placed in operation and includes tests of operating effectiveness.   The SAS 70 examination shall result in the issuance of reports on controls placed in  operation and tests of operating effectiveness in accordance with AU § 324.41 324.57.  The period of examination is October 1st of the current year, through June 30th of the  following year. The scope of the engagement shall cover all controls and processes  required by the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act (FFMIA) criteria and  relevant governing agencies, such as Treasury or Office of Management and Budget  (OMB), as applicable to SAS 70 testing procedures, up to and including:  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Elements of Internal Controls   Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC)   General Computer Controls   Additional General Controls   Application Controls   Additional Material  

Page 9 of 45

As a service provider, AOS must continuously provide documented, reasonable  assurance that the CCP system has adequate controls and safeguards in place. Results  shall be used in the audit of the HHSwide financial statements and relied upon by other  firms in examining operating division financial statements.   10. Reports   The offered system shall provide reporting tools and utilities that allow authorized Payroll  Technicians and expert users to validate calculations, outputs and payments as they process  payroll each month. The reporting tools and utilities shall provide unencumbered access to  PHS pay and personnel data, system and individual parameters, transactions, workflow  events, calculations and tables, on a 24 by 7 basis throughout the year. Specifically, the  following services are required:   a. Adhoc Reporting Tool   While each payroll calculation is verified by the originator and a reviewer before the  final processing of any transaction, variance reports are desired as a method to identify  changes in payroll from period to period and to identify the reasons for the changes. To  validate the functionality of the proposed system, the ad hoc reporting utility shall allow  expert users to seek and identify errors in payroll processing before the completion of  payroll each period. AOS has an obligation to provide accurate results before payroll is  released.   The need for ad hoc reporting extends further as well. There are numerous requests for  information from management, auditors, one time questions, and report requests  resulting from problems identified in reconciliation.   b. Payroll Processing   Payroll processing is typically conducted in two stages: a preliminary run is performed  midmonth and payroll is finalized at the end of the month. Thus, the CB requires that at  any time in the pay period, a System Administrator or Payroll Supervisor may initiate a  process that will lock the payroll of all changes, calculate a draft of final pay and create a  set of payroll reports that are available online for detailed review.   Later in the month, the final pay process shall be initiated, allowing the System  Administrator or Payroll Supervisor to review the status for all payees, including all  earnings, deductions, taxes and net payments, before initiating final disbursement  through the Department of Treasury.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 c. Post Payroll Processing  

Page 10 of 45

The offered solution shall provide a set of reports formatted in accordance with the  requirements of the Payments and Accounting Team (PACT) of the CCSB. PACT provides  payroll accounting, certification and reporting services for the CCSB. No less than 33  reports are produced post payroll for PACT and downstream clients of the Corps.   d. Accounting for Pay System (AFPS)   The offered solution shall also provide a set of master reports formatted in accordance  with the requirements of the Financial Management Service (FMS). FMS maintains the  Accounting for Pay System (AFPS) interface, which provides Departmentwide payroll  accounting services for HHS civilian employees and Corps Officers. For the Corps, AFPS is  also responsible for:   ˇ ˇ Payroll accounting for disbursements, obligations and accruals for personnel  costs.   Collection and disbursement of payroll income taxes and reporting of those  items to the Treasury Department, 50 States, the Internal Revenue Service, and  the U.S. Department of Labor.  

11. System   a. Backup/Replication   The offeror shall propose a detailed process and procedure for the restoration of  employee and payroll data. Consideration shall be given to system availability and  security requirements.   b. Service Redundancy   The offeror shall identify which components of its system are redundant, clustered, and  singlepointoffailure. We define these terms as:   i. Redundant  failure of this unit will cause no loss of service or performance   ii. Clustered  these items share the full load. When failure to one item occurs; the  system shall continue operating with the remaining units, but at a reduced performance  level.   iii. Singlepointoffailure  means discontinuation of service and potential activation if  this item fails   c. Hosting and Data Ownership     The offeror shall provide host environments to allow testing and secure backup of Corps  personnel and payroll data. This personnel and payroll data will be the property of the  Corps, not the property of the contractor. A disposition plan shall describe how PHS will  be protected from a situation in which the offeror is incapable of supporting the CCP  service.   

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 11 of 45

PHS personnel shall also ensure that the PHS Test Site is kept in monthly or weekly  synchronization with the primary CCP production database. When necessary, the PHS  operators shall be required to remove the Test Site from operation to enable the Cold  Site.   The Offeror shall provide a Test Site system as described above to be maintained and  operated by PHS personnel housed in a Government facility.     12. User Roles, Accounts and Related Functions   Within the offered system, access of registered users to system transactions, information  views and other user functionality shall be assigned on a rolebyrole basis by the System  Administrator. Users shall not be limited to any particular role. The offeror shall provide to  the government the ability to maintain user accounts (Add, Delete, or Modify functionality)  for all registered government users.   a. Liaison Officers   Commissioned Corps officers are assigned to a variety of positions throughout HHS and  certain nonHHS Federal agencies and programs. The Liaison Officer's role is to serve as  the point of contact for assisting and coordinating activities between the Corps and a  particular agency or program. The offered solution shall allow Liaison officers to view  appropriate data changes, transactions and personnel records of officers assigned to  their agency or program.   b. Leave Processing   Leave accounting and management of leave shall be fully integrated in the offered  system. Additionally, an online leave and earnings statement will be available for  viewing and printing by the Active Duty officers through their self service accounts.   c. Self Service   The offered system shall include a self service module that will allow both Active and  Retired Officers significant control of the distribution of their gross pay (W4, state tax,  allotments, net check to bank, etc.), and online access to view, print and manage  personal information at any time. 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 12 of 45

Attachment A  External Interfaces to the Current Payroll Environment[DHHS1]     Al!enc v DHHS   SSA   Treasury  

VA   Federa I  Reserve  Thrift  Savings   DMDC  

Contrac tor  Allotm ents  

Tax  Informatio n   DHHS  Reporting  

 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 13 of 45

3.0 MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT     The contractor oversight duties for this contract will be performed by the Government's lead technical  staff member on the payroll replacement project team.   4.0 STATEMENT OF WORK   The Government will entertain the following approach for payroll services:   An outsource approach that provides for equipment, configurable COTS software, and  production support without the direct involvement of Government personnel.   The services to be provided to the government shall be performed in two phases:   4.01 Implementation Phase   Services to be performed will be within the scope of work as described below, including but not  limited to:   1. Providing a Project Plan including   - A Project schedule;   - Clarification of the scope and purpose of the proposed project standards;   - Determination of compliance with Corps procedures and policies;   - Identification of commitments to and from all individuals and organizations; and,   - Provides the basis for the estimate of the project's effort, cost and time to  implementation.   2. Perform an Analysis of the Requirements including   - A review of existing requirement documentation;   - Conducting interviews with technical, functional, and process experts;   - Deliver a document that includes:   - A detailed account of all pay rules   - A detailed account of all interface specifications   - An account of all roles, responsibilities, and access controls Data migration  requirements   - Interaction requirements   - Report requirements   - Leave management requirements   - Personnel order requirements from DCCA ­ for example, moving instructions,  travel instructions, expense reimbursement instructions  - Pay provisions for the Ready Reserve  3. Develop an Application Design including  - A data element dictionary   - A workflow design   - Data migration plan and integrity test procedures   - An implementation plan and integrity test procedures A training plan   - A failsafe plan should unforeseen problems arise   4.Add the following standard deliverables as prescribed by HHS's EPLC.  - Functional Requirements Document  - Risk Management Plan  - Change Control Plan    5. Build and configure the solution according to the Application Design   6. Conduct training for all user types according to the training plan   7. Test the solution according to migration and test plans   8. Rollout the application according to the implementation plan  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 14 of 45

9. Provide postimplementation guidance on supporting the application     4.02   Production and Maintenance Phase   Services to be provided during this phase include:   1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Monthly payroll processing for all eligible active duty, retired, annuitants, and former spouses   Supplementary payroll production runs according to existing HHS regulations and policy   Timely delivery of interface files or data to support the existing interface methodologies   Maintenance of all payroll database tables in accordance with written instructions provided by  the Contract Officer's Technical Representative (COTR)   Maintenance of all the payroll processing rules in accordance with written instructions provided  by the COTR   Maintenance of a continuation of operations facility as a backup to the primary site   Appropriate updates and technical input to the OMBrequired Analysis of Alternatives,  Earned  Value Management (EVM), annual Operations Analysis and other required documentation such  as OMB300  Annual Sas70 Type II Examination   Provide access to other Government Agency or their designated agent for evaluation of business  rules and/ or data. 

4.1 Application Operation     The Contractor shall ensure that the Offered system  both online and batch processes  operate in  accordance with established production schedules.   4.2 Interfaces     The Contractor shall ensure that interfaces between the Offered system and existing internal and  external data systems are functioning properly. The Contractor shall assist Government workers to  facilitate new interface requirements as they are mandated.   4.3 Application Maintenance   It is expected that the Contractor will keep the application current with Corps databases  and HHS's minimum standards for web browsers and, with proper notification, be  prepared to adapt the application to other industry standards should they be mandated by  HHS.      5.1 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE     All meetings, requirements gathering, presentations, beta testing, etc. will be conducted at one of two  following Government locations as determined by the COTR:   Parklawn Building   5600 Fishers Lane   Rockville, MD 20857    OR    Tower Building  1101 Wootton Pkwy, Suite 100  Rockville, MD 20852  All development and production will be conducted at the Contractor's site.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 6.0. DELIVERABLES   6.1. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE  

Page 15 of 45

The Period of Performance is for a Basic Period of Twelve months (October 1, 2010 through  September 30, 2011) with four 12 month optional periods.   6.2 All deliverables must meet professional standards, in accordance with the requirements set  forth in the contractual documentation. The Contractor will be responsible for delivering all end  items specified by the Government. In general, deliverables will include any documentation and  databases developed during the support of the operations and maintenance activities. The  deliverables will be approved by an Integrated Project Team coordinated by the Project  Manager.  6.2.1 Phase I Deliverables   The Contractor shall provide biweekly status reports indicating all activities performed since the last  report and progress toward upcoming milestones. Milestone deliverables shall include:   1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. A Project Plan   Requirements Document[DHHS2]   A Design Document   A Test Plan   An Implementation Plan   A Training Plan   An Alpha Prototype showing the basics of the selfservice module, the payroll  technician capabilities, and application administration tools.   8. A Beta Prototype including the implementation of all facets of the Requirements  Document including interface solutions   9. The successful execution of the Test Plan   10. The successful execution of the Implementation Plan   11. An estimate of the level of effort and resources it will take to operate the system on a  monthly basis.   12. Disposition Plan ­ this will ensure we are planning for the potential to change  contractors at some point in the future and is part of the HHS CPIC guidance. What  happens at the end of the contract? Do we own the data? Can we buy the system  outright? Are there funds for disposition? 

6.2.1 Phase II Deliverables   The Contractor shall provide metrics and reports to document performance of the following tasks:   1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Application Operation   Interfaces   Application Maintenance   Service Delivery   Updated System Documentation   System Test Results of Software Changes  

6.3 Acceptance Criteria for Project Deliverables   The COTR will assume responsibility for acceptance and/or rejection of all interim and final deliverables  submitted by the contractor.   All text deliverables should be submitted in four (4) hardcopies and a soft copy in Microsoft  Word format. Other types of deliverables (spreadsheets, Gantt charts, presentations, etc.)  should be submitted in two (2) hardcopies and in a soft copy using other Microsoft Office  products (e.g. MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, etc.).    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 7.0 PERFORMANCE MEASURES   7.01 Phase I Performance Measures  

Page 16 of 45

Performance will be measured by the timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of the prescribed  deliverables that are within the Contractor's control. Any deviations to the dates prescribed for  deliverables in the Project Plan must be brought to the COTR's attention with explanation and  discussion of the impact to the schedule. During beta and parallel testing, the software must  perform to acceptable industry standards for response time.     7.01   Phase II Performance Measures   Production operations must be successful 100% of the time. The Contractor will be given a schedule  of monthly production dates with a twoday window for completion. Application must be at 99%  availability during published scheduled hours. Response time for the user must fall within accepted  industry standards for an application of this type. Application maintenance and corrections must be  implemented according to the following definitions:   Emergency fix  the system is down and an application fix is required or payroll will not run. Fix must  be implemented so as to avoid a delay in payroll.   Critical fix  the system is operational but payroll requires significant manual intervention to process pay,  or the fix relates to a mandated external deadline to implement. Fix must be applied within two weeks  95% of the time.   Noncritical fixes  all fixes not meeting the definitions above. Fix must be applied within two months or  at the next scheduled software release date, whichever is sooner.   8.0. OBSERVANCE OF FEDERAL HOLIDAYS   No services or deliveries shall be performed on Saturdays, Sundays or Federal legal holidays as  shown below:   Government holidays are ­   1. New Year's Day   2. Martin Luther King's Birthday   3. President's Day   4. Memorial Day   5. Independence Day   6. Labor Day   7. Columbus Day   8. Veteran's Day   9. Thanksgiving   10.Christmas Day     9. DELIVERY ORDER ADMINISTRATION DATA   January 1st  Third Monday in Jan  Third Monday in Feb  Last Monday in May  July 4th  First Monday in Sept  Second Monday in Oct  November 11  Fourth Thursday in Nov  December 25 

9.1 AUTHORITIES OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL   Notwithstanding the Contractor's responsibility for total management during the  performance of this delivery order, the administration of the contract will require  maximum coordination between the Government and the Contractor. The following  individuals will be the Government's points of contact during the performance of this  delivery order:  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 1. Contracting Officer  

Page 17 of 45

All contract administration shall be performed by a contract specialist to be assigned after contract  award by Division of Acquisition, Parklawn Building, Room 5101,5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland  20857. All communications pertaining to contractual and/or administrative matters under the delivery  order should be addressed to to the contract specialist.   2. Project Officer   The Project Officer shall be designated on the authority of the Contracting Officer at the time of contract  award to monitor all technical aspects of the contract. In no event is the Project Officer empowered to  change any of the terms and conditions of the contractr. Changes in any section of this contract shall be  made only by the Contracting Officer pursuant to a properly executed modification. The type of actions  within the purview of the Project Officer's authority are to ensure that the Contractor perform the  technical requirements of the delivery order, and to notify both the Contractor and the Contracting  Officer of any deficiencies observed.   9.2. HHSAR 352.2705 KEY PERSONNEL (APR 1984)   The personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to the work being performed  hereunder. Prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs, the Contractor shall  notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance and shall submit justification (including proposed  substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the program. No diversion shall  be made by the Contractor without the written consent of the Contracting Officer; provided, that the  Contracting Officer may ratify in writing such diversion and such ratification shall constitute the consent  of the Contracting Officer required by this clause. The contract may be modified from time to time  during the course of the contract to either add or delete personnel, as appropriate. To be entered upon  Award    9.3   INVOICE SUBMISSION   1. The Contractor shall submit monthly invoices in an original and three (3) copies to the  Project Officer. After review and approval the Project Officer shall:   a. b. c. d.   2.   Annotate each copy of the invoice "Payment is authorized in the amount of $  [enter amount] and sign each copy.   Forward two (2) copies of the invoice to the Program Support Center, Financial  Management Service, Parklawn Building, Room 16A12.   Forward one (1) copy of the invoice to the Contracting Officer, Parklawn  Building, Room 5101.   Maintain one (1) copy.  

The Contractor agrees to include the following information on its voucher:   a. b. c. d. Contractor's name and address;   Delivery Order Number;   Description of services, including the hours for each service and the cost;   Time reports and any other substantiating documentation such as travel;  vouchers or receipts for ODCs.;   e.   Invoice Period; and,   f.   Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).      

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 10.   SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS  

Page 18 of 45

10.1 Privacy and Security   The contractor shall perform all work in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB)  Circular A130, Appendix III, "Security of Federal Automated Information Systems," and the HHS AISSP  Handbook.   Any contractor who uses a HHS computer or has access to HHS Automated Information Systems (AIS)  resources must have at least a National Agency Check and Inquiry Investigation (NACIC) check. Anyone  with access to sensitive data (e.g., personnel or payroll data) must have at least a Minimum Background  Investigation (MBI) or Background Investigation (BI). HHS, Personnel Security, and Drug Testing Program  Division must adjudicate all reports.   The contractor shall submit a completed security clearance package, available from the Project Manager  (PM), for each person expected to support the project, to the attention of the PM within five working  days of contract award. Any time the contractor adds personnel in support of the Work Order,  additional clearance packages must be submitted to the PM within five business days.   At the time the contractor submits the security clearance package(s), the contractor shall identify the  type of work the contractor's employee(s) will perform so that HHS can determine the anticipated level  of systems involvement. The contractor shall include this information with the security clearance  package in narrative. There is no specific form to be used for this submission. Provision of this  information will expedite the clearance process. Investigations must be conducted and documented  before any individual can have access to HHS computer systems or information.   When any contractor employee completes involvement with the Work Order and will no longer report  to the work site, s/he is required to fill out a contractor exit form. This form can be obtained from the  PM and must be returned to the PM, along with all assigned access cards and/or keys, on the contractor  employee's final day at the work site.   The Offeror must acknowledge, in writing, its understanding of the security requirements  detailed in this Statement of Work.   10.2 STAFFING   The Contractor must possess the demonstrated ability to satisfy all the deliverables in phase I and phase  II. In addition, the vendor's staff will have access to sensitive but unclassified information subject to  protection under the Privacy Act. The vendor's staff will serve as the Government's agent and therefore,  is subject to the Privacy Act. All vendor staff must have favorable NACI background checks with credit  report prior to reporting to duty.   Prior to replacing any contractor staff designated as key personnel, the contractor will obtain the prior  approval of the HHS Project Officer.   10.3 FAR 52.2178 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)   The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates  specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor  rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but  the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may  exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor prior to contract expiration.   10.4 FAR 52.2179 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)     (a)   The Government may extend the term of this contract provided that the  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 19 of 45

Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at  least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the  Government to an extension.       (b)   (c)   If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be   considered to include this option clause.   The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options   under this clause, shall not exceed [number] months.  

11.0. TECHNICAL MONITORING     A.   Performance of the work under this delivery order shall be subject to the technical   monitoring of the Project Officer. The term "Technical Monitoring" is defined to include, without  limitation, the following:   1. Technical directions to the Contractor which redirect the delivery order effort, shift work  emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in  details or otherwise serve to accomplish the contractual scope of work.   Providing information to the Contractor for assistance in the interpretation of drawings,  specifications or technical portions of the work description.   Review and, where required by the delivery order, approval of technical reports,  drawings, specifications and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to  the Government under the delivery order.  

2. 3.

B. Technical direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the delivery order.  The Project Officer does not have the authority to and may not issue any technical direction  which (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the delivery  order; (ii) constitutes a change as defined in the delivery order clause entitled, "Changes;" (iii)  causes, in any manner, an increase or decrease in the total estimated delivery order cost, the  fixed fee or the time required for delivery order performance; or (iv) changes any of the  expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the delivery order.   C. All technical direction shall be issued in writing by the Project Officer or   Shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within 5 working days after   issuance.   D. The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical direction duly  issued by the Project Officer in the manner prescribed by   this clause and within his/her authority under the provisions of this clause.   E. If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the Project  Officer is within one of the categories as defined in (i) through (iv) above, the Contractor  shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing within 5 working days  after the receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting  Officer to modify the delivery order accordingly. Upon receiving such notification from  the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate delivery order  modification or advise the Contractor in writing that, in his/her opinion, the technical  direction is within the scope of this clause and does not constitute a change under the  Changes Clause of the delivery order. The Contractor shall there upon proceed  immediately with the direction given. A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of  the instruction or direction or upon the delivery order action to be taken with respect  there to shall be subject to the provisions of the delivery order clause entitled "Disputes."  Attachment B  Glossary of Pay Rules   There is no succinct, consolidated source that captures all pay and leave rules and other entitlements for 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 20 of 45

all active duty Commissioned Officers and for all retirees, annuitants, and former spouses. This  information will have to be obtained during the requirements gathering stage (leading to the  Requirements Document deliverable) primarily by interviewing subject matter experts and possibly  reviewing the legacy COBOL code.   However, some required sources regarding pay and allowances of the uniformed services are:   1. Title 37 United States Code   http://www4.law.comell.edu/uscode/37/   2. Interpretation of Title 10 and Title 37 can be found in the Department of Defense  Financial Management Manual, Volumes 7A, 7B and 7C:   a. Volume 7A describes active duty pay and allowances  http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/07a/index.html   b. Volume 7B describes retiree and annuitant pay http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/07b/index.html   c. Volume 7C describes several miscellaneous pay issues not contained in Volumes  7A and 7B   http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/07c/index.html  
H H H H

Basic Pay   Basic Pay is subject to Federal income tax, Social Security (FICA), in most cases, State income tax. The  rate of Basic Pay received is based on the officer's temporary grade and the Base Pay Entry Date (BPED)  printed on the officer's calltoactiveduty personnel order. The BPED date is usually the calltoactive duty date; however, it may be adjusted for prior service in other Uniformed Services. The second date  that is important is the Training and Experience Date (TED). This date appears on your calltoactiveduty  personnel order and reflects your creditable training and experience related to your health specialty and  determines your rank and eligibility for promotion. Your initial rate of Basic Pay is determined by your  BPED and your rank. Subsequent increases in basic pay result from length of service, promotion to the  next higher rank, and legislative pay increases.   Special Pay   Special pays are paid to several professional disciplines in the Corps based on category. Officers must be  called to duty for a minimum period of 1 year. These special pays are paid either on a monthly basis or  on an annual contractual basis. All special pays are considered as taxable income. Rates of monthly  special pays are determined by the years of creditable service, while most contract pay rates are  determined according to specialty.   Recent changes in legislation have increased the maximum allowable rates for certain special pays and  bonuses for health care professionals as well as created a consolidation of pay authorities. This  consolidation authorizes the expansion of special pay eligibility to all professional categories and creates  four general categories of special pay. The payroll system must be able to support the current special  pay system, and the transition to the new consolidated pay authorities.   In the upcoming year, the Compensation Branch will be working closely with the Department of Defense  to determine new Uniformed Services special pay and bonus rates with existing and consolidated pay  authorities.   The following provides an overview of existing special pays:   Veterinary and optometry officers are eligible to receive monthly special pay. Special pays for medical  officers include Retention Special Pay (RSP), Variable Special Pay (VSP), Board Certified Pay (BCP),  Incentive Special Pay (ISP), and Multiyear Retention Bonus (MRB).   Note: Included in this issue of the Commissioned Corps Bulletin is an article titled Changes Announced 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 21 of 45

for Medical Officers Special Pays  Dental officers are eligible for VSP, BCP, MRB, and Additional Special  Pay (ASP) as well as an accession bonus. Engineering and scientist officers may be eligible to receive  Engineering and Scientific Career Continuation Pay (ESCCP). Nurse Special Pay (NSP) includes a special  pay for nurse anesthetists as well as an accession bonus. Pharmacist officers receive VSP and may be  eligible for an accession bonus upon callto duty. Nonphysician BCP may be authorized for certain  officers, as defined below.   VARIABLE SPECIAL PAY (VSP) is a monthly pay based on the pharmacy, medical, or dental officer's years  of creditable service. The creditable service entry date (CSED) reflects the officer's years of active duty as  a pharmacy, medical, or dental officer in any of the Uniformed Services. For medical and dental officers,  CSED also includes the years spent participating in an accredited medical or dental internship/residency  while not on active duty in a Uniformed Service. VSP rates range annually for medical, pharmacy and  dental officers based on length of creditable service.   BOARD CERTIFIED PAY (BCP) is a monthly pay based on the medical, dental, or veterinary officer's CSED  and board certification. BCP ranges annually for medical, dental and veterinary officers. Officers must  provide documentation from the certifying board in support of current active certification to receive this  special pay. All timelimited diplomats must submit successful completion of recertification exams to  continue receipt of BCP.   NONPHYSICIAN BOARD CERTIFIED PAY (NBCP) has been implemented by the PHS Commissioned Corps  in the same manner as it has been in the other Uniformed Services. The payment of NBCP is authorized  for recognized specialties that are above the normal entry level, and to be eligible a recipient must:   1. Be a healthcare provider in a specialty that is authorized to receive NBCP;   2. Have a postbaccalaureate degree in his or her clinical specialty; (MPH or MHA degrees do not  substitute for your clinical specialty);   3. Be certified by a professional board in his or her clinical specialty; and   4. Meet the applicable criteria recognized by specialty boards.   Rates of pay range based on years of creditable service. Officers must provide documentation from the  certifying board in support of current active certification to receive this special pay. All timelimited  diplomats must submit successful completion of recertification exams to continue receipt of NBCP.  Officers with prior military must include classification information for all prior active duty time with their  request for NBCP.   Specialties eligible to receive NBCP include: nurse anesthetist, nurse practitioner, nurse midwife,  radiological physics, dietetics, occupational therapy, optometry, pharmacy, physical therapy, podiatry,  psychology, social work, audiology/speech pathology, and physician assistant.   If you meet the above criteria and are not already receiving NBCP, you must submit a copy of your  advanced degree certificate along with documentation of your board certification to the Compensation  Branch.   RETENTION SPECIAL PAY (RSP) is an annual payment to medical officers who execute a contract to  remain on active duty for a specified term of 1 or more years. The payment is made in a lump sum  usually within 90 days of the effective date of the contract. If other bonus pay contracts are negotiated,  they will have concurrent dating.   INCENTIVE SPECIAL PAY (ISP) is an annual bonus for medical officers who are board certified or fully  trained in a medical specialty. ISP rates authorized by law, range per contract. Effective in 2008, there  were changes to the ISP rates. ISP will be split into three payment levels: (1) ISP payable in conjunction  with an MRB contract; (2) ISP payable if the officer has an obligation for training or scholarship; and (3)  ISP payable for officers who choose to enter into 1 year only contracts when the officer is eligible for  MRB. There is a provision to pay ISP for medical officers who execute an ISP contract to stay on active 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 22 of 45

duty for a minimum of 1 year at an isolated hardship site or a hardtofill location. Officers serving at the  eligible sites are notified of their eligibility when they are assigned. The amount for isolated hardship  sites ranges based on the category of the site. The payment is made in an annual lump sum.   MULTIYEAR RETENTION BONUS (MRB) is an annual bonus for medical officers who are board certified or  fully trained in a medical specialty. MRB rates range depending on the specialty training and the  duration of the contract.   Eligibility requirements for ISP and MRB include that a medical officer:   1. Be entitled to receive RSP;   2. Be in pay grade 06 (CAPT) or below;   3. Not be participating in Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)supported longterm  training as defined in INSTRUCTION 1, Subchapter CC25.2, Extramural Training, of the  Commissioned Corps Personnel Manual (CCPM);   4. Be eligible to remain on active duty for the duration of the contract;   5. Be board certified or fully trained in a recognized medical specialty;   6. Have a current license to practice medicine or osteopathy;   7. Not be serving obligated service as a result of training or scholarship (applies to MRB only); and   8. Enter into a contract to remain on active duty for 24 years. (Note that MRB and RSP  contracts must have concurrent dates.)   MULTIYEAR RETENTION BONUS (MRB) for dental officers is an annual bonus for officers who are board  certified or fully trained in a dental specialty, and is payable annually depending on the specialty training  and the length of the contract. Eligibility criteria are similar to those for medical officers, listed above.   ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PAY (ASP) is an annual lump sum bonus payable to dental officers who execute a  contract to remain on active duty for at least 1 year. Amounts range per year depending on the officer's  years of creditable service.   NURSE SPECIAL PAY is an annual contract special pay for nurse anesthetists. At the discretion of the  Agency/Operating Division/Program to which they are assigned, qualified nurse officers may sign a  contract to remain on active duty for 1 year and may be paid a lump sum amount depending on their  obligation to the Service.   Eligibility requirements include that a nurse officer must:   1. Be a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA), and submit proof of current   certification;   2. Be on active duty under a call or order to duty for not less than 1 year;   3. Have a current and unrestricted State license as a registered professional nurse; and   4. Sign an agreement to remain on active duty for 1 year.   Any questions regarding the nurse special pay should be directed to your Agency/Operating  Division/Program Commissioned Corps Liaison or the Compensation Branch.   ACCESSION BONUSES are authorized for registered nurses, pharmacists, and dentists who accept a  commission as an officer. Officers must sign a contract within 60 days of their calltoactiveduty, and  agree to remain on active duty for a period of not less than 4 years. The amount of the accession bonus  differs for nurses, pharmacists and dentists. To be eligible for the accession bonus, the officer must:   1. Have a current and unrestricted license as a registered professional nurse, pharmacist,   or dentist;   2. Meet the commissioning standards for their respective category;   3. Not have received financial assistance from HHS or a Uniformed Service;   4. Not be serving obligated service pursuant to participation in an HHSsupported  scholarship or training program;   5. Be willing to accept a commission as an officer and remain on active duty for a period not less 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 23 of 45

than 4 years; and   6. Not have been on extended active duty in any Uniformed Service during the previous 12 months  for nurse officers, and previous 24 months for dental and pharmacy officers.   ENGINEERING AND SCIENTIFIC CAREER CONTINUATION PAY (ESCCP) is a special pay for engineer or  scientist officers who are assigned to positions designated as critical shortage positions. The maximum  pay authorized per year. For engineers, the positions deemed as critical shortage positions are the  locations designated as isolated hardship duty sites. Scientist officers occupying billets in which the civil  service equivalent would be eligible for special pay are deemed critical shortage positions. Other  eligibility criteria are:   1. Not be receiving any other accession or career continuation bonus or annual bonus  authorized by 37 U.S.C. 302;   2. Not be serving obligated service pursuant to participation in an HHSsupported  scholarship or training program;   3. Be below pay grade 06 (CAPT);   4. Hold an earned degree in engineering or science from an accredited college or  university;   5. Be a member of the engineer or scientist categories or meet the standards for  appointment to the scientist category;   6. Have completed 3 but less than 11 years of active duty with a Uniformed Service of  which at least 3 years is duty as an engineer or scientist officer, or served on active  duty for 3 but less than 11 years after meeting requirements for eligibility;   6. Be serving in an engineering or scientific specialty that is specified as a critical shortage specialty;   7. Not have been called to active duty as an interservice transfer or served on active duty in  another Uniformed Service within the last 12 months;   8. Not be participating in HHSsupported longterm training as defined in INSTRUCTION 1,  Subchapter CC25.2, Extramural Training, of the CCPM; and   9. Execute a written agreement to remain on active duty for at least 1 year in the critical  shortage position.   All special pay contract bonuses are available online at the DCP Web site  http://dcP.psc.aov under  >Services and >Official Forms. Specific guidelines determine the effective date of all contract pays, so it  is important for officers to be familiar with the requirements in order not to jeopardize their eligibility.  Questions on special pay eligibility can be addressed with Agency/Operating Division/Program  Commissioned Corps Liaisons or the Compensation Branch.  
H

Deductions   Deductions from pay include taxes, both State and Federal, and Social Security (FICA). Officers must  submit Form W4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, to the Compensation Branch to  determine the rate of withholding of Federal income tax. Officers claim withholding allowances based  on their marital status, number of dependents, and other adjustments to income. Worksheets are  provided with Form W4. Note: The mandatory withholding rate for annual bonus payments is 25  percent.   STATE INCOME TAXES are withheld based on the officer's State of legal residence. Officers notify the  Compensation Branch of their State of legal residence by completing form DD2058, State of Legal  Residence Certificate, and if appropriate, State taxes are withheld. State tax laws vary so you should  contact your State tax service for assistance.   SOCIAL SECURITY (FICA) will continue to be deducted from each officer's pay at the rate of 7.65 percent.  Effective January 1, 2009, the maximum amount for which the full rate of 7.65 percent will be deducted  has increased to $109,800. The Social Security deduction is comprised of two parts. The Old Age  Survivors' and Disability Insurance (OASDI) rate is 6.2 percent. The Hospital Insurance (HI) rate is 1.45 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 24 of 45

percent. Both OASDI and HI are deducted on the first $109,800 of earnings. At that point, OASDI  deductions are discontinued. The HI portion has no maximum salary cutoff, so it continues to be  applicable to earnings above the OASDI cutoff. In other words, the Social Security deduction will be 7.65  percent on the first $109,800 of wages and 1.45 percent thereafter. Officers earning more than  $109,800 will see a change in the net takehome pay when that amount has been reached.   SERVICEMEMBER'S GROUP LIFE INSURANCE (SGLI) premiums will automatically be deducted to provide  a maximum of $400,000 of life insurance on the officer unless a lesser amount or no insurance is  elected. New calls to duty are automatically covered for $400,000 unless they decline or elect reduced  coverage. Effective August 1, 2006, SGLI premium rates were set to $0.07 per $1,000 of coverage,  making the monthly premium $28.00 for maximum coverage. The premium for Traumatic Injury  Protection coverage (TSGLI), which is mandatory and added automatically to the SGLI deduction, is  $1.00 per month. Using form SGLV8286, Service member's Group Life Insurance Election and  Certificate, officers may (1) decline coverage, or (2) elect a reduced level of insurance in a multiple of  $10,000. To specify an election or decline the insurance, the officer must submit form SGLV8286 on or  before his or her first day of active duty.   November 1, 2001 marked the beginning of SGLI family coverage which extends coverage to spouses  and children of activeduty officers with SGLI. Spouse coverage is automatic unless reduced or no  coverage is requested using form SGLV8286A, Family Coverage Election (SGLI) Premiums for spouse  coverage are based on the age of the spouse. Child coverage in the amount of $10,000 per child is free  and cannot be declined or reduced.   Detailed information on all SGLI programs is available online at the VA Web site  htto:/lwww.insurance.va.Qov/sQIiSite/default.htm. Election forms are also available online at  htto:/lwww.insurance.va.qov/sqIiSite/forms/forms.htm or from the Compensation Branch.  
H H

The Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) is intended to be a supplement to existing Uniformed Services retirement  plans, not a replacement. For calendar year 2010, officers may deposit 100 percent of Basic Pay, along  with 100 percent of special pay and bonuses up to a combined ceiling of $16,500 per year. Officers  wishing to change the amount of basic pay deposited into their TSP account must submit a revised Form  TSPU1, A TSP Election Form, to the Compensation Branch during the next open season. Congress  recently authorized an additional >catchup= contribution for members over age 50. The new legislation  will allow participants age 50 and older to make $5,500 of additional contributions in 2010, and  increasing amounts thereafter. Use Form TSPU1C to make >catchup contributions. Additional details  on the TSP are available on the TSP Web site  Chttp://www.tsp.gov. (Please be sure you are viewing the  Uniformed Services section of that Web site). Information specific to PHS officers can be found on the  DCP Web site htto:/ldcp.psc.Qov.  
H

Allowances   Allowances are generally nontaxable income and include Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS), Basic  Allowance for Housing (BAH), Overseas Housing Allowance (OHA), Cost of Living Allowance (COLA),  Dislocation Allowance (DLA), and MoveIn Housing Allowance (MIHA). Continental U.S. Cost of Living  Allowance (CCOLA) is a taxable allowance.   BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE (BAS) is a monthly allowance payable to all officers.   BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING (BAH) rates are determined by the officer's duty location, grade, and  dependency status. These rates are paid based on the duty location zip code, not home address.   Current rates can be viewed at  http://www.dtic.mil/perdiem/bahform.html. Officers receiving BAH at  the withdependent rate must recertify annually the status of each dependent to continue receiving the  withdependent rate.  
H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 25 of 45

BAH Rate Protection In most cases, officers will have their BAH rate protected. Each year, when the BAH  rates change, the rate paid will be the greater of the new rate or the rate in effect the day previous to  the new rates. This protects officers in areas where rents have decreased, thus causing a decrease in the  published BAH rate. This rate protection does not apply in the following three circumstances, each of  which involves a change in status that could lead to a reduction in BAH:   1. Permanent change of station (PCS) will result in different rates of BAH based on an Officer's  new duty station. There is no rate protection when changing duty stations.   2. If an Officer is demoted, the BAH will revert to the current published rate appropriate to the  Officer's new grade. Promotions will not lower the housing allowance.   3. If there is a change in dependency status, the Officer's rate of BAH will be determined by  their new dependency status and the current published rate of BAH for the officer's grade  and duty station.   OVERSEAS HOUSING ALLOWANCE (OHA)  Officers stationed overseas, other than Alaska and Hawaii,  who live on the local economy are eligible to receive OHA. The monthly OHA amount is based on  comparing the officer's rent, up to a rental ceiling for the duty station, plus the utility/recurring  maintenance allowance. If a member owns quarters, the rent will be determined by dividing the  purchase price by 120 to determine the monthly rental rate.   COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA) is authorized to officers assigned to overseas areas to enable the  officer to maintain approximately the same standard of living as in the Continental United States  (CONUS). The rate established is based on the officer's grade, base pay entry date, and the actual  number of dependents residing in his or her household.   CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (CCOLA) is a taxable allowance paid to  officers assigned to designated highcost areas within CONUS. The CGOLA rates vary depending upon  the officer's rank and dependency status. Current rates can be found at  http://www.dtic.mil/perdiem/ccform.html.  
H

DISLOCATION ALLOWANCE (DLA)  An officer is eligible to receive a DLA if he or she relocates his or her  household as a result of a Permanent Change of Station (PCS). DLA is a nontaxable allowance that is  meant to partially reimburse the officer for expenses incurred in closing out his or her household and  establishing a new household. The amount of DLA authorized can be found in the Joint Federal Travel  Regulations (JFTR) Table U5G1. Note: The Compensation Branch does not process DLA. The procedure  for requesting DLA is similar to requests for travel and travel reimbursement, and is processed through  the Agency/OPDIV/Program.   U.S. SAVINGS BONDS  Many officers find that purchasing U.S. Savings Bonds from their salary is a  convenient and reliable way to systematically save money. Properly executed U.S. Savings Bonds  purchase/change request forms received by the Compensation Branch by the 10th of each month will  be implemented with that month's payroll. Commissioned officers must use form SB2362 for Series I  Bonds and for Series EE Bonds. The maximum number of Bonds that can be purchased by payroll  deduction continues to be three (I and EE combined).   Series EE Bonds are purchased for half their face value and may not be cashed for 6 months from the  date of issue. The minimum EE Bond denomination is $100. Series I Bonds are purchased for their full  face value. The minimum Series I Bond denomination is $50.   It is important to note that U.S. Savings Bonds will only be mailed to the officer's payroll address, which  is the same as that used for monthly earnings statements. It is generally recommended that your payroll  address be your home address rather than your business address, in order to safeguard privacy. U.S.  Savings Bonds information is also available on the following Web site  www.publicdebttreas.aov/sav/sav.htm.  
H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561 Payday  

Page 26 of 45

For activeduty officers, payday is usually the first day of the month. If the first day of the month is not a  workday, officers may expect to receive their pay on the previous workday. The exception is the  December payday, which is paid on the last workday of the month. The Compensation Branch must be  notified in writing of changes no later than the 10th of the month in order for the changes to be  processed in the current month. Allow 90 days for the processing of special pay contracts.   For retired officers, former spouses, and annuitants, payday is usually the first day of the month. If the  first day of the month is not a workday, retired officers, former spouses, and annuitants may expect to  receive their pay on the first workday following the first day of the month.                

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 27 of 45

Attachment C.     INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICE TO OFFERORS    1  General Instructions    1.1  Your attention is directed to the requirements for technical, past performance and business  proposals to be submitted in accordance with the following instructions establishing the acceptable  minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals.    1.2  The proposal must be prepared in three volumes: Volume I ­ "Technical Proposal", Volume II ­  "Past Performance Proposal" and Volume III ­ "Business Proposal".  Each of these parts shall be  separate and complete in itself so that the evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the  evaluation of the other.  It must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear  and concise presentation that includes, but is not limited to, the requirements of the technical proposal  instructions.    The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization. The proposal must be  submitted no later than September 3, 2010 at 3:00 pm EDT via email to  pscacquisitions@psc.gov in  Word compatible readonly format.  Offerors shall also reference the RFP number in the subject line of  their proposal:RFP10233SOL33561    1.3  By submitting a proposal in response to this solicitation:    It is understood that your proposal shall become a part of the official contract file.    The Government will evaluate your proposal in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth below  in section 16     This RFP does not commit the Government to pay any of the costs associated with the preparation and  submission of your proposal.  In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual authorized to  legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this requirement.    Any resultant contract shall include all applicable clauses to the type of contract awarded.  Copies of  clauses may be obtained by contacting the Contracting Officer.  Any additional clauses required by  public law, executive order, or acquisition regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed  contract, will be included.    2  Inquiries    All questions/inquiries concerning the solicitation document must be submitted by email  to the  Contracting Officer, no later than 9:00 am.. EDT, August 16, 2010, to permit sufficient time to provide  answers to all offerors.  Questions should be emailed to the following address:   Shelley.Namoski@psc.hhs.gov .   Offerors shall reference the RFP number in the subject line of their  email:  RFP10233SOL.    The Government's response to the inquiries will be posted on FedBizOpps.  Any resulting additions,  deletions or changes to the RFP will be made by issuance of a formal amendment.  Offerors are 
H H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 28 of 45

instructed specifically to contact only the issuing contract office in connection with any aspect of this  requirement prior to contract award.      3  Alternate Proposals    You may, at your discretion, submit an alternate proposal, or a proposal which deviates from the  requirements, provided that you also submit a proposal for the performance of the work as specified in  this RFP.  This proposal may be considered if overall performance would be improved or not  compromised, and if it is in the best interests of the Government.  An alternate proposal, or deviations  from any of the requirements of this RFP, must be clearly identified.    4  352.23973  Electronic information and technology accessibility (October 2009)    (a) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce  Investment Act of 1998, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and  Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR Part 1194), require that, unless an exception applies, all EIT  products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used by any Federal department or agency  permit    (1) Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use information and data that is  comparable to the access and use of  information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals  with disabilities; and  (2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from a Federal agency  to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information  and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities.  (b) Accordingly, any vendor submitting a proposal/quotation/bid in response to this solicitation must  demonstrate compliance with the established EIT accessibility standards. Information about Section 508 is  available at  http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed  at  http://www.accessboard.gov/sec508/provisions.htm.  (c) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this solicitation are identified in the descriptions  of the Government's requirements in other sections of this RFP. In order to facilitate the Government's  evaluation to determine whether EIT products and services proposed meet applicable Section 508  accessibility standards, offerors must prepare an HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, in  accordance with its completion instructions, and provide a binding statement of conformance. The purpose  of the template is to assist HHS acquisition and program officials in determining that EIT products and  services proposed support applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. The template allows vendors or  developers to selfevaluate their products or services and document in detail how they do or do not  conform to a specific Section 508 accessibility standard. Instructions for preparing the HHS Section 508  Evaluation Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability Web site  ( http://www.hhs.gov/od).  (d) Respondents to this solicitation must also provide any additional detailed information necessary for  determining applicable Section 508 accessibility standards conformance, as well as for documenting EIT  products or services that are incidental to the project, which would constitute an exception to Section 508  requirements. If a vendor claims its products or services, including EIT deliverables such as electronic  documents and reports, meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in its completed HHS Section  508 Product Assessment Template, and it is later determined by the Governmenti.e., after award of a  contract/order, that products or services delivered do not conform to the described accessibility standards  in the Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance  specified in the vendor's Product Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor and at its  expense.   
H H H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 29 of 45

5  Technical Proposal Instructions    The technical proposal should reflect a clear understanding of the nature of the work being undertaken.   Offerors are advised that a proposal which merely offers to conduct a program in accordance with the  requirements of the Government will not be eligible for award.  Proposals shall clearly demonstrate the  Offeror's competence, technical understanding and approach in order to accomplish the requirements  set forth in this RFP.    The proposal shall include a description of the techniques and procedures to be employed in achieving  the proposed end results in compliance with the requirements of the Government.  The Offeror is  hereby advised that the Government, unless otherwise specified, i.e., by law will acquire the right to  use, duplicate, or disclose in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and have or permit others  to do so, all subject data required to be delivered under any contract resulting from this solicitation.   Any reservations to those stated Government rights to data should be enunciated in your proposal  and will be resolved during any subsequent negotiations.    The proposal must include information on how the project is to be organized, staffed and managed.   Information should be provided which will demonstrate your understanding and management of  important events or tasks.  How the management and coordination of consultant and/or subcontractor  efforts shall be accomplished must be explained, if applicable to your proposal.    A list of names and proposed duties of the professional personnel, consultants, and key subcontractor  employees assigned to the project must be provided.  Their resumes shall be included and should  contain information on education, background, recent experience, and specific scientific or technical  accomplishments.  The approximate percentage of time each individual will be available for this project  must be included with a milestone chart.      The Offeror must provide the general background, experience and qualifications of the organization.    Similar or related contracts, subcontracts or grants should be included and contain the name of the  customer, contract or grant number, dollar amount, time of performance and the names and telephone  numbers of the Project Officer and Contracting/Grants Officer.    The technical proposal must contain a description of the availability (time committed to the project) and  adequacy (sufficient to perform the tasks without having to acquire or contract for additional  equipment) of the Offeror's facilities and equipment.      The technical proposal must contain a detailed discussion of the problems, by task that might occur  during the contract period and how these might be resolved.   

6

TECHNICAL EVALUATION

  1.  General    The Offeror should demonstrate in its proposal that the objectives in the solicitation are understood  and offer a logical approach to their achievement.  The technical evaluation will be conducted in  accordance with the evaluation criteria below.  The Government may award a contract on the basis  of initial offers received, without discussions.  Therefore, each initial offer should contain the  Offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561     2.   Evaluation Criteria (100 points)    

Page 30 of 45

The evaluation will be based on the completeness, thoroughness and demonstrated capabilities of  the prospective Offeror in relation to the needs of the project as set forth in the RFQ.  Each proposal  must document the feasibility of successful implementation of the requirements of the RFQ.  The  Offeror should show that the objectives stated in the proposal are understood and offer a logical  program for their achievement.  Offerors must submit information sufficient to evaluate their  proposals based on the detailed criteria listed below.    Specific evaluation factors, together with their relative weights of importance, are listed below.   Offerors should provide information on all of the following criteria.    UNDERSTANDING OF THE REQUIREMENT AND TECHNICAL APPROACH­50 pts.    Offerors shall demonstrate a complete and thorough understanding of the scope and  complexity of the statement of work and specifications.  The offeror shall, through a detailed  technical approach, be able to explain the challenges and complexities involved in providing  Commissioned Corps personnel and payroll functional, operational, and technical support  services to the USPHS.  Specifically address the methods and approaches to deliver the services  identified in the statement of work.  (not to exceed 8 pages)    CORPORATE EXPERIENCE ­  15 pts.    This factor assesses the offeror's overall capabilities considering such factors as corporate  experience and knowledge of military/federal human resources and payroll issues pertaining  specifically to the technical approach offered.  This includes data and process migration,  implementation, maintenance and overall service.  It is incumbent on each offeror to highlight  corporate experience and knowledge of federal personnel processing and specific technical  methodologies and practices.   Each offeror must provide a minimum of two recent past  contracts along with client names, address and telephone contacts.    KEY PERSONNEL ­ 35 pts.    This factor considers overall experience of the proposed staff as it relates to successful  implementations of systems of corresponding complexity and methodology as well as the depth  of knowledge with the proposed technology offered (functional and technical skills).  As a  minimum the staff must possess the qualifications defined in Attachment A, Section 12.0.    7  Past Performance Proposal Instructions    Offerors should note that Past Performance relates to the "quality" and how well a Contractor  performed the services under a relevant contract.   Offerors shall submit the following information as part of their proposal:    a.   A list of no more than three (3) completed or active contracts for related or similar services.   The Government will evaluate past performance on contracts that are similar in nature to the  requirements of this RFP.  Contracts listed shall include those entered into with the Federal 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 31 of 45

Government, agencies of state and local governments or commercial customers.  Include the following  information for each contract:    1.  Name of Contracting Organization;  2.  Contract Number;  3.  Contract Type;  4.  Total Contract Value;  5.  Description of Requirement;  6.  Contracting Officer's Name, Telephone Number and Facsimile Number;   7.  Contracting Officer's Technical Representative's (COTR) Name, Telephone Number and Facsimile  Number; and  8.  Explanation/Comments Regarding Problems Encountered and Corrective Actions Taken.    b.  The Offeror must include a list of three (3)) of its proposed subcontractors' recent completed or  active contracts for related or similar services, related to the portion of work the subcontractor will be  performing, inclusive of the information noted in Section 7a, items 1 through 8 immediately above.      c.  Each Offeror will be evaluated on its performance under existing and prior contracts which are  similar in nature to the requirements of this RFP.  The Government is not required to contact all  references   provided by the Offeror.  Also, references other than those identified by the Offeror  may be contacted by The Government to obtain additional information that will be used in the  evaluation of the Offeror's past performance.  Information for the evaluation of past performance will  be randomly requested from the list of references (see 7a, above) or other sources as previously stated.   Past Performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as source  selection factor, consistent with section 16 below.    d.  The Government will assess an overall past performance rating for each reference contacted.   The overall ratings for each reference will then be averaged to arrive at a final past performance rating.   References for subcontractors will contribute to the past performance score in relation to the  percentage of the work subcontractors will be performing.   OFFERORS MUST STATE THE PERCENTAGE  OF WORK (BASED ON DIRECT LABOR) EACH SUBCONTRACTOR WILL PERFORM.    e.  Offerors are further advised that thorough and complete past performance information is  required.  Explanations/comments regarding problems encountered and corrective actions taken shall  be addressed as a part of the proposal submitted in response to this solicitation.  The Government will  take the Offerors' comments into consideration when conducting its past performance evaluation.   OFFERORS MAY NOT BE GIVEN ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED IN  PAST PERFORMANCE.   

8.  PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION   30  POINTS    The past performance evaluation will be based on information obtained from references  provided by the Offeror, as well as other relevant past performance information  obtained from other sources known to the Government.    When evaluating past performance, the Government will focus on the areas of Quality  of Service, Timeliness of Performance, Price/Cost Control, and Customer Satisfaction.    In the event the Government receives a proposal from an Offeror who does not have a  past performance record, the Government will average the past performance rating of 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 32 of 45

all Offerors submitting technically acceptable proposals and apply the average rating to  the Offeror=s proposal.    Evaluation Scheme    The Government will assess an overall past performance rating for each reference  contacted.  The overall rating of each reference will then be combined to arrive at a final  past performance rating which will be assigned points based on the following rating  scheme:    Definition    Exceptional    ++ (PlusPlus)  performance which exceeds the performance level described as  AExcellent@.  It is expected that this rating will be sued in those  rare instances when Contractor performance clearly  demonstrates a level of quality/innovation/performance well  beyond the contract requirements warranting the assignment of  the highest possible rating.  The Contractor demonstrates an excellent performance level in all  categories.  There have been no performance problems and the  Contractor has demonstrated initiative to enhance/exceed  contractual requirements and objectives.  The Contractor also has  maintained an excellent Contractor/Government relationship  throughout contract performance  There are no quality of service problems; no cost/price issues; and  no delays. Responses to inquiries and technical/service  administrative issues are consistently effective and responsive.   Nonconformance do not impact achievement of contract  requirements.  Nonconformance's are minor and have little impact in  achievement of contract requirements, requires minor  intervention by Government personnel to resolve issues.  Nonconformance's are impacting achievement of contract  requirements, requires substantial intervention by Government  personnel to resolve issues.  Nonconformance's are compromising the achievement of  contract requirements, despite substantive intervention by  Government personnel.  Description  The Contractor has demonstrated an excellent level of 

  Excellent 

  Good 

  Acceptable 

  Marginal 

  Unacceptable 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 33 of 45

9  Business Proposal Instructions    The Offeror's proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP.   In addition, it must contain a statement to the effect that the offer is firm for a period of at least 90 days  from the date of receipt by the Government. Offerors shall submit proposals and data comprehensive  enough to provide the basis for a sound evaluation.  The information should be precise, factual and  responsive.   

The business proposal shall be based on the Offeror=s current commercial  practices/catalog/price list.  The proposal shall provide a detailed explanation of your labor  hour price, i.e., labor categories, labor hourly rates, manhours and personnel per labor  category.  In addition, any other direct costs, inclusive of travel, shall be provided and  supported by the Offeror.      A price analysis will be conducted on the proposed prices as well as a cost realism analysis using  the price breakdown information submitted by the Offeror.  Cost realism is defined as the  Offeror=s ability to project costs which are realistic for the work to be performed, indicates that  the Offeror understands the nature and the extent of the work to be performed, and is  consistent with the various elements of the Offeror=s technical proposal.      Please note: All work associated with this requirement shall be performed either onsite at the  Government site in Rockville, Maryland or at the Offeror=s business location.    The Government has provided an estimated level of effort for this task by labor category.   Offerors are free to propose a level of effort other than the level of effort estimated and/or the  numbers and/or experience levels of staff required to ensure successful task performance.     It is recognized that the labor category titles may not be consistent with your labor category  titles.  Please use your comparable titles and provide a chart showing the SOW Labor  Category and your equivalent labor category title.  Include minimum requirements for each  of your labor categories.      Please provide the hourly rate for each labor category proposed.  Provide a total cost for  each labor category by multiplying the number of proposed hours by the hourly rate for each  category.  Summarize your total estimated cost for both the initial period and the option  periods.  Both costs will be evaluated.    10.  Consideration and Payment     1.  Implementation Phase   (Basic Period: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work described in Attachment A, Phase I   Implementation Phase the Contractor will be paid a firmfixedprice of $          .   

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 34 of 45

Partial payments will be authorized in the following amounts upon receipt, review and  acceptance of the stated deliverables:        FIXED PRICE  DELIVERABLE/TASK      1.A Project Plan(5%)                                           $ *           2.  Requirements Document (10%)  $ *           3.  A Design Document (10%)    $ *           4.  A Test Plan (10%)      $ *             5.  An Implementation Plan (10%)  $ *           6.  A Training Plan (10%)      $ *           7.  An Alpha Prototype showing   the basics of the selfservice   module, the payroll technician   capabilities, and application   administration tools (10%)    $ *          8.  A Beta Prototype including the   implementation of all facets of the   Requirements Document including   interface solutions (10%)    $ *          9.  The successful execution of the   Test Plan (10%)      $ *           10.  The successful execution of the  Implementation Plan (15%)    $ *             Total Amount          $ *            * To be completed upon award.  

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 35 of 45

OPTION PERIOD ONE    1.  Post Implementation Phase  Alternative A   (Option Period One: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work described in Attachment A, the  Contractor shall be compensated for the number of hours actually incurred at the fixed loaded  hourly rates set forth below.  Other direct costs, if applicable, shall be paid at actual cost.      FixedLoaded    Estimated   Ceiling  Price  Labor Category  Hourly Rate    Hours                                                                                $                                                                                                   $                                                                     $                                                           Other Direct Costs:               $___________      Total:                   $___________      The Government shall not be obligated to pay any amount in excess of the ceiling price, nor is  the Contractor obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price.    2.  Production and Maintenance Phase  Alternative B   (Option Period One: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    The Government shall reimburse the Contractor on a monthly basis for successful production  runs according to the following sliding scale:    Number of Payees  011,000  11,00116,000  16, 001  21,000  over 21, 0000        Cost per Payee Per Month  $  $  $  $ 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 36 of 45

OPTION PERIOD TWO    1.  Post Implementation Phase  Alternative A   (Option Period Two: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award )    In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work described in Attachment A, the  Contractor shall be compensated for the number of hours actually incurred at the fixed loaded  hourly rates set forth below.  Other direct costs, if applicable, shall be paid at actual cost.      FixedLoaded    Estimated   Ceiling  Price  Labor Category  Hourly Rate    Hours                                                                                  $                                                                                                   $                                                                     $                                                           Other Direct Costs:               $___________      Total:                   $___________      The Government shall not be obligated to pay any amount in excess of the ceiling price, nor is  the Contractor obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price.    2.  Production and Maintenance Phase  Alternative B   (Option Period Two: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    The Government shall reimburse the Contractor on a monthly basis for successful production  runs according to the following sliding scale:    Number of Payees  011,000  11,00116,000  16, 001  21,000  over 21, 0000        Cost per Payee Per Month  $  $  $  $ 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 37 of 45

OPTION PERIOD THREE    1.  Post Implementation Phase  Alternative A   (Option Period Three: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work described in Attachment A, the  Contractor shall be compensated for the number of hours actually incurred at the fixed loaded  hourly rates set forth below.  Other direct costs, if applicable, shall be paid at actual cost.      FixedLoaded    Estimated   Ceiling  Price  Labor Category  Hourly Rate    Hours                                                                                $                                                                                                   $                                                                     $                                                           Other Direct Costs:               $___________      Total:                   $___________      The Government shall not be obligated to pay any amount in excess of the ceiling price, nor is  the Contractor obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price.    2.  Production and Maintenance Phase  Alternative B   (Option Period Three: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    The Government shall reimburse the Contractor on a monthly basis for successful production  runs according to the following sliding scale:    Number of Payees  011,000  11,00116,000  16, 001  21,000  over 21, 0000        Cost per Payee Per Month  $  $  $  $ 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 38 of 45

OPTION PERIOD FOUR    1.  Post Implementation Phase  Alternative A   (Option Period Four: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award )    In consideration of satisfactory performance of the work described in Attachment A, the  Contractor shall be compensated for the number of hours actually incurred at the fixed loaded  hourly rates set forth below.  Other direct costs, if applicable, shall be paid at actual cost.      FixedLoaded    Estimated   Ceiling  Price  Labor Category  Hourly Rate    Hours                                                                                $                                                                                                   $                                                                     $                                                           Other Direct Costs:               $___________      Total:                   $___________      The Government shall not be obligated to pay any amount in excess of the ceiling price, nor is  the Contractor obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price.    2.  Production and Maintenance Phase  Alternative B   (Option Period Four: Exact dates to be entered upon contract award)    The Government shall reimburse the Contractor on a monthly basis for successful production  runs according to the following sliding scale:    Number of Payees  011,000  11,00116,000  16, 001  21,000  over 21, 0000 
   

Cost per Payee Per Month  $  $  $  $ 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 39 of 45

11.  FAR 52.21520 Requirements For Cost Or Pricing Data Or Information Other Than Cost Or  Pricing Data (OCT 1997) Alternate IV (OCT 1997)    (a)  Submission of cost or pricing data is not required.    (b)  Provide the information described below:   

 

Commercial Item Practices/Catalog/Price List    The Offeror shall include a copy of current commercial item practices/catalog/price list.    The following information must be readily identifiable:  a.  Federal Tax Identification Number (TIN);  Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number;  Business Size (e.g., small or large);  Ethnic Group, if applicable (AsianIndian American; AsianPacific American; Black  American; Hispanic American; Native American; Other SDB Certified /  Determined by SBA; No Representation); and  Preferences (include all that apply) Labor Surplus; Woman Owned; Veteran  Owned; Vietnam Veteran Owned; Disabled Veteran Owned; Emerging Sm.  Business; SDB; Minority Owned; Minority Notification; Local Vendor; Enterprise  Zone; HUBZone Sm. Business). 

    b.    c.    d. 

  e.. 

 
  1. Financial Capacity  The Offeror shall indicate if it has the necessary financial capacity, working  capital, and other resources to perform this contract without assistance from any outside sources.  (If  not, indicate the amount required, the anticipated source, and associated costs for such support.)  The  Offeror shall submit any information deemed relevant to convincingly demonstrate its ability to perform  the requirement from a financial point of view; this may include providing a copy of the Offeror's most  recent financial statement.    2.  Facilities/Equipment ­ It is HHS policy that Contractors shall provide all facilities and equipment  necessary for performance of contracts.  Exceptions may be granted to furnish Governmentowned  property, only when approved by the head of the procuring activity.  If additional equipment must be  acquired, the Offeror shall include the description, estimated cost of each item, and whether the  prospective Offeror will furnish such items with its own funds.  The Offeror must identify Government owned property in its possession and/or property acquired from Federal funds to which title vests in the  offeror and that is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract.  The  management and control of any Government property shall be in accordance with HHS regulations.    Any equipment having a unit acquisition cost in excess of $1,000, the cost of which the Contractor is to  be reimbursed as a direct cost, shall not be acquired by the Contractor without the specific advance  written approval of the Project Officer.    

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 40 of 45

3.  Additional Facilities ­ In the event the Offeror contemplates acquiring additional facilities in the  performance of this work, such facilities shall be separately identified.    4.  Commitments  The Offeror shall list commitments of key personnel with other clients/contracts and  indicate whether these commitments will or will not interfere with the completion of work and services  contemplated to be completed under this contract.    Subcontractors shall also submit a cost proposal fully supported by cost and pricing information, as  detailed above.    Please note that since an award may be made without discussions, Offerors are advised to follow the  proposal instructions carefully, so that a comprehensive and accurate assessment of your costs can be  made.    12.0  Central Contractor Registry    52.2047 Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008)    (a) Definitions. As used in this clause--  "Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database" means the primary Government repository for  Contractor information required for the conduct of business with the Government.  "Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number" means the 9digit number assigned by Dun and  Bradstreet, Inc. (D&B) to identify unique business entities.  "Data Universal Numbering System+4 (DUNS+4) number" means the DUNS number means the number  assigned by D&B plus a 4character suffix that may be assigned by a business concern. (D&B has no  affiliation with this 4character suffix.) This 4character suffix may be assigned at the discretion of the  business concern to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer  (EFT) accounts (see the FAR at Subpart 32.11) for the same concern.  "Registered in the CCR database" means that--  (1) The Contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the DUNS number or the  DUNS+4 number, into the CCR database; and  (2) The Government has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of the Taxpayer  Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and has marked the record "Active".  The Contractor will be required to provide consent for TIN validation to the Government as a part of the  CCR registration process.  (b) (1) By submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee  shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance, and through final payment  of any contract, basic agreement, basic ordering agreement, or blanket purchasing agreement resulting  from this solicitation.  (2) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the  annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror's  name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The DUNS number will be used by the Contracting  Officer to verify that the offeror is registered in the CCR database.  (c) If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain  one.  (1) An offeror may obtain a DUNS number--  (i) Via the internet at  http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the offeror does not have internet  access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at 18667055711 if located within the United States; or 
B H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 41 of 45

(ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The  offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the  local Dun and Bradstreet office.  (2) The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information:  (i) Company legal business name.  (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized.  (iii) Company physical street address, city, state and Zip Code.  (iv) Company mailing address, city, state and Zip Code (if separate from physical).  (v) Company telephone number.  (vi) Date the company was started.  (vii) Number of employees at your location.  (viii) Chief executive officer/key manager.  (ix) Line of business (industry).  (x) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity).  (d) If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the  Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful  registered Offeror.  (e) Processing time, which normally takes 48 hours, should be taken into consideration when registering.  Offerors who are not registered should consider applying for registration immediately upon receipt of  this solicitation.  (f) The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database,  and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To  remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review  and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information  in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR  does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed  contractual document.  (g) (1) (i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division  name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the  contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and changeofname  agreements in Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a  minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to:  (A) Change the name in the CCR database;   (B) Comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12 of the FAR;  (C) Agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible  Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient  documentation to support the legally changed name.  (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this clause, or  fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (g)(1)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly  executed novation or changeofname agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be  other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within  the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of  this contract.     (2) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as  appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see FAR 

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 42 of 45

Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database.  Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by  EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information  within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract.     (h) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation  requirements via the Internet at  http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 18882272423, or 2699615757.  (End of Clause)    13.0  Representations and Certifications     52.2048  Annual Representations and Certifications (Feb 2009)  (a)  (1) The North American Industry classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 524114.  (2) The small business size standard is $5.0 M.  (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other  than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself  manufacture, is 500 employees.  (b)  (1) If the clause at 52.2047, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation,  paragraph (d) of this provision applies.  (2) If the clause at 52.2047 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered  in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this  provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certification in the  solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:  [_] (i) Paragraph (d) applies.  [_] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual  representations and certifications in the solicitation.  (c) (1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as  indicated:  (i) 52.2032, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to  solicitations when a firmfixedprice contract or fixedprice contract with economic price  adjustment is contemplated, unless--  (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13;  (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under twostep sealed bidding  procedures; or  (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.  (ii) 52.20311, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal  Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $100,000.  (iii) 52.2043, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include  the clause at 52.2047, Central Contractor Registration.  (iv) 52.2045, WomenOwned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to  solicitations that--  (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns;  (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and  (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.  (v) 52.2095, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to  solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.  (vi) 52.21414, Place of PerformanceSealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for  bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. 
H B

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 43 of 45

(vii) 52.2156, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of  performance is specified by the Government.  (viii) 52.2191, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision  applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying  areas.  (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD,  NASA, and the Coast Guard.  (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the  Coast Guard.  (ix) 52.2192, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed  bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.  (x) 52.22222, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations  that include the clause at 52.22226, Equal Opportunity.  (xi) 52.22225, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than  those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.22226, Equal  Opportunity.  (xii) 52.22238, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision  applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified  acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items.  (xiii) 52.2231, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require  the delivery or specify the use of USDAdesignated items; or include the clause at 52.2232,  Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.  (xiv) 52.2234, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are  for, or specify the use of, EPA designated items.  (xv) 52.2252, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the  clause at 52.2251.  (xvi) 52.2254, Buy American ActFree Trade AgreementsIsraeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic,  Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at  52.225 3.  (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies.  (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision  with its Alternate I applies.  (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision  with its Alternate II applies.  (xvii) 52.2256, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing  the clause at 52.2255.  (xviii) 52.22520, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan Certification.  (xix) 52.2262, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation.  This provision applies to--  (A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired  from higher educational institutions; and  (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at  52.21923, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business  Concerns.   (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online  Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at  http://orca.bpn.gov . After reviewing  the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations  and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph 
H

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 44 of 45

(c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate,  complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS  code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by  reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes,  identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or  certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date  of this offer.  FAR Clause          Title          Date          Change         

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not  result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.  (End of Provision)     14.0  FAR 52.21516 Facilities Capital Cost of Money (JUN 2003)    (a)  Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the  criteria for allowability in subparagraph 31.20510(a)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation are met.   One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of  money in its offer.    (b)  If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the  clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money.    15.0  FAR 52.2161 Type of Contract (APR 1984)    The Government contemplates award of a Fixed Price contract.    16.0    FAR 52.23302  Service Of Protest (SEP 2006)    (a)      Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed  directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office  (GAO) shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated  acknowledgment of receipt from the Department of Health and Human Services, Program Support  Center,  Division of Acquisitions Management, AOS, Parklawn Building, Room 5101, 5600 Fishers Lane,  Rockville, Maryland  20857.   (b)     The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above on the    same day a  protest is filed with the GSBCA or within one day of filing a protest    with the GAO.    17. FAR 52.2175  EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990) 

  Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government=s  best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price  for all options to the total price for the basic requirement.  Evaluation of options will not  obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).     

RFP: 10-233-SOL-33561

Page 45 of 45

 

18.  FAR 52.2521 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated By Reference (FEB 1998)    This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation   provisions by reference, with the same force  and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the   Contracting Officer will make their full  text available.  The Offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be  completed by the Offeror and   submitted with its quotation or offer.  In lieu of submitting the full text  of those provisions, the Offeror may identify the provisions by paragraph identifier and provide the  appropriate information with its quotation or offer.  Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be  accessed electronically at these addresses: FAR   http://www.acqnet.gov/far and HHSAR  http://dhhs.gov/asfr/ogapa/acquisition/acquisitionpolicies.html       FAR CLAUSE    TITLE AND DATE    52.2151     Instructions to Offerors  Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004)   Alternate II (OCT 1997)     52.22246     Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees (FEB 1993)    TITLE AND DATE    HHSAR CLAUSE     352.2151     Instructions to Offerors  Competitive Acquisition    19.0    Source Selection     The Government is not required to make any awards as a result of this solicitation.  Any awards made  will reflect the Government's judgment of best value based on an evaluation of technical, cost, and past  performance.  Offerors are advised that all evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined,  are significantly more important than cost or price but cost or price will be a factor in any best value  judgment. Accordingly, the government intends to award the contract(s) to the offeror(s) is evaluated  by the government as the best  overall value in terms of its technical approach, past performance and  startup and administrative costs.       
H H

