<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHU0001-10-T-0059.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHU0001-10-T-0059.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, AND 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF

33

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

HU0001-10-T-0059
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL: a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect Calls)

09-Jun-2010
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

JODY BESTER
CODE

301-295-1914
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS % FOR BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE

05:00 PM 23 Jun 2010
12. DISCOUNT TERMS

9. ISSUED BY UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES DIRECTORATE OF CONTRACTING 4301 JONES BRIDGE RD BETHESDA MD 20814-4799

HU0001

X

UNRESTRICTED SET ASIDE: SB HUBZONE SB 8(A) SVC-DISABLED VET-OWNED SB

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION NAICS:

TEL: (301)295-3065 FAX: (301)295-1716
15. DELIVER TO CODE

EMERGING SB SIZE STD: 16. ADMINISTERED BY

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

SEE SCHEDULE

17a.CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

18a. PAY MENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TEL.

FACILITY CODE

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO.

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES

SEE SCHEDULE
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Gov t. Use Only )

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1. 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3. 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. X 1 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN 1 COPIES

ADDENDA ADDENDA

X ARE
ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE OFFER DATED . Y OUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

X

TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a.UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER) 31c. DATE SIGNED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER
(TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

(TYPE OR PRINT)

TEL:

EMAIL:

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (CONTINUED)
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

PAGE 2 OF 33 24. AMOUNT

SEE SCHEDULE

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: ______________________________________________________ 32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f . TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAY MENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAY MENT 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 41c. DATE 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFY ING OFFICER 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) BACK Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 3 of 33 Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET DESCRIPTION OF REQUIREMENT

Uniformed Services University Business Intelligence Tool Statement of Work The Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU) includes the F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine providing a year-round, four-year curriculum similar to that found at other U.S. medical schools. Doctoral and masters degrees in the biomedical sciences and public health are awarded by interdisciplinary and departmentbased graduate programs within the School of Medicine. The USU Graduate School of Nursing offers a Master of Science in Nursing degree in Nurse Anesthesia, Family Nurse Practitioner, Preoperative Nursing; Doctorate of Nursing Practice, and a Ph.D. degree in Nursing Science. The University has a growing portfolio of credit and continuing education courses. The USU conducts over $100M in federal and privately funded research through its departments and centers. All USU faculty conduct research and their work is leveraged to provide current education to our medical and graduate students. For additional information about the USU, please see the attached "Fingertip Facts." Similarly to all institutions of higher education, the USU conducts a variety of financial, administrative and personnel actions every day. With this requirement, the USU seeks a Business Intelligence Tool to enable user-driven data analysis and reporting on the USU research, administrative and academic data. STATEMENT OF WORK Introduction: This statement of work details the requirements for system capabilities, implementation requirements, and training for a USU business intelligence tool. Two data architects (database analyst/application developers) and 60 users will be supported in the system rollout. Initial implementation of the tool will be targeted at the USU research management data analysis: Task 1: Task 2: Task 3: Task 4: Task 5: Software package or appliance system Implementation Configuration to perform data analysis of COEUS User and data analyst training Travel costs

TASK 1: SOFTWARE PACKAGE (CLIN 0001): The contractor will provide a software package or appliance system for installation on the USU network. Offerors must

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 4 of 33

address how their product meets the following criteria as outlined below in the system capabilities specifications. SYSTEM CAPABILITIES SPECIFICATIONS A. User Interface a. All user interaction with the system will be Web based. i. System must fully support PCs operating Widows Internet Explorer 7 ii. System must fully support Macintosh Leopard and Snow Leopard OS and Firefox or Safari Web browsers b. Dashboard Interface i. Dashboard provides access to user created reports B. Reporting a. The system must provide canned reports for COEUS, finance, and academic functions b. The system must provide all reporting capability through a Web interface c. System must enable users to create reports with limited or no IT staff support d. System must enable user created reports to be saved and shared e. System to enable e-mail notification of reports f. System to enable PDF generation of reports g. System to enable automated notification to users of changes in report data based on user established triggers h. System to support establishing a standard report that can be generated and sent to specific personnel on a specified date. C. Modules a. System must provide predefined modules for higher education activities to include: i. Applicant reporting ii. Student transcript iii. Matriculation/Graduation analysis iv. Grade reporting v. Test analysis vi. Student tracking b. Grant Management c. Alumni Management i. Pledge and donation reporting

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 5 of 33

d. Finance i. Budgeting ii. "What if" scenarios iii. Forecasting D. Security a. System must support LDAP and Active Directory Authentication b. System must support role based security c. System must support group based security d. Group and role based security can either be established at the LDAP/AD server or within the Business Intelligence Tool e. Access to data and reports can be limited through user, role and group based security f. Users can establish local security over reports E. USU Architecture Support a. System may come as an appliance or software with clear hardware specifications, pricing must be inclusive of all licenses b. System must directly support Oracle or perform ETL from the USU Oracle database c. System must support reporting against MIT COEUS (http://osp.mit.edu/coeus) and Kuali COEUS (http://www.kuali.org/kc) TASK 2: IMPLEMENTATION (CLIN 0002): The contractor, in conjunction with USU IT personnel, will implement the business intelligence tool. Implementation includes installation and configuration on the USU network. The contractor, working with the USU's two data architects will configure the tool to extract report and analysis data from the USU Corporate Database which is Oracle 11. The USU will be required to perform DOD Gold Disk procedures on the Operating System and the software/appliance. The contractor will address technical changes to the business intelligence tool required by the Gold Disk process. In the event that technical changes cannot be made to the business intelligence tool, the contractor will assist the USU in writing the required risk mitigation documentation. TASK 3: COEUS INTEGRATION (CLIN 0003): The contractor, working with USU IT personnel and USU Office of Research will integrate the business intelligence tool with the MIT COEUS system operating at the USU. The contractor will load COEUS data, create standard reports and configure security and data access on the system. The contractor will develop a dashboard interface for user access to the COEUS data. TASK 4: TRAINING (CLIN 0004): The offeror will provide on-site and remote training for the data architects and users. Data architect training will focus on system operation,

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 6 of 33

configuration and tuning, data loading, data warehouse/universe creation and other necessary functions to support the system. Data architect training can occur onsite or remotely. User training will focus on system operation, report design, analytical tools and COEUS specific functions. Offeror will include a minimum of one on-site and one remote training session for 10 people in each session in the proposal. TASK 5: TRAVEL COSTS (CLIN 0005): Travel requirements will be identified in the proposal. Travel costs will be evaluated as part of the price evaluation. DELIVERABLES BY TASK: CLIN # CLIN 0001 CLIN 0002 Title Application/Appliance (Task 1) Business Intelligence Tool Implementation and Configuration (Task 2) Description Period (business days) 30 days after award

CLIN 0003

CLIN 0004

Business Intelligence Tool Integration with COEUS (Task 3) Business Intelligence Tool Training (Task 4) Travel Costs (Task 5)

Software package or Appliance system for installation on USU network Install and configure 40 days after award business intelligence tool on the USU network. Integrate the tool with data from the USU's Oracle database. Support USU DOD Gold Disk validation. Integrate business Start 45 days after intelligence tool with the USU award. version of MIT COEUS Provide onsite and remote training to Kuali Administrator and Workflow developer Travel costs associated with Tasks 1 ­ 4. Start 10 days after completion of deliverable 3

CLIN 0005

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 7 of 33

QUESTIONS Question Submittal Offerors may submit questions/clarifications in reference to any areas of the RFP. Questions/clarifications must be submitted via email to the contract specialist. Submitted questions/clarifications will not be accepted by any other means. Questions/clarifications must identify the section of the RFQ. Questions/clarifications will be answered in an amendment to the solicitation. Questions/clarifications will not be discussed over the phone. All questions/clarifications must be submitted by COB June 16, 2010. Questions submitted after this date will not be answered unless a deficiency is identified, which would compromise the quality of the proposals received in response to this solicitation. Contract Specialist: Ms. Jody Bester (jody.bester@usuhs.mil) EVALUATION FACTORS Award will be made to contractors representing the best value to the Government, using tradeoffs between the evaluation factors listed below. Tradeoffs allow the Government to select those contractors representing the best value to the Government by conducting a tradeoff between the evaluation factors. The Government is not required to award to the lowest priced offeror or the highest technically rated offeror. Award will be made to the offeror whose offer is technically acceptable and whose Technical Expertise, Past Performance, and Price are the best value to the Government. The Government reserves the right to award without discussions. The Government may reject any proposal that has been determined to be unrealistic in terms of technical approach or price, when compared to the Government estimate, market research and other offerors. Proposals may also be rejected if the offeror does not display a clear understanding of the requirements or the terms and conditions, in their proposal. I. Technical Expertise: The Government will evaluate the offeror's technical expertise in the performance of the Tasks. Offerors will provide a technical proposal that documents the offerors approach to each component of the Task. II. Past Performance: The Government shall evaluate the offeror's present and past performance on similar tasks within the past three years. Offerors must provide a list of ten (10) relevant contracts within the past three (3) years. The Government reserves the right to select which references to contact. The following must be provided for each listed contract: i. Name of client and address

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 8 of 33

ii. Name of current point of contact including telephone number , e-mail address and title iii. Contract number iv. Contract value v. Contract period of performance vi. Brief description of services provided Offerors may provide copies of recent past performance evaluations. USUHS may request additional information at any time. Three (3) completed past performance surveys must be submitted. The surveys must be submitted by the customer reference by the due date of proposals. The surveys must be emailed to the listed contract specialist. Past performance surveys included in the proposal, but not received directly from the customer reference will not be considered. When a subcontractor is proposed on a Task past performance surveys may be submitted for subcontractors. Offerors will have an opportunity to address any adverse past performance history. Offerors who do not have any past performance history will not be rated favorably or unfavorably, but will instead receive a Neutral/Unknown rating for past performance. Offerors must clearly state in their proposal if they do not have at least three (3) past performance references. Failure to provide this information will render an offeror's proposal non-responsive and will not be considered for award. Offerors may provide past performance surveys for subcontractors they have worked with on previous and/or current contracts; however the majority of the past performance surveys must be for the offeror. More than three (3) past performance surveys will be accepted. The following numeric ratings will be used to evaluate past performance on the past performance surveys: Numeric Rating 5 4 3 2 1 N/A

Definition Vendor has greatly exceeded the customer's expectat ion and has provided service in excess of the requirement. Vendor has exceeded the customer's expectation. Vendor has met the customer's expectation. Vendor has met the customer's expectation, with minimal problems. Vendor has not met the customer's expectation. Neutral/Unknown Confidence

A strong history of relevant past performance may be more advantageous to the Government than a less relevant record of favorable performance. The most weight will

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 9 of 33

be given to relevant past performance in the area of support services provided to medical universities/institutions. The Government reserves the right to use data provided by the offeror and data provided by alternative sources in conducting its assessment of past performance history. If offerors provide their email address in the Past Performance Survey, an email will be sent to the listed email address by USU that a Past Performance Survey was received and the name of the client submitting the survey. The Past Performance Survey is attached in the FBO Posting. III. Corporate Experience: Offerors are required to provide a narrative of their corporate experience in providing support in the following areas: Implementation of the task-specific software at institutions of higher education Configuration, modification and integration with Oracle 11 and MIT COEUS Deliverables: With a focus on the range of previous experience. Technical Support: With a focus on the qualifications of technical support team and how technical support is provided (emergency configuration changes, phone support, turn-around of questions, etc) Training: With a focus on the type(s) of training provided to customers. Offerors or subcontractors are required to have Corporate Experience in all areas identified. Offerors are required to provide resumes of key personnel in the following positions/capabilities: Project Manager(s) Personnel providing support for requirements analysis, configuration, modification or integration. Training (as appropriate for the task) Technical Support (as appropriate for the task) Offerors may provide resumes for additional positions the offeror feels are key to successful performance. Offerors must indicate whether resumes provided are current employees or possible future employees. Any offeror providing a resume of an individual for an identified key position, who will not be available during contract performance, must provide an alternative with comparable qualifications. IV. Price Proposal: Offerors provide fixed-prices for each CLIN listed in the attached solicitation (SF 1449).

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 10 of 33

ITEM NO 0001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Software Package FFP - Software package or appliance system for installation on USU network FOB: Destination

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0002

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Implementation and Configuration FFP - Install and configure business intelligence tool on the USU netork - Integrate the tool with data from the USU's Oracle database - Support USU DOD Gold Disk validation FOB: Destination

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0003

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Integration with COEUS FFP - Integrate business intelligence tool with the USU version of MIT COEUS FOB: Destination

NET AMT

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 11 of 33

ITEM NO 0004

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Training FFP - Provide onsite and remote training to Kuali Administrator and Workflow developer FOB: Destination

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0005

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Travel Expenses FFP - Provide the travel expenses associated with Tasks 1 - 4 FOB: Destination

NET AMT

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE TERMS Supplies/services will be inspected/accepted at:
CLIN 0001 0002 0003 0004 0005 INSPECT AT N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A INSPECT BY N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A ACCEPT AT N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A ACCEPT BY Government Government Government Government Government

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 12 of 33

DELIVERY INFORMATION
CLIN 0001 0002 0003 0004 0005 DELIVERY DATE N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A QUANTITY N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A SHIP TO ADDRESS N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A UIC N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.204-7 52.212-1 52.212-4 252.204-7004 Alt A

Central Contractor Registration Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items Central Contractor Registration (52.204-7) Alternate A

APR 2008 JUN 2008 MAR 2009 SEP 2007

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.212-2

EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Price Technical Past Performance Corporate Experience (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of provision)

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 13 of 33 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2009) ALTERNATE I (APR 2002) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision: "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Clas ses (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 14 of 33 Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 15 of 33

"Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.) These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 16 of 33 (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, a women-owned business concern. (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: _____________________________________________ (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.) (i) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not an emerging small business. (ii) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or (B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Average Annual Number of Employees Gross Revenues ___ 50 or fewer ___ $1 million or less ___ 51 - 100 ___ $1,000,001 - $2 million ___ 101 - 250 ___ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million ___ 251 - 500 ___ $3,500,001 - $5 million ___ 501 - 750 ___ $5,000,001 - $10 million ___ 751 - 1,000 ___ $10,000,001 - $17 million ___ Over 1,000 ___ Over $17 million (9) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.) (i) General. The offeror represents that either--

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 17 of 33 (A) It ( ) is, ( ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ( ) has, ( )( has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ____________.) (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:____________.) Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (11) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(9) of this provision.) (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls): ____Black American. ____Hispanic American. ____Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246--

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 18 of 33 (1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and (ii) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has developed and has on file, ( ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ( ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domes tic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No.:--------------------------------------------------------Country of Origin:----------------------------------------------------(List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 19 of 33 origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. ---------------------------------------------------------[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements-- Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 20 of 33 (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and (2) ( ) Have, ( ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ballot] Have, [ballot] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 21 of 33

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) ( )(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ( ) (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 22 of 33 faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ( )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ( ) Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) or (k)(2) applies.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1)

( ) (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that-(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. ( ) (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that-(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies--

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 23 of 33 (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ( ) TIN: --------------------. ( ) TIN has been applied for. ( ) TIN is not required because: ( ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ( ) Sole proprietorship; ( ) Partnership; ( ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ( ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ( ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ( ) Foreign government; ( ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ( ) Other ----------.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 24 of 33

(5) Common parent. ( ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ( ) Name and TIN of common parent: Name --------------------. TIN --------------------. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874 (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR 9.108). (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a subsidiary of one. (End of provision)

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (SEP 2009) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (Contracting Officer check as appropriate.) ___ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006), with Alternate I (OCT 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (DEC 2008)(Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 25 of 33 ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) __(4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 1115). ___ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JUL 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (7) [Reserved]. ___ (8)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (JUNE 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 1995) of 52.219-6. ___ (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2004) of 52.219-6. ___ (9)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (JUNE 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2004) of 52.219-7. ___ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (MAY 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(2) and (3)). ___ (11)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (APR 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). ___ (ii) Alternate I (OCT 2001) of 52.219-9 ___ (iii) Alternate II (OCT 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (DEC 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (JAN 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (14)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (JUNE 2003) of 52.219-23.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 26 of 33 ___ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (APR 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (OCT 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (MAY 2004) (U.S.C. 657 f). _X__ (18) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (APR 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). _X__ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (JUNE 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X__ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (AUG 2009) (E.O. 13126). _X__ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999). _X__ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). ___ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of theVietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X__ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). ___ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). ___ (26) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (DEC 2004) (E.O. 13201). ___ (27) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (28)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (MAY 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 27 of 33 ___ (ii) Alternate I (MAY 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(c)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (29) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b) ___ (30)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). ___ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. ___ (31) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (JUNE 2003) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ___ (32)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (JUN 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). ___ (ii) Alternate I (JAN 2004) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (JAN 2004) of 52.225-3. ___ (33) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (AUG 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X__ (34) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (35) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (36) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (37) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (FEB 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)) ___ (38) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (OCT 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (39) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (40) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (MAY 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332) .

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 28 of 33 ___ (41) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (MAY 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (42) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (AUG 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (43)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ____ (ii) Alternate I (APR 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (Contracting Officer check as appropriate.) ____ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ____ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (MAY 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ____ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (SEP 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ____ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (SEP 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) ____ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ____ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ____ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).

____ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (SEP 2008)(31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 29 of 33 shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1)in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (DEC 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) Reserved. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (DEC 2004) (E.O. 13201). (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 30 of 33

(2) While not required, the contractor May include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)

52.252-1

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): www.gsa.gov/far (End of provision)

52.252-2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): www.gsa.gov/far

252.212-7001 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO DEFENSE ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2009) (a) The Contractor agrees to comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause which, if checked, is included in this contract by reference to implement a provision of law applicable to acquisitions of commercial items or components. ___ 52.203-3, Gratuities (APR 1984) (10 U.S.C. 2207). (b) The Contractor agrees to comply with any clause that is checked on the following list of Defense FAR Supplement clauses which, if checked, is included in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items or components. (1) ___252.203-7000, Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (JAN 2009) (Section 847 of Pub. L. 110-181). (2) ___ 252.205-7000, Provision of Information to Cooperative Agreement Holders (DEC 1991) (10 U.S.C. 2416).

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 31 of 33

(3) ___ 252.219-7003, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DoD Contracts) (APR 2007) (15 U.S.C. 637). (4) ___ 252.219-7004, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Test Program) (AUG 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637 note). (5) ___ 252.225-7001, Buy American Act and Balance of Payments Program (JAN 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, E.O. 10582). (6) ____ 252.225-7008, Restriction on Acquisition of Specialty Metals (JUL 2009) (10 U.S.C. 2533b). (7) ____ 252.225-7009, Restriction on Acquisition of Certain Articles Containing Specialty Metals (JUL 2009) (10 U.S.C. 2533b). (8) ____ 252.225-7012, Preference for Certain Domestic Commodities (DEC 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2533a). (9) ____ 252.225-7015, Restriction on Acquisition of Hand or Measuring Tools (JUN 2005) (10 U.S.C. 2533a). (10) ____ 252.225-7016, Restriction on Acquisition of Ball and Roller Bearings (MAR 2006) (Section 8065 of Public Law 107-117 and the same restriction in subsequent DoD appropriations acts). (11) ____ 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements (JUL 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501-2518 and 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). (12) ____ 252.225-7027, Restriction on Contingent Fees for Foreign Military Sales (APR 2003) (22 U.S.C. 2779). (13) ____ 252.225-7028, Exclusionary Policies and Practices of Foreign Governments (APR 2003) (22 U.S.C. 2755). (14)(i) ____ 252.225-7036, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Balance of Payments Program (JUL 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d and 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). (ii) _X__ Alternate I (JUL 2009) of 252.225-7036. (15) ____ 252.225-7038, Restriction on Acquisition of Air Circuit Breakers (JUN 2005) (10 U.S.C. 2534(a)(3)). (16) ____ 252.226-7001, Utilization of Indian Organizations, Indian-Owned Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns (SEP 2004) (Section 8021 of Public Law 107-248 and similar sections in subsequent DoD appropriations acts). (17) ____ 252.227-7015, Technical Data--Commercial Items (NOV 1995) (10 U.S.C. 2320). (18) ____ 252.227-7037, Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data (SEP 1999) (10 U.S.C. 2321). (19) ____ 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (MAR 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2227). (20) ____ 252.237-7019, Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees (SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Public Law 108-375). (21) ____ 252.243-7002, Requests for Equitable Adjustment (MAR 1998) (10 U.S.C. 2410). (22)____ 252.247-7003, Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (JUL 2009) (Section 884 of Public Law 110-417).

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 32 of 33 (23)(i) ____ 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (ii) ____ Alternate I (MAR 2000) of 252.247-7023. (iii) ____ Alternate II (MAR 2000) of 252.247-7023. (iv) ____ Alternate III (MAY 2002) of 252.247-7023. (24) ____ 252.247-7024, Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (c) In addition to the clauses listed in paragraph (e) of the Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items clause of this contract (FAR 52.212-5), the Contractor shall include the terms of the following clauses, if applicable, in subcontracts for commercial items or commercial components, awarded at any tier under this contract: (1) 252.237-7019, Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees (SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Public Law 108-375). (2) 252.247-7003, Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (JUL 2009) (Section 884 of Public Law 110-417). (3) 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (4) 252.247-7024, Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (End of clause)

252.225-7035 BUY AMERICAN ACT--FREE TRADE AGREEMENT --BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROGRAM CERTIFICATE (JAN 2009) (a) Definitions. Bahrainian end product, commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item, domestic end product, Free Trade Agreement country, Free Trade Agreement country end product, foreign end product, Moroccan end product, qualifying country end product, and United States have the meanings given in the Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Balance of Payments Program clause of this solicitation. (b) Evaluation. The Government-(1) Will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part 225 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement; and (2) For line items subject to Free Trade Agreements, will evaluate offers of qualifying country end products or Free Trade Agreement country end products other than Bahrainian end products or Moroccan end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act or the Balance of Payments Program. (c) Certifications and identification of country of origin. (1) For all line items subject to the Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Balance of Payments Program clause of this solicitation, the offeror certifies that-(i) Each end product, except the end products listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product; and

HU0001-10-T-0059 Page 33 of 33

(ii) Components of unknown origin are considered to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States or a qualifying country. (2) The offeror shall identify all end products that are not domestic end products. (i) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are qualifying country (except Australian or Canadian) end products: (Line Item Number) (Country of Origin) (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products other than Bahrainian end products or Moroccan end products: (Line Item Number) (Country of Origin) (iii) The following supplies are other foreign end products, including end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (ii) of the definition of ``domestic end product'': (Line Item Number)----------------------------------------------------(Country of Origin (If known))----------------------------------------(End of provision)

Past Performance Survey



______(Insert Company Name)_______ is submitting a proposal in response to solicitation HU0001-10-T-0059 for a Business Intelligence Tool required by required by the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU) located in Bethesda, Maryland.   With this requirement, the USU seeks a Business Intelligence Tool to enable user-driven data analysis and reporting on the USU research, administrative and academic data.  Your agency/business has been selected as a past performance reference.  Please take a moment to complete this past performance questionnaire using the numeric ratings described below to answer each question, you may provide additional information.  If you provide a rating other than 3 please explain why.  Once you have completed the questionnaire please e-mail a copy to .  You may be contacted by USU for additional information regarding ______(Insert Company Name)_______ past performance history.  If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact Jody Bester at 301.295.1914 or .  Thank you in advance for taking the time to complete this survey.



Agency/Business Name: ____________________________

Contract Number: ________________________________

Agency/Business POC:  ____________________________

Telephone Number/E-mail Address:  ________________________________

Your Role on in this Contract: ___________________________________



POC at ______(Insert Company Name)_____: (Name and Email-Completed by Offeror)



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES PROVIDED:

















Contractor provides knowledgeable, experienced, trained and qualified personnel.









Contractor complies with contract requirements.









Contractor is responsive to technical direction.









Contractor met contract delivery schedules/deadlines.









Contractor provided sufficient notification of contract problems to appropriate government personnel.









Contractor is pro-active and is reasonable/cooperative.









Would you recommend this contractor for award (Yes or No)?  Please explain.









Are you satisfied with the service you received and would you hire the contractor again (Yes or No)?  If not, why not?  Please be specific.









Do you feel the quality of the services received was worth the cost/price?  Please circle one of the statements below.



A).  Extremely well worth the cost.



B).  Well worth the cost.



C).  Worth the cost.



D).  Cost was more than the value received.



E).  Cost was greatly in excess of value received.



F).  Government derived no value from cost spent.

















Rating

Definition

5

Vendor has greatly exceeded the Government’s expectation and has provided service in excess of the requirement.

4

Vendor has exceeded the Government’s expectation. 

3

Vendor has met the Government’s expectation.

2

Vendor has met the Government’s expectation, with minimal problems.

1

Vendor has not met the Government’s expectation. 

N/A

Neutral/Unknown ConfidenceUniformed Services University
of the

Health Sciences
http://www.usuhs.mil/

4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814 Telephone (toll free): 1-800-515-5257

Fingertip Facts
Uniformed Services University (USU)
President: Charles L. Rice, M.D

Total Graduates
Uniformed Services Physicians: 4,387 School of Medicine Graduate Programs: 1,124 Graduate Nursing Programs: 471

Established by Congress in 1972, matriculating in 1976 and graduating its first class in 1980, the university has a worldwide reputation as a center of excellence for military and public health professions education and research. Our programs are unique, related directly to force health protection, tropical diseases, disaster medicine, military and public health medical readiness and adaptation to extreme environments. USU prepares outstanding scientists and health care practitioners for careers in service to the nation. School of Medicine and Graduate School of Nursing The F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine has a year-round, four-year curriculum that is nearly 700 hours longer than found at other U.S. medical schools. These extra hours focus on epidemiology, health promotion, disease prevention, tropical medicine, leadership and field exercises, and other subjects that relate to the unique requirements of career-oriented military and public health physicians. Of the 4,384 physician alumni, more than 75 percent currently serve on active duty in the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and U.S. Public Health Service. Doctoral and masters degrees in the biomedical sciences and public health are awarded by interdisciplinary and department-based graduate programs within the School of Medicine. Program strengths include infectious disease, neuroscience, and preventive medicine research. A large number of graduates are military officers who serve the federal biomedical research enterprise. The Graduate School of Nursing offers a Master of Science in Nursing degree in Nurse Anesthesia, Family Nurse Practitioner, Perioperative Clinical Nursing, Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner, and a full and part-time program for a Ph.D. degree in Nursing Science. The university's continuing education program is unique and extensive, serving and sustaining the professional and readiness requirements of the Defense Department's worldwide military health care community through on-site and distance education. Research The university's nationally ranked military and civilian faculty conduct cutting edge research in the biomedical sciences and in areas specific to the DOD health care mission such as combat casualty care, infectious diseases and radiation biology. The university is committed to technology transfer to ensure that the results of research are made widely available and currently holds more than 289 patents or pending patents. The Uniqueness of Military Medicine The university specializes in military and public health medicine which is more than practicing medicine in the military or Public Health Service, and differs significantly from civilian medicine. Military/Public Health medicine focuses on keeping the people healthy and especially in the military, involves disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment by medical personnel who are integral to the operations they support. Military physicians must understand and treat syndromes and injuries that are often rare or unknown among nonmilitary populations. Military medicine requires a solid background in tropical medicine and hygiene, parasitology, epidemiologic methods and preventive medicine. Knowledge in areas of military medical intelligence, the psychological stresses of combat and trauma, and the medical effects of extreme environments whether in tropical or desert conditions, aerospace or undersea, is essential to properly advising a military commander on how to best keep troops fit. For those in the Public Health Service, medical practice relies on much of the same expertise. In addition, the Public Health Service is growing in its capacity to provide health interventions during and following natural disasters and benefits from the same training and knowledge base as the other uniformed services. Simply put, the focus is practicing "good medicine in bad places." "Learning to care for those in harm's way."

Operation & Maintenance Budget
$97 million

Staff: 665 (509 civilian; 156 military) Faculty: 329 on-campus (208 civilian; 121 military)
3999 off-campus (including Teaching Fellows)

F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine
Dean: Larry W. Laughlin, M.D., Ph.D. CAPT, MC, USN (Ret.) Enrollment: 681 Each class averages 165 students from nearly all 50 states, and about 50 percent enter with prior military service, including those from the three military academies. Degree Conferred: Doctor of Medicine

Graduate Education
Associate Dean: Eleanor S. Metcalf, Ph.D.

Enrollment: 177
Degrees Conferred: Doctor of Philosophy - 325 Doctor of Public Health - 21 Master of Science - 109 Master of Public Health - 598 Master of Tropical Medicine & Hygiene - 38 Master of Military Medical History - 4 Master of Science in Public Health - 30 Master of Comparative Medicine - 3

Graduate School of Nursing
Dean: Ada Sue Hinshaw, Ph.D., R.N., FAAN

Enrollment: 161
Degrees Conferred: Master of Science in Nursing - 471 - CRNA - 225 - FNP - 203 - PCNS - 43 - PMHNP - 0 (First Class Graduates in 2010) Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing Science - 10

Graduate Medical Education
National Capital Consortium Total Trainees Enrolled: 720

Research
Vice President: Steven G. Kaminsky, Ph.D. Current Projects: 382 Total Research Funding: $114.7 million

Continuing Education
for Health Care Professionals Senior Executive Director: CAPT Jaime Luke, NC, USN During FY 2008, USU held 1,914 activities in accredited continuing education for health care professionals.
Produced by USU Office of External Affairs Telephone: 301-295-1219; FAX 301-295-3757 Current as of: July 2009

