
                                                               General Information:


Document Type:         Combined Synopsis/Solicitation


Solicitation Number:         F3BTS23210AC01


Posted Date:                 23 August 2013


Response Date:         9 September 2013/12:00PM EST or 5:00PM GMT


Classification Code:   58-Audio Video Equipment


Set Aside:             N/A

NAICS Code: 334310 -- Audio Video Equipment Manufacturing




                                                            Contracting Office Address


Department of the Air Force,
United States Air Force Europe.
48 CONS/LGCA
Unit 5070 Box 270
RAF Lakenheath, UK, 09461-0270.


Description





COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION – Video Teleconferencing (VTC) System




     I. This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented
        with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and
        a written solicitation will not be issued.

    II. This solicitation, RFQ Ref. # F3BTS23210AC01 is issued as a request for quotation.


   III. This solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-69 dated
        01 August 2013 and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation DPN 20130808 effective 08 August 2013.


    IV. Due to the overseas location of this solicitation, no set-aside will be used. The NAICS code associated with this requirement is 335911 –
        Audio Video Equipment Manufacturing


     V. This combined synopsis/solicitation is for the following commodities:



















|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES                    |QUANTITY               |UNIT                                       |UNIT PRICE                      |   |
|0001           |                                     |4                      |Each                                       |       ______________           |   |
|               |Video Telephone Conference System                                                                     |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|NET AMT CLIN 0001                                                                                                     |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                              |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|TOTAL ALL CLINS _________________                                                                                                                             |



    VI. Description of requirements:


See attached SOW.

   VII. FOB Destination
In country delivery address
321 STS/DOS
Unit 4714
RAF Mildenhall,
APO AE 09459
Attn: TSgt. Vanessa Ruiz

  VIII. FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (Feb 2012), and its addenda as it applies to this acquisition. 


    IX. FAR 52.212-2, Evaluation -- Commercial Items (Jan 1999) does apply to this acquisition. The Government will award a contract resulting
        from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government,
        price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: (i) technical capability of the item offered
        to meet the Government requirement; (ii) price.


     X. Offerors should include with their offers a completed copy of the provision at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications –
        Commercial Items (Dec 2012).


    XI. FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (Feb 2012), applies to this acquisition.


   XII. FAR 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes Or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items (Jan 2013)
        (Deviation).

  XIII. FAR 52.204-7 -- System for Award Management.

   XIV. FAR 52.204-13 – System for Award Management Maintenance


    XV. FAR 52.232-18 -- Availability of Funds. Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government’s obligation under this
        contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal
        liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this
        contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.


   XVI. No additional requirements or terms and conditions apply to this acquisition.


  XVII. Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) assigned rating is: none.


 XVIII. Quotes are required to be received no later than 12:00 pm CDT, Central Daylight Time or 05:00 pm BST, British Summer Time, on Friday,
        September 9, 2013 and must include the following: Company name; address; phone numbers; itemized quote; technical specifications. All
        quotes should remain valid until 1 October 2013. Quotes should be emailed to shauna.howard.1@us.af.mil
   XIX. If any interested parties wish to attend a site visit one can be arranged for 10.00 am Tuesday 3 September 2013. All parties must
        coordinate with the 48 CONS office by Wednesday 28 August 2013 by 4.00pm.


    XX. Please direct any questions regarding this solicitation to:
        Shauna Howard, Contract Specialist, Phone (011) (44) 1638 522394, Email  shauna.howard.1@us.af.mil






Statement of Work (SOW)

For

352 SOG/CC Secure/Non-secure VTC

Building 550 Commander Conference Room 103

RAF Mildenhall





Introduction and General Requirements

The objective of this SOW is for a contractor to Engineer, Furnish, Install, and Test (EFI&T) a fully functional Secure Basic Rate Interface (BRI) Integrated Internet Protocol (IP) Video Teleconferencing (VTC) System. 

System shall fully integrate with MAJCOM VTC scheduling and management system 



Specific Task and Requirements: Conference Room VTC:

Capabilities Conference Room VTC:  The VTC System is required to provide the user with the following capabilities:

Screen Display

Preference for VTC System should include dual screen capability with screens sizes between 65 inches and 80 inches.

Capability to use one screen for display of VTC video (both local and remote VTC participants) and one screen for display of presentation slides using GFE Computer.  

Capability to use one screen to display local VTC participants, and the other screen to view remote VTC participants.

Capability to display presentation slides from remote VTC participants.

Capability to display presentation slides at remote VTC participant locations.   



Control System

System should include a user friendly and intuitive Touch-Panel Control System. 

Control system should provide capability to control all functions of the VTC system including but not limited to Dialing, Routing, Screen Display configurations changes, and Volume/Mute control.

A separate mute button shall be provided for the head chair.

 A hand held remote controller shall also be provided with the same functions as the Touch Panel.



Audio

Capability to adequately hear remote VTC participants from any location in room.  VTC shall include all required speakers and microphones.

Capability for remote VTC participants to adequately hear speaking personnel seated at conference room table and seated around room perimeter. 

Capability to eliminate echo

Capability to filter out ambient noise and other noise which fall below an appropriate threshold.



Physical/Space Requirements

Total Room Dimensions: 38-feet Length, 20-feet Width, 8-feet Ceiling Height.

The room is capable of holding an approximate total of fifty (50) VTC participants.  Fifteen (15) participants seated at conference room table. 



Additional Requirements

 Any equipment, furniture or equipment racks should be aesthetically pleasing and should match current room decor.   Appropriate power conditioners shall be installed to protect against surges in electrical system.

 The equipment, software, and features/functions must comply with all Air Force and DoD Information Assurance (IA) rules and regulations.  The system shall have a valid ATO/ATC.

 System must support IP (H.323) protocol and be capable of Video Teleconferencing with multiple geographically separated units. See 2.1.5.6 below.

 System must fully integrate with MAJCOM VTC Scheduling and management 

System shall be capable of teleconferencing with multiple sites via IP interface to a GFE VTC hub. (Number of simultaneous sites to be provided during contractor walk through) 

 As an option, the contractor shall propose a illuminating MUTE sign to be mounted near the screens and in plain view of all participants.

 



Requirements:

User Selection Criteria:

The Government seeks commercial quality equipment and integration designed and installed by a professional VTC System provider.  Offers will be evaluated through a best value determination considering the proposed technical solution and cost.

In addition, a narrative describing the proposed solution and description of equipment recommended (including all model numbers, pricing, specifications of equipment, and required certifications) shall be provided with this proposal for evaluation.  Handouts with color examples of the proposed system shall also be provided with pictures.  



Site Survey: 
Contractors may request a site survey at RAF Mildenhall as required to develop proposals.  Any site surveys are at the contractor’s expense and shall be coordinated with the listed points of contacts 5 days prior to the site visit.  



Installation:

Site Coordination:

The contractor shall meet with the base safety officer immediately upon arrival on site for review of the specific safety requirements prior to installation.



Installation Plan Changes:

If a problem develops during installation that warrants the change of the proposed solution, the contractor shall engineer and implement design changes only after Government approval.



Period of Performance/Place of Performance Maintenance:

The period of performance is a base period of 120 days including installation, training, testing and acceptance.  Upon completion of installation, training and testing activities, the contractor shall provide continual Operations and Maintenance (O&M) support of the VTC System for the remainder of the one year base performance period.  The Contractor shall price out as executable options years for an additional three years of O&M services.  The Government reserves the right to exercise these additional option years for continued O&M support.  



As a part of O&M support, the Contractor shall provide help desk support and information associated with that support to include phone numbers, effective times for support, etc.  



Response to Outages: 

The Contractor shall have an O&M individual available to be reached at the help desk number by base personnel to report service outages.  The O&M individual shall respond via phone to the outage service call within 24 hours.  The O&M individual shall help base personnel troubleshoot the reason for the outage and determine if a malfunction is in the contractor-maintained system/equipment.



 If the contractor determines the malfunction is not in the contractor-maintained system/equipment, the contractor shall immediately notify the Base.  The Contractor shall be responsible for the cost of service calls of outside VTC vendors when a system/equipment malfunction is later determined to be in the contractor-maintained system/equipment.



If the contractor determines the malfunction is in the contractor-maintained system/equipment, the Contractor shall determine the scope of the problem, advise base personnel, and provide an estimated restoration time within twenty-four hours of being notified of an outage/degradation.



Restore Service Outages:

The Contractor shall restore service within seventy-two hours from the time the contractor advises the base personnel of the scope of the problem.



Exceptions to time limits may be allowed with written approval from base personnel.  A signed e-mail is sufficient in lieu of written approval. 



The contractor shall be onsite no later than eight hours after formal notification of outage or malfunction.



The Contractor shall be responsible for any required monitoring equipment, communications devices, software, parts, and materials to meet outage response requirements. 



Turn-Key Operation and Testing:

The Contractor shall Engineer, Furnish, Install, and Test (EFI&T) and performs all necessary efforts to ensure successful completion of this project and make operational the equipment in the prescribed location.  The Contractor shall provide all hardware and software necessary to support this requirement.  The Contractor shall submit industry standard and site specific test and acceptance procedures for Government review and approval.  The contractor shall perform approved test to obtain system acceptance.  The contractor shall complete all installation and testing activities within 120 calendar days of award.  



Hardware and Software:

The Contractor shall provide all hardware, software and test equipment necessary to support this requirement.  All hardware/software provided shall be new and include a twelve month (one-year) warranty.  



Warranty:

The contractor shall propose a three-year warranty option to be provided at the end date of the obligatory warranty period. This warranty extension shall cover all new equipment and all installation related to cabling and physical workmanship.  The Contractor shall provide an option for recurring comprehensive maintenance contract (sustainment) to provide telephone technical support, software upgrades, parts repair/replacement, and field engineer support as required. 



Configuration Management:

The Contractor shall perform configuration management of all equipment associated with the VTC system.  The Contractor shall provide configuration management information to the base SCX project manager.  The configuration management information shall include, but not be limited to, a list of all components installed by system serial number (hardware), all passwords and if applicable software/IOS.



Training:

Upon completion of the installation process, the Contractor will provide User Training to the designated Site Staff in accordance with the customer requirements.  A minimum of four, 2-hour training sessions are required.  User Training will include step-by-step instructions on the utilization of all features of the VTC system as well as Basic System Troubleshooting.  The Contractor shall provide operational training to the users and system training to the Operators/Maintainers as needed.  Instructional sessions shall be permitted to be videotaped for future training purposes.  Any applicable training material will be provided to the Government in both hard and soft copy.  The Government shall retain the right to duplicate and distribute the training material for future training purposes.   



Additional Requirements:

Project Management:

The Contractor shall provide a schedule for Government review and approval within one week of award.  The Contractor shall plan and manage daily operations and activities associated with providing this requirement to ensure the necessary processes and activities are performed to provide an effective and acceptable system.  The contractor shall employ effective management tools and methods to assure control of cost, schedule and performance.  As needed, the contractor shall conduct, support, or participate in program management and technical reviews, meeting, and conferences to ensure effective and efficient project execution.  The 100th Communication Squadron shall be responsible for storage, staging and deployment of any equipment and materials provided as part of this project unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the Government and the Contractor.  The Government retains the right to all documentation and data generated by the Contractor as a result of this project.  The Contractor shall provide COTS products with the appropriate licenses.  The Government contracting officer shall have final authority for resolution of any contradictions within the proposal.  



Security:

The Contractor must coordinate with appropriate base personnel and comply with all required security measures for gaining entry and working in all buildings. The Contractor may require Government escorts with proper building entry authorization and identification while in all buildings.  Some areas in those buildings may require prior coordination through base personnel in specified work areas before entering and work can be accomplished. 



ID Card/Key Control/Combinations:

The Contractor shall establish and implement methods of assuring control and safeguard of all Government keys or lock combinations issued to the Contractor. GOVERNMENT KEYS SHALL NOT BE DUPLICATED. See FAR 52.245-2(e) (2). 



Base Passes/Contractor Badge:

The Contractor shall acquire all necessary base passes for Contractor personnel. The Contractor is required to provide identification badges to their employees. All Contractor personnel will wear these badges while on duty on the Government site. Badges are required to identify the individual, company name, and be clearly and distinctly marked as Contractor. Size, color, style, etc, are to be mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and Government. 





Others:

Documentation:

The Contractor shall provide all documents to the Government for review and approval prior to system installation.  The Contractor will provide the Government with all documentation compiled during the course of the project.  The documentation will be delivered by the Contractor in both hard copy and soft copy formats (on a Data CD).  This documentation will include but not limited to the following:  

Project Management Information

Project Planning Materials

Services Change Orders

Hardware Change Orders

Out of Scope Work Hours

Product Inventory

Serial Numbers

Test and Acceptance Documentation

As-Built Documentation



Manuals and Practices:

The Contractor shall provide at least one paper copy and one soft copy of the latest version of operation, installation, and maintenance manuals and practices/users guide for each system installed.  



Commercial Deliverables and Documentation:

The Contractor shall provide standard commercial deliverables and documentations.  Documentation shall be provided in Microsoft Word or PDF format unless specified otherwise below or agreed upon by the Government Contracting Officer and the Contractor before installation.



Installation Schedules and Progress Report:

The Contractor shall provide an installation schedule and monthly progress reports.  



System Installation Plan:

The Contractor shall provide a System Installation Plan which shall include the following:

Detailed equipment room layout drawing plans showing all existing and new proposed equipment, optional equipment, batteries, power connection, power outlets, lighting and any other equipment. 

A complete list of personnel contacted on site and those individuals participating in the survey.  The list shall include telephone numbers, office symbols, and e-mail addresses.

Provide information on number of and type of equipment to be provided.  Listing shall be an overall quantity.

The contractor shall identify any and all modifications or changes that must be performed at the site by the base prior to the start of the installation.  Although the performance of the work itself is the responsibility of the base, there must be concise and clearly understood information describing what and where site preparations must be accomplished, i.e. support items for the VTC system installation such as AC Power, DC Power, Climate Control (Heat and Air), Fire Detection/Suppression, etc.  



Communications-Electronics Facilities Records:

The contractor shall provide all drawings electronically in Microstation Version 8 DGN or Autocad 2000 DWG format.    A complete system diagram shall be included to reflect all wiring, connections, and settings.



Installation Test Plan:

The Contractor shall provide a test plan as to how the system will be tested to demonstrate to the Government that the system is fully operational and meets or exceeds the specified requirements and that the system is fully ready to be placed into service.  The Contractor shall test the system to demonstrate to the Government quality assurance evaluation of the system.  These tests shall be accomplished prior to the system being placed into service.



Installation Test Report:

The Contractor shall provide an installation test report of the results of the testing accomplished under the installation test plan.



Acceptance Test Plan:

The Contractor shall provide an acceptance test plan as to how the system will be tested to demonstrate to the Government that the system is fully operational and meets or exceeds the specified requirements.  These tests shall be accomplished after the system is placed in service and prior to system acceptance.  The Contractor shall perform the acceptance test in the presence of the Government.  



Acceptance Test Report:

The Contractor shall provide an acceptance test report of the results of the testing accomplished under the acceptance test plan. Upon completion of acceptance test and receipt by the customer, the Government will document project acceptance on a DD Form 250 or Air Force Form 1261, whichever is applicable. 



Following-on Support: 

Upon completion of installation, training and testing activities, the contractor shall provide continual onsite engineering support for an additional five days to resolve any additional problems with the installed system.









Points of Contact

SSgt Juan Vasquez Perez

UNIT 4955 Box 340

RAF Mildenhall, England

APO AE 09459-6346

DSN 314-238-2852

Commercial: 44+1638-542852





