
























































SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

Schedule




DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK

Scope

All Information Technology services and supplies in support of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) both within the United States and abroad.

Objectives

Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is seeking to establish Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA) with multiple information technology vendors. 

The intent is to establish multiple BPA between qualified vendors and MCC allowing MCC to contract simply and quickly with vendors to provide supplies and services within scope through the use of call orders.

This solicitation allows any and all firms interested to submit their proposals to MCC describing how their firm is capable and qualified to provide supplies and services to MCC.  

The BPA, in and of itself, does not directly or automatically provide funding to the qualified vendors.

MCC intends to utilize all available contracting vehicles to fulfill its continuing IT requirements and to further competition.   

MCC expects to make multiple awards resulting from this synopsis/solicitation; however, there is no guarantee of any call orders. 

Vendors are not required to have a General Services Administration (GSA) contract in order to submit a proposal in response to this solicitation.

Each call order under a BPA is restricted to the simplified acquisition threshold unless the BPA is established with a GSA Federal Supply Schedule contractor. 

All responsible sources may submit a capabilities statement which will be considered by MCC.  

Teaming is allowed and MCC encourages teaming with other small businesses. 

All BPA orders are generally competed among the BPA holders using simplified acquisition procedures.

MCC reserves the right to limit competition for individual requirements to selected BPA holders, i.e., HUBZone or Service Disabled Veteran-owned businesses, to accomplish its socio-economic goals.  

MCC's authorizing statute provides the Corporation with additional procurement flexibilities.

MCC “may make and perform such contracts, grants, and other agreements with any person or government however designated and wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Corporation”.

The vendors shall supply qualified personnel and other services necessary to perform tasks including but not limited to:

Management and administrative functions

Management consulting 

Business operations 

Systems and software analysis and development 

Document analysis 

Development of systems design documents 

Computer programming 

Computer center operations 

Configuration management 

Software maintenance, testing, and troubleshooting 

Computer security 

Technical writing 

Training

Word processing 

Help desk support

Desktop support

Voice system support

SharePoint support

Video conferencing support

Web site development and support

Data modeling

DBA support

Business process mapping support

Business analyst support

IT strategic planning

Records management support

Background

The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is an innovative and independent U.S. foreign aid agency that is helping lead the fight against global poverty.

Created by the U.S. Congress in January 2004 with strong bipartisan support, MCC is changing the conversation on how best to deliver smart U.S. foreign assistance by focusing on good policies, country ownership, and results.

MCC is managed by a chief executive officer, who is part of the nine-member Board of Directors. The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the U.S. Trade Representative, and the USAID Administrator serve on the board along with four private sector representatives.  Additional information can be found at www.MCC.gov

Size

MCC by government standards is an extremely tiny organization.  MCC is authorized by statute, not to exceed 300 full-time employees.  MCC has in its authorizing statute authority to contract with personal services consultants.

The combination of full-time employees, personal services consultants and vendors hired to assist MCC carrying out its mission equals approximately 450 personnel located throughout the world.

Procurements are divided into two categories.  

One is for the developed compacts (MCA), which are Countries with signed Compacts solicit, award, and administer procurements for goods, works and services based on the programs designed in their Compact. 

These procurements are awarded and administered by the country through an “accountable entity” (also known as an “MCA Entity”) the organization established by the country to manage the programs identified in their Compact. 

MCC is not a party to these contracts.

The second category is for activities governed by MCC, for which this solicitation is intended.  

The Millennium Challenge Corporation Headquarters awards contracts to complete its mission of helping the world’s poorest countries reduce poverty through economic growth. 

These contracts provide opportunities to work directly with MCC.

Tasks

Tasks will be assigned per call orders.




Documents

The Offeror must submit a document outlining the company’s capabilities. 

The format is attached in the Excel spreadsheet, along with an example.

Offerors need not be capable of performing every requirement under the BPA.

Vendors shall submit in addition to the capabilities statement and the executive summary detailing how they can meet MCC's needs and their specialties.

Offerors shall also identify their experience in dealing with very small corporations, to include their logistics such as contract administration, ability to travel, flexibility, and innovativeness.

Vendor shall also submit past performance information in the format identified in the spreadsheet.

The spreadsheet also has a tab labeled "rates".  Vendors shall submit fully loaded rates for any and all labor categories the vendor believes they can provide services to MCC.

Rates shall be submitted for all five years covering the BPA.

Rates shall coincide with the calendar year and only change on January 1 of every year.

PACKAGING AND MARKING

[RESERVED]



INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

[RESERVED]






DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

Per Call Order

Period of Performance

Each BPA will have a period of performance of 5 years.  

Place of Performance

Washington metropolitan region and abroad.  

See www.mcc.gov for current and potential future locations abroad.





CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

[RESERVED]




SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

MCC 52.201-70	Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and/or Project Monitor (PM) (Nov 2011)

(a) The Contracting Officer may designate a Government representative to act as the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or Project Monitor (PM) to perform functions under the contract such as review and/or inspection and acceptance of supplies, services, including construction, and other functions of a technical nature. The Contracting Officer will provide a written notice of such designation to the COR and/or PM and the Contractor.  The designation letters will set forth the authorities and limitations of the COR and/or PM under the contract. 

(b) Modifications to this contract are effective only if reduced to writing and executed by the Contracting Officer.  The Contractor is specifically prohibited from performing any work that is outside the scope of this contract without the approval of the Contracting Officer.  The Contracting Officer cannot authorize the COR or any other representative to sign documents (i.e., contracts, contract modifications, etc.) that require the signature of the Contracting Officer.

MCC 52.204-71 Security Requirements for Contractor Personnel (MAR 2006)

Contractor employees and/or subcontractor personnel, while on MCC premises, shall be subject to and abide by all safety and security regulations of the MCC and shall be required to meet the same personnel security background requirements as MCC employees as outlined in MCC policies and procedures.  

A.  Contractor Personnel Facility Access Requirements (including offsite MCC Net access)

Contractor personnel hired to work under contracts awarded by Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) and require access to MCC Headquarters, MCC Net, Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU), Foreign Government Information (FGI) or other MCC-Sensitive information must be U.S. citizens or have permanent resident status.  Contractor personnel will undergo screening (background investigation) for this access.  The screening will determine the individual’s suitability and fitness for work under MCC contracts.   The background investigation will consist of a National Agency Checks with Law and Credit (NACLC) for public trust positions.  Permanent Residents must have been in the country for a sufficient amount of time for the investigation results to be meaningful, usually five (5) but a minimum of two (2) years.

Contractor is required to have all effected personnel execute appropriate security forms (SF 85P, Fingerprint Charts, Releases) and submit to MCC’s Security Office before access to the facility or MCCNet is approved.  Contractor personnel may work under the contract while the background investigation is being conducted.  MCC Security Office will provide the necessary forms to the contractor.  (Also see “Contract Award” below.)

Contractor personnel for whom unfavorable or derogatory information has been developed during the background investigation process will be presented to the person by MCC’s Security Office and offered an opportunity to refute, explain, clarify or mitigate the information in question.  If an ineligibility determination is made by MCC’s Security Office, the individual will be ineligible to further render services under the contract and access to the facility and/or MCC Net will be immediately terminated.  




The ineligibility decision will be communicated by the MCC Security Office through the contracting officer and COR to the contractor.   The specific reasons for the ineligibility determination will be made available only to the effected individual directly by the MCC’s Security Office.

MCC will honor a previous investigation meeting or exceeding the MCC required investigation standard (NACLC) that was completed within the previous two years.  Contractor personnel may be required to submit updated security forms.

B.  Contract Employees Not Requiring Facility, MCC Net, or Sensitive Information Access

Contractor personnel hired to work under contracts awarded by Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) and do not require access to MCC Headquarters, are preferred to be U.S. citizens or have permanent resident status.  Employment of any foreign national working within the United States must have been lawfully admitted into the United States in accordance with immigration laws with eligibility to work within the United States.  Employment of foreign national by MCC outside of the United States is subject to applicable security and legal requirements established by the Chief of Mission, United States Department of State, and United States Department of Treasury. 

The contractor must provide to MCC’s Security Office the full name, date of birth, place of birth, social security number (except for foreign contractors not issued a number) and home address.  MCC may use this information to screen contractor personnel through various government databases to determine their suitability and fitness for work under MCC contracts.  Additional forms and background information may be requested to verify their suitability.  Contractor personnel may work under the contract while the background investigation is being conducted.  

Contractor personnel on whom unfavorable, derogatory or questionable information has been developed will be given an opportunity to refute, explain, clarify or mitigate the information with MCC’s Security Office.  If an ineligibility determination is made by MCC’s Security Office, the individual will be ineligible to further render services under the contract.  

The ineligibility decision will be communicated by the MCC Security Office through the contracting officer and COR to the contractor.   The specific reasons for the ineligibility determination will be made available only to the effected individual directly by the MCC’s Security Office.

C.  Contractor Personnel Security Clearance Requirements

The number of contractors cleared for access to classified information will be kept to a minimum, based on operational needs requiring the individual to access classified information or systems.  The level of access approved will relate directly to the level of classified information the individual has a need to access.

1.  Personal Service Contractors and Independent Contractors.  MCC is responsible for security clearance actions associated with individuals who are directly compensated by MCC.  MCC will request investigations and grant as appropriate, security clearances for Personal Service Contractors and independent contractor (including purchase orders) with individuals where MCC makes payment directly to the individual.   The level of investigation and clearance granted will be based on the duties performed as compared with the position of an MCC employee in a similar position.  The Contractor is required to execute appropriate security forms (SF 86, Fingerprint Charts, Releases) and submit to MCC’s Security Office before access to the facility or MCCNet is approved.  Contractor may work under the contract while the background investigation is being conducted.  MCC Security Office will provide the necessary forms to the contractor and process the background investigation and approve the clearance.  

2.  Secure Contract Classification.  Classified contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements with organizations must comply with the National Industrial Security Program (NISP).  Under the provisions of NISP, the Defense Security Service (DSS) will investigate and adjudicate security clearances required for contractor employees to have access to classified information.  Organizations (contractors and recipients) and their employees not currently participating in the National Security Industrial Program (NISP) and wishing to conduct classified business with MCC must be sponsored by MCC, another agency, or by company that has been previously cleared.  Once the secure contract is awarded, MCC Contracting Officer, in consultation with MCC’s Security Office, will be responsible for completing the Department of Defense Contract Security Classification Specification, DD Form 254.

D.  Exceptions to Investigations Requirements

Contractors are exempt from investigative requirements when working in temporary low risk positions that are intermittent and when not working on an MCC contract in excess of 180 days in either a single assignment or a series of assignments.  Low risk positions involve duties and responsibilities of limited impact on an agency or program mission, with potential for limited impact on the efficiency of the service.  Persons occupying these positions will not have unescorted access to the Department of State or its Embassies, Sensitive But Unclassified, Foreign Government Information, MCC-Sensitive information, or require logon access to MCC’s computer information network

E.  Issuing MCC Access Badges

MCC Access Badges are issued by the Security Office to new employees, and personal service contractors and other contractors with permanent duty station assignment at MCC Headquarters.  Requirements before being issued a badge include submission of required security forms for processing a security clearance or facility access, and mandatory attendance at an MCC security briefing.  Security briefings are scheduled on the first business day of the pay period and alternate weeks as determined by MCC’s Human Resources, and are generally held from 8:45 to 10:00 am.  MCC Visitor Badges (escort not required) are temporarily assigned by the Security Office immediately after these requirements are met, pending processing of MCC Photo-Identification Badges.

Contractors with the appropriate level background investigation and who are United States citizens may be eligible for 24/7 access to MCC headquarters.  Foreign national with the appropriate level background investigation and issuance of an MCC Access Badge, will only be provided unescorted access during regular business hours (Monday through Friday, 7:30 am to 6:30 pm, excluding holidays and other MCC closings).

Contractor employees who have not submitted the required security forms and attended the MCC security briefing will not be issued MCC Access Badges and their access to MCC headquarters will require them to have an appointment and be escorted at all times while in MCC headquarters. 




F.  Work Performance

The contractor shall prescreen all personnel covered under this clause to ensure they initially possess the necessary security requirements.  In addition, the contractor is responsible to periodically, however, at least annually, review personnel security requirements to assure the individual statuses have not changed.

Unless otherwise provided herein, in no event will the need to obtain clearances (including access) from the MCC Security Office be considered an excusable delay under the contract.  In addition, the need to replace personnel determined by the MCC Security Office to be ineligible will not be considered an excusable delay.  

Failure to comply with the contractor personnel security requirements may result in termination of the contract for default.

G.  Contract Award

Within two (2) business days after notice of award from the contracting officer, contractor shall provide a listing of all personnel (and subcontractor personnel) working under the contract (unless otherwise stated in the contract) including the information and documentation required herein.  This requirement does not include clerical or administrative support staff (unless otherwise stated in the contract).  

The listing shall include individual’s full name, date of birth, place of birth, social security number (except for foreign contractors not issued a number) and home address.  This listing shall state whether or not the individual will need a security clearance, MCC facility access, access to non-classified sensitive information, MCC Net access, or no access privileges.  In addition, the contractor shall provide a central point-of-contact regarding personnel security issues.  The contracting officer will send a copy of the listing and point-of-contact to the MCC Security Office.  It is the MCC Security Office’s responsibility to furnish the necessary form and initiate appropriate security action with the contractor’s point-of-contact.  Once the forms have been provided to the contractor and/or employee, it is the contractor’s responsibility to assure that all requested information is submitted within ten (10) business days.

(End of clause)




MCC 52.232-70 Invoice Instructions (FEB 2008)

Invoices shall be paid in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act, thirty days (30) following receipt of a proper invoice.  The Contractor shall submit each invoice electronically via email or fax to the following:

Fax:  303.969.5151/7281   ATTN: MCC Payments, or

Email:  , or

As an alternative to electronic submission of invoices, one copy of each invoice may be submitted to the following address:

National Business Center

M/S D-2773

7301 West Mansfield Avenue

Lakewood, CO 80235-2230

If it is determined that the amount billed is incorrect, the invoice may be revised by the Government, or the contractor may be required to submit a revised invoice. 

To constitute a proper invoice, each invoice must include the following information and/or attached documentation:

(1)  Name, address and telephone of the Contractor;

(2)  Date of invoice and invoice number;

(3)  Contract number (including task order or call number and contract line item(s)) also modification number, if applicable; 

(4)  Description (quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price) of the supplies/services rendered (including hours incurred and billing rate, as applicable to the contract); 

(5)  A schedule depicting the following information:

If the contractor is billing for costs incurred over more than a single month, the costs for each month in which the costs were incurred and shall be segregated into the month they were actually incurred.

(6)  Name of Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR); and 

(7)  Signature of authorized representative of the firm with the following invoice certification:

“The undersigned hereby certifies to the best of my knowledge and belief that: the sum claimed under this contract is proper and due, and all the costs of contract performance have been paid, or to the extent allowed under the applicable payment clause, will be paid by the Contractor when due in the ordinary course of business; the work reflected by these costs has been performed, and amounts involved are consistent with the requirements of this Contract.

BY:  ______________________________________

TITLE:  ___________________________________

DATE:	___________________________________ 

Inquires regarding the status of invoices may be directed to NBC Accounting. The email address is:  

(End of clause)

MCC 52.232-72	Limitation of Funds – Incrementally Funded Contracts (NOV 2006)

(a) Of the total price in Section B (or the “Prices” section), only the amount stated on the contract award document or subsequent modifications is now available for payment and obligated under this contract. It is anticipated that from time to time, additional funds will be obligated under the contract until the total price of the contract is obligated.

(b)  The Government is not obligated to pay or reimburse the contractor more than the amount obligated pursuant to this clause. The contractor agrees to perform the contract up to the point at which the total amount paid and payable by the Government (including amounts payable for subcontracts and settlement costs if this contract is terminated for convenience) approximates but does not exceed the total amount obligated.

(c)(1)  If the contractor considers the funds obligated under this contract to be insufficient to cover the work to be performed until the date specified in Section B, or another date agreed to by the parties, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing and indicate the date on which it expects expended funds to approximate 75 percent of the total amount obligated. The notice shall state the estimated amount of additional funds required to continue performance through the date for which incremental funds is provided. (2)  If, after notification is provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, additional funds are not obligated, or an earlier date than the date in Section B of this clause is not agreed to, the contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance under this contract (including actions under the termination clause of this contract) beyond the funds obligated for contract performance.

(d)  When additional funds are obligated from time to time for continued performance of this contract, the contract shall be modified to increase the funds obligated and to indicate the period of performance for which funds are applicable. The contractor may notify the contracting officer as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause regarding any additional funds obligated.

(e)  This clause shall become inoperative upon obligation of funds sufficient to cover the full price stated in the contract, except for rights and obligations then existing under this clause.

(f)  Nothing in this clause shall affect the Government’s right to terminate the contract for convenience or default.

(End of clause)

Note:  When using the above clause, MCC52.232-72, the following language must be included in Section B to accompany the clause:

In accordance with clause MCC52.232-72, “Limitation of Funds – Incrementally Funded Contracts,” funds in the amount of [fill in amount] have been allotted to this contract. It is contemplated that funds now obligated under this contract will cover the work to be performed until [fill in date]. 

The Contractor shall not perform work on the contract which exceeds the total amount actually allotted by the Government to the contract. The Government is not obligated to reimburse the Contractor for costs incurred in excess of the total amount allotted by the Government to this contract. The contractor assumes the risk for any increased costs beyond what the Government obligates.




MCC 52.232-73 Travel Reimbursement (AUG 2011)

When authorized as part of the Scope of Work on this contract and within the contract ceiling and as approved by the Contracting Officer (CO) or Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COR), travel expenses incurred in performance of technical directives issued under this task order may be reimbursed as allowed by the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) in effect at the time of travel with the following exceptions for airline travel. 

Airline accommodations shall be via coach class for the following:

All flights 14 hours or less;

Flights 14 hours or more during which the traveler has elected for a rest stop or use of a business class lounge during the trip. The rest stop or use of a business class lounge is given in lieu of business class accommodations; and 

International flights defined as coach or coach with a rest stop may be found in the MCC Cabin Class Guidelines (available upon request).

In accordance with FTR 301-10.124, exceptions to flying coach must be authorized. Specifically, Premium class (Business or First) flights must be authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. 

The exceptions to flying coach are listed below: 

Disability (aka medical accommodation) - Upon request, the COR shall provide the Business Class Upgrade- Medical Questionnaire for Assessment of Disability/Reasonable Accommodation form for submission.

Sanitation/Health – Coach accommodations on an authorized/approved foreign air carrier do not provide adequate sanitation or health standards.

Savings – Flying in non-coach status would provide significant costs savings to MCC.

Security – If business class accommodations are essential to the successful performance of MCC’s mission for security purposes or exceptional circumstances when compared to coach.

If the traveler meets one of the above exceptions, the traveler must submit a justification and receive written approval from the Contracting Officer prior to travel. 

Travel reimbursement, which is part of ODC, shall not exceed the authorized ODC amount on the contract. To be reimbursable, the travel expenses must be:

Allowable under the FTR and the provisions of this contract and associated technical directives; 

Approved prior to travel expenditure by the CO or COR; and 

Allocable and necessary for performance of this contract and associated technical directives.

Travel reimbursement requests must be submitted in sufficient time for the CO or COR to give prior approval, and must identify:

The name of the traveler;

Destination (s) including itinerary;

Purpose of the travel; and

Cost breakdown. 

To be reimbursed, invoices including travel expenses must provide a detailed breakdown of the actual expenditures invoiced. Contractor shall maintain the original or legible copy of receipts for all travel expenses invoiced when the expenditure is $75.00 or more. MCC reserves the right to request evidence of any travel expense paid. 

NOTE:  	Travelers may upgrade flight accommodations at their own expense or through the use of frequent flyer miles if the coach airfare is upgradeable at no extra cost to MCC.  Please see MCC Cabin Class Guidelines which prevails. 

(End of clause) 

MCC 52.232-74 ODC Reimbursement (JAN 2007)

Other Direct Charges (ODCs) will be reimbursed for direct costs as provided in the contract and/or task order.  To be reimbursed, invoices including ODCs, must provide a detailed breakdown of the actual expenditures invoiced.  The contractor shall maintain the original or legible copy of receipts for all ODCs invoiced.  MCC reserves the right to request evidence of any ODC reimbursed.  To assure timely reimbursement of ODC’s, the contractor is strongly encouraged to submit charges within 45 days of the expense.

(End of clause)

MCC 52.242-70 Contractor Performance Assessment Rating System (CPARS) Registration (AUG 2011)

The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) utilizes the Contractor Performance Assessment Rating System (CPARS) to evaluate contractor performance (see FAR, Subparts 42.1502 and 42.1503).  Contractors doing business with MCC are required to register in CPARS accessible via the Internet at:  .  An evaluation of contractor performance using the CPARS is mandatory for all contract actions exceeding $150,000, but may be conducted for contract actions lower than that amount should significant events occur such as a contract termination or extraordinary contract performance by the contractor. Inquiries regarding the registration process should be addressed to the CPARS help desk.  The email address is   and the telephone number is (207) 438-1690.

(End of clause)

MCC 52.243-70 Increase In Services (OCT 2006)

The services described in Sections B and C (statement of work) represent the Government’s best estimate for known requirements at this time.  However, due to the uncertainty of the work, the Government reserves the right to add or delete services if the need arises.  

(End of clause)

CONTRACT CLAUSES

[RESERVED]



LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

MCC-12-RFP-0004 workbook (xlsx)



CLIN

DESCRIPTION

Qty

Unit 

Unit Price

Total Price

0001

FIXED PRICE 

 

 

 

 

0002

COST REIMBURSEMENT

 

 

 

 

0003

INCENTIVE

 

 

 

 

0004

OTHER DIRECT COSTS

 

 

 

 

0005

LABOR HOUR Award through 12/31/2012

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0006

LABOR HOUR 1/1/2013 through 12/31/2013

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0007

LABOR HOUR 1/1/2014 through 12/31/2014

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0008

LABOR HOUR 1/1/2015 through 12/31/2015

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0009

LABOR HOUR 1/1/2016 through 12/31/2016

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0010

LABOR HOUR 1/1/2017 through 12/31/2017

 

 

 

 

 

Program Manager 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Analyst 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 Amount Invoiced

This Period

Cumulative Amount Invoiced

Authorized Value of Contract

Balance Remaining on Contract








CLIN DESCRIPTION Qty Unit  Unit Price Total Price
0001 FIXED PRICE 
0002 COST REIMBURSEMENT
0003 INCENTIVE
0004 OTHER DIRECT COSTS
0005 LABOR HOUR Award through 12/31/2012
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
0006 LABOR HOUR 1/1/2013 through 12/31/2013
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
0007 LABOR HOUR 1/1/2014 through 12/31/2014
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
0008 LABOR HOUR 1/1/2015 through 12/31/2015
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
0009 LABOR HOUR 1/1/2016 through 12/31/2016
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
0010 LABOR HOUR 1/1/2017 through 12/31/2017
Program Manager 
Senior Analyst 
Administrative Assistant
Contract/Task Order Number Period of Performance (base and options) Contract/Task Order Value
Technical POC
Name Email Tel. Number
Contractual POC
Name Email Tel. Number
Project Description (Relevance to the solicitation)
Company:
Corporate Address:
City
State
Zip
Phone:
Fax:
Website:
Cage Code:
DUNS:
Tax ID:
CCR:
ORCA:
GSA Schedule(s)
Officers:
Start Date:
Business Type:
Business Size:
Annual Revenue (2011):
Federal Contact:
Phone:
Fax:
Email:
Export Locations:
Past Performance Evaluation:
ORCA Record
Narrative:
NAICS Codes:
FSC Codes:
Product Categories:
Company: Oxarc, Inc.
Corporate Address: 4003 East Broadway
City Spokane
State WA
Zip 99202-4530
Phone: 509-535-7794
Fax: 509-532-2666
Website: http://www.oxarc.com 
Cage Code: 0C3P9
DUNS: 04-570-4400
Tax ID: 91-0656557
CCR: Active, Registration Valid Until 01/10/2013 
ORCA: Current
Officers: Greg Walmsley, President
Jana Nelson, Executive Vice-President
Mike Sutley, General Manager
Rick Henson, Sales Manager
Start Date: 25112.0
Business Type: S-Corp, State of Washington
Business Size: Small, Less than 500 Employees
Small business Yes
Small disadvantaged business No
Women-owned small business No
HUBZone small business No
Service-disabled veteran-owned small business No
Veteran-owned small business No
Annual Revenue (2011): 67000000.0
Federal Contact: Robert Jones
Phone: 509-535-7794 x 3127
Fax: 509-532-2666
Email: rjones@oxarc.com 
Export Locations: Canada, Japan, Mexico, South Korea
Past Performance Evaluation: Dun & Bradstreet Open Ratings Score: 90    http://www.oxarc.com/federal_capabilities.ydev 
ORCA Record http://www.oxarc.com/orca_record.ydev 
Narrative: OXARC, Inc. has over 40 years of experience providing customers with best-in-class products and solutions. OXARC is committed to earning our place as a trusted partner to our clients by providing the highest level of service, value, and quality. OXARC has remained profitable every year since the company’s founding in 1968.
NAICS Codes: 238190, 313230, 325120, 325998, 326122, 327410, 331210, 331222, 331315, 331491, 332313, 332439, 332618, 332710, 332911, 333514, 333515, 333912, 333991, 333992, 334111, 335311, 335312, 339113, 339999, 423430, 423450, 423460, 423710, 423810, 423820, 423830, 423840, 423990, 424320, 424690, 532412, 532490, 541330, 541380, 611699, 811310, 922160
FSC Codes: 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 42, 51, 52, 53, 58, 59, 60, 63, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 77, 83, 84, 95, 99, D, J, K, N, U
Product Categories: ·  ADP Equipment & Software 
·  Agricultural Machinery & Equipment 
·  Alarm, Signal & Security Detection Systems 
·  Automatic Data Processing & Telecommunications
·  Certified Welding Inspections (CWI)
·  Chemicals & Chemical Products 
·  Clothing, Individual Equipment, & Insignia 
·  Communications Equipment 
·  Containers, Packaging, & Packing Supplies 
·  Education & Training Services 
·  Electrical & Electronic Equipment Components 
·  Fiber Optics Materials & Components
·  Fire Fighting, Rescue, & Safety Equipment 
·  Fuels, Lubricants, Oils, & Waxes
·  Gases – Medical & Specialty
·  Hand Tools 
·  Hardware & Abrasives 
·  Hazmat
·  Industrial Equipment
·  Installation of Equipment 
·  Instruments & Laboratory Equipment 
·  IT Products & Solutions
·  Maintenance & Repair Shop Equipment 
·  Maintenance, Repair & Rebuilding of Equipment
·  Materials Handling Equipment 
·  Measuring Tools 
·  Medical, Dental, & Veterinary Equipment & Supplies 
·  Metalworking Machinery & Equipment
·  Modification of Equipment 
·  Musical Instruments, Phonographs, & Radios 
·  Office Machines 
·  Office Supplies & Devices 
·  Photographic Equipment 
·  Quality Control, Testing & Inspection Services
·  Rope, Cable, Chain, & Fittings 
·  Safety Products
·  Service & Trade Equipment 
·  Special Industry Machinery 
·  Spill Control
·  Technical Representative Services 
·  Textiles, Leather, Furs, Apparel & Shoes, Tents Flags 
·  Training Aids & Devices 
·  Valves 
·  Welding Products
·  Woodworking Machinery & Equipment
