





Media Monitoring Subscription and Services

RESPONSES to Vendor Questions 



Is the language to be monitored English only?



English-language media only.



Regarding the statement; "Requires a platform capable of monitoring, 24 hours a day and seven days a week, hundreds of TV and radio stations in the US and around the world."  Can you provide some additional insight to the term "around the world"?



World-wide coverage.



Is there a list of specific TV stations and radio stations that must be monitored?



No.  We require the ability to find any news segment that has been broadcast by a U.S. media outlet (including local, regional and national) or British/UK outlet (e.g. BBC).  The expectation is that if something has aired, we can pull it up, view it, capture it, and provide our leadership access to it (presumably in the form of a video link) when necessary.  Specifically, given the location of our headquarters, we will want to ensure access to all Tampa-area broadcast media news segments.



If so, will the bidders receive this list of stations?



N/A



Are there specific languages that must be monitored?



English-language media only.



Will the TV station and radio station feeds be provided to the successful bidder?



No.  We are asking the vendor to solve that problem for us.



Is it sufficient to provide full-length transcripts of text in the original language? OR do the full-length transcripts of text need to be in English?



English-language media only.



By “Unlimited Transcripts”, do you mean that all archived material needs to be transcribed to text? OR only requested search results need to be transcribed to text?



Only requested search results would need to be transcribed to text.



A new request to add a TV/Radio channel is not a simple task.  Most companies must evaluate the request and to add a station is extremely expensive if they add.



      Can you  narrow the Unlimited  And provide numbers?



No we can not.  We require the ability to find any news segment that has been broadcast by a U.S. media outlet (including local, regional and national) or British/UK outlet (e.g. BBC).  The expectation is that if something has aired, we can pull it up, view it, capture it, and provide our leadership access to it (presumably in the form of a video link) when necessary.  Specifically, given the location of our headquarters, we will want to ensure access to all Tampa-area broadcast media news segments.





What are the hundreds of stations referred to in the quote? 



The TV station and radio station feeds will not be provided.  We require the ability to find any news segment that has been broadcast by a U.S. media outlet (including local, regional and national) or British/UK outlet (e.g. BBC).  The expectation is that if something has aired, we can pull it up, view it, capture it, and provide our leadership access to it (presumably in the form of a video link) when necessary.  Specifically, given the location of our headquarters, we will want to ensure access to all Tampa-area broadcast media news segments.



Monitoring reports can only be provided daily not hourly.  Are daily monitoring reports required to be hourly or daily is sufficient?



N/A



Unlimited full text is very expensive and is priced per copy. Will this be an issue?



N/A



Can we provide various options in this quote?



Alerady answered by the 6th Contracting Squadron…



“In reference to you question of submitting multiple options within the quote.  Yes, we will consider all options offered during the evaluation phase.  Please ensure all options are priced individually.”  