
U.S. Coast Guard
                                                        Aircraft Engine Test Cell Upgrade
                                                             Statement of Objectives

1.    BACKGROUND

      The U.S. Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center, (ALC), operates one (1) T-700-GE-401 Engine Turboshaft Test Cell at its facility in
      Elizabeth City, NC. This facility was established in 1986. This Test Cell was designed to operate the General Electric T-700-GE (series)
      engine through its entire operational range. The Test Cell is of a basic “U” shape and utilizes an Air Dynamometer P/N 1314AS100-1. The
      Test Cell was adapted from a Portable Outdoor configuration that was modified to fit in an Indoor facility. The Air Dynamometer is attached
      to a Portable Trailer, P/N 1289AS101-1 and the engine to be tested is mounted to the trailer. The Controls and Monitoring system are fixed
      to the facility in a Control room attached to the Test Cell. The T-700-GE-401 Engine Turboshaft Test Cell currently uses a proprietary data
      reduction program from CMR Technologies Inc to verify engine performance.

      The U.S. Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center, (ALC), operates one (1) ATF3-6-4C Jet Engine Test Cell at its facility in Elizabeth City,
      NC. This facility was established in 1986. This Test Cell was designed to operate the Honeywell ATF3-6-4C engine through its entire
      operational range. The Test Cell is of a basic “U” shape with the engine installed into an ATF3-6 engine adapter, P/N ASE/501445-001. The
      adapter secures and positions the engine into the ASE 50K thrust stand, P/N ASE/501327-001. The thrust stand provides services to the
      engine through a coupling plate and measures engine thrust utilizing a load cell P/N 206209, type U3G1 from BLH Electronics, Inc. The
      Controls and Monitoring system are fixed to the facility in a Control room attached to the Test Cell. The ATF3 Test Cell currently uses a
      proprietary data reduction program from Honeywell to verify engine performance.



2.    SCOPE

      The U.S. Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center’s objective is to:
         1. Obtain services for the Design, Upgrade, Modification, and Sustainment of the ATF3 Jet Test Cell.
         2. Obtain services for the Design, Upgrade, Modification, and Sustainment of the T-700-GE-401 Engine Turboshaft Test Cell to included T-
            700-701c, and the CT7-9C3


      This specification defines the minimum requirements for the upgrade of the Automatic Data Acquisition System (ADAS), Data Reduction System,
      Display and Control System (DADCS) for both Test Cells located in Building 100 at Coast Guard Aviation Logistics Center, Elizabeth City,
      NC. The ADAS is used to acquire, display and record all physical parameters required for depot testing of the ATF3 and T-700 engines. This
      upgrade shall consist of replacement of the existing antiquated computer hardware, software, and equipment as well as replacement of
      existing sensory sub-systems such as:


            • ATF3 System:
                  o Neff Data Acquisition System
                  o Data General CPU and Printer
                  o Data Reduction Computer and Printer
                  o Throttle Control System
                  o Engine Monitoring Sensor System
                       ▪ Temperature
                       ▪ Pressure (Hydraulic and Pneumatic)
                       ▪ Vibration
                       ▪ Displays/Controls
                       ▪ Video Monitoring/Camera System
                  o Repositioning of the control console.
                  o Upgrade System Power

            • T-700 System:
                  o CMR ADAS System
                  o Mistic Controller System
                  o OPTO 22 Interface System
                  o Throttle Control System
                  o Air Dynamometer System
                  o Engine Mounting
                  o Engine Monitoring Sensor System
                       ▪ Temperature
                       ▪ Pressure (Hydraulic and Pneumatic)
                       ▪ Vibration
                       ▪ Displays/Controls
                       ▪ Video Monitoring/Camera System
                  o Repositioning of the control console.
                  o Replace T700 CPU and Printer Systems
                  o Upgrade System Power

      The objective is to enable ALC to have a modernized test cell facility to meet OEM Standards and support the United States Coast Guard
      engines for the next decade. Our goal is to utilize the latest versions of sustainable "Commercial-off-the-shelf" (COTS) technology. Award
      recipient should project sustainability of selected equipment, hardware, software, and spare parts for a term of at least 5 years from Test
      Cell Upgrade Acceptance.


      Test Cell component Inter-Changeability between the two Test Cells is required.


3.0      GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS


      ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: In the event of a conflict between the text of this document and the references cited herein, the text of this
      document takes precedence. Nothing in this document, however, supersedes applicable laws and regulations unless a specific exemption has
      been obtained.


      Specifications, standards, and handbooks. The following specifications, standards and handbooks form a portion of this document to the
      extent specified herein. Unless otherwise specified, the issues of these documents are those listed in the issue of the Department of
      Defense Index of Specifications and Standards (DODISS) and supplement thereto, cited in the solicitation.
      FEDERAL


            Code of Federal Regulations (CFR): Federal Communications Commission
            Title 47, Parts 15.101 to 15.109


            Code of Federal Regulations (CFR): Occupational Safety and Health Standards
           Title 29, Parts 1910.301 to 1910.399.


            (Copies of the above standard may be obtained from the U.S. Government Printing Office Superintendent of Documents, Mail Stop: SSOP,
      Washington DC 20402-9328)


      FAA Advisory Circular AC 43-207 Correlation, Operation, and Modification of turbofan/jet engine test cells.


      (Copies of FAA publications are available from the Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C., 20591
      or www1.airweb.faa.gov)


      MILITARY OVERHAUL PUBLICATIONS


      AFT3 Jet Test Cell Publications


      2J-ATF3-10             POWER PLANT BUILD-UP MANUAL
      2J-ATF3-2-1            TURBOFAN AIRCRAFT ENGINE – LIGHT ENGINE MAINTENANCE MANUAL
      2J-ATF3-2-2            TURBOFAN AIRCRAFT ENGINE – HEAVY ENGINE MAINTENANCE MANUAL
      2J-ATF3-2-3            TURBOFAN AIRCRAFT ENGINE - REPAIR MANUAL
      2J-ATF3-4              TURBOFAN AIRCRAFT ENGINE - REPAIR MANUAL
      TI-8084H               Test Instructions for Model ATF3-6 Engines

      T-700-GE-401 Engine Turboshaft Test Cell Publications


      A1-T700A-MMI-200       TURBOSHAFT ENGINE MODELS T-700- GE-401 & 401C
      A1-T700A-MMI-210       TURBOSHAFT ENGINE MODELS T-700- GE-401 & 401C
      AG-240AC-OMP-000 TURBOSHAFT ENGINE TEST SYS – ORGAN & INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE MANUAL w/IPB
      AG-240AC-OMP-100       TURBOSHAFT ENGINE TEST SYS – ORGAN & INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE MANUAL w/IPB
      AG-502BA-MDB-000 AIR DYNAMOMETER T58/T700 – INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE & DEPOT INSTRUCTIONS w/IPB
      03-1-641               TURBOSHAFT ENGINE TEST SYS, A/F3– ORGAN & INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE MANUAL w/IPB
      03-01-642              T700 ENGINE TEST SYS, A/F37T-16(V)3 – ORGAN & INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE MANUAL w/IPB
      CT7-93C TEST CELL PUBLICATIONS
      SEI- 576  GE-Aircraft CT7 Turboprop engine maintenance Manual
      SEI-578 Aircraft CT7 turboprop engine shop manual


            All GE and Honeywell technical manuals are proprietary to the OEM.
           Contractor must be able to obtain independently.
      (Requests for more information will be sent to the Contracting Officer at the address below)


      Contracting Officer
      USCG Aviation Logistics Center
      Industrial Operations Division (IOD) Contracting Section
      Ginger Woodington, Building 63
      Elizabeth City, NC     27909


      DRAWINGS


      Copies of the Facilities Drawings will be provided to the contractor through the Contracting Officer



4.      DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT

      Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
      Beneficial comments (recommendations, additions, deletions) and any pertinent data which may be of use in improving this document should be
      addressed to:


      Contracting Officer
      USCG Aviation Logistics Center
      Industrial Operations Division (IOD) Contracting Section
      Ginger Woodington, Building 63
      Elizabeth City, NC     27909


      Commercial Phone (252) 334-5051


5.    REQUIREMENTS


      This Up-grade will require the Test Cell to be capable of testing repaired engines in compliance with the Original Equipment Manufacture’s,
      (OEM), specifications of the engines. The Upgrade shall improve the Test Cell to meet or exceed Industry Standards In-Accordance-With,
      (IAW); Federal Aviation Administration Advisory Circular AC 43-207, the National Electrical Code (NEC) and federal regulations. This
      upgrade should include, but is not limited to, the following systems:


           1. Structural changes required for  the installation of  upgrades
           2. Load or Dynamometer System
           3. Electrical: (Test Cell and Adapters)
           4. Fuel
           5. Pneumatic: (Test Cell and Adapters)
           6. Hydraulic: (Test Cell and Adapters)
           7. Sensor: (RTD’s, Pressure, and Temperature)
           8. Control
           9. Display
          10. Data Acquisition
          11. Data Reduction
          12. Alarm, Warning, Annunciation, and Indicators
          13. Data Recording, Playback, and Storage
          14. CCTV, Video Recording, Playback, and Storage
          15. Computers and Peripherals
          16. Intercom and Communications
          17. FOD Screens
          18. Bypass Ducting
          19. Hot Shrouds
          20. Test Bed (T-700 & CT7 use same test bed interchangeably)
          21. Vibration and Trim Balance Analyzer


      The Test Cells will be required to correlate a USCG jet engine to the OEM specifications and FAA Document AC 43-207.


         1. The T-700 Test Cell utilizing the USCG “Gold Engine” that has been baselined by General Electric.
         2. The ATF3 Test Cell utilizing an ATF3-6-4C engine provided by the USCG.
         3. The CT7-9C3 engine will be provided by the USCG.

5.1   DATA COLLECTION


      The system must fully integrate the test system component equipment, software, and Automatic Data Acquisition System to collect and
      distribute channel data. This includes, but is not limited to, temperatures, pressures, humidity, altitude, speeds, rated horsepower,
      thrust, air flows, fluid flows, and engine cycles. Collectively, these data points determine the operational performance of the Jet or
      Turboshaft engine being tested. The software must provide the capability to consolidate this data, present them to the operator in various
      display formats, and automatically compare them against adjustable limits for automated error control sequences and/or error annunciation.


5.2   GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE (GUI)


      The system must provide on-screen guidance and instructions for the operator to run a series of predefined tests to verify the operations
      and performance of the engines and their components. Visual displays must be in color, and capable of displaying selected data in various
      forms to include, but not limited to, Text, Raw Data, bar graph, simulated dials, simulated cockpit indicators, video, caution, warning
      indicators, and overspeed protection. User input will be via Touch screen, keyboard, and mouse driven menus.


5.3   DATA RECORDING AND STORAGE


      The integrated system must be capable of recording continuous selected parameters and snapshots of the channel data on to the system hard
      drive, and utilize this data to generate specialized printed reports in color and Black and White for the completed tests, in electronic
      and hard copy formats. Selected Tests parameters and snapshots should be re-settable to allow for multiple snapshots of the same test for
      system troubleshooting.


      The selected parameters, snapshot points, and reports must be adaptable and changeable to meet the changing and challenging documentation
      requirements. Reports must be generated and stored in Microsoft compatible formats.


      The system must include means of voice communication between operator and mechanic during engine set-up, motoring checks, leak checks and
      low-power runs.

5.4   TEST CELL CAPABILITIES


      The capabilities of the Test Cells are required to test the following engine types:


                                                                     JET CELL


         • USCG ATF3 engine
               o ATF3-6-4C

      All software must have the ability to be reprogrammed to accommodate a new engine type in the event the USCG re-engines the HU-25 Falcon.


                                                                 TURBOSHAFT CELL


         • USCG GE T-700 engines
               o T-700-401C
         • USAF, Navy, Marine, Army (JDLM)
               o T-700-401C
               o T-700-701C
         • USCG CASA series General Electric CT7-9
               o CT7-9C3

      The T-700 Test Cell will be required to operate with both the 24-pin and 31-pin Digital Engine Control Unit, (DECU/ECU).


      Inter-Service operability is highly desirable with Air Force, Navy, Army, and USMC systems and facilities.


5.5   DESIGN


      Both Test cells are required to have interchangeable current versions of operating systems, hardware, software, peripherals and electronic
      devices.  Interchangeable parts and components should be used wherever possible between the two test cells.   They are also required to
      provide identical user interface and console set-up.  All wiring used in the installation should be of aircraft grade whenever possible.
      Quick connects/disconnects shall be used wherever possible to allow for ease of maintenance and operation.


      The Government reserves the right to perform pre-award on-site visits of contractor’s production facility to gain insight of manufacturing
      capabilities.


      All software must have the capability to be reprogrammed in the event of a re-engine project of the HU-25 ATF3 engine package.

      The vibration and trim balance analyzer must have the ability to archive the vibration data.


6.       WARRANTY

      Upon Project completion, provide the designated Government personnel with the required training in system operation and maintenance.

      The Contractor shall provide a minimum one (1) year warranty on all parts and labor from the day of Government acceptance with a desired 24-
      hour response time.  This warranty shall cover ALL of the Test Cell System components specified in this document.


7.0   TECHNICAL documentation


      Upon completion the contractor will provide manuals on electronic media and hard copy that cover Layout, Design, Maintenance, Testing,
      Troubleshooting, Operation, Calibration, and Illustrated Parts Breakdown (IPB’s). These manuals must contain design and wiring schematics,
      installation drawings, and must include component part numbers and OEM part numbers with manufacturer for installed equipment. Wiring
      diagrams must include wire type, size, connector ID number and Connector Part Numbers. The contractor shall provide written permissions
      that allow the USCG to reproduce these manuals and software/firmware either partially, or in their entirety for USCG use.


      The system must include software programs, instructions with user interface and manuals to calibrate, troubleshoot, and maintain the test
      system and all system components.


      The T700/CT7 and ATF3 systems shall include Test Procedures, Parameters, and Test Points IAW Appropriate Technical Publications.


      The contractor shall provide Acceptance Data Sheets for each phase of the Up-grade to be inspected and accepted by ALC IOD Quality
      Assurance Personnel.


      ANY EQUIPMENT, PROCESSES, SOFTWARE, DOCUMENTATION, AND EQUIPMENT DEVELOPED FOR THIS PROJECT WILL BECOME THE PROPERTY OF THE COAST GUARD.


7.1   TRAINING

      The Contractor shall provide sufficient personnel on site for Installation and Assistance, Start-up/Acceptance, Operator Training
      (Equipment Operation), Maintenance Training.  A priced line item is requested for additional training on an as needed basis for new
      employees.  The Government requires the contractor to perform an initial maintenance checks process with USCG employees prior to final
      acceptance.

2.      SERVICE AGREEMENT

      The contractor will agree to a service agreement to properly calibrate and service the complete test cell system on-site, once per year.
      The Government desires the contractor to provide a 24 hour response time for on-site service for any emergency situation designated by the
      Coast Guard.

   3. SERVICE BULLETINS

      All service bulletins if not previously accomplished, shall be identified to the contracting officer. All future Service Bulletins for
      equipment and software installed pursuant to this contract shall be made available to the Contracting Officer for possible incorporation in
      to the Coast Guards’ test cell. Incorporation of these Service Bulletins will be at the discretion of the USCG, and will be negotiated on a
      case-by-case basis.



8.0   DELIVERABLES

      Contractor shall provide system designs, manuals, and schematics in an electronic media format that allows for one copy to be locked, to
      preserve original design, and format; the other copy to be unlocked to allow for future system upgrades, modification, and expansion.


      All illustrations will be originated in “Autotrol Technical Illustrator” software and delivered as a “.dg” and “.cgm” file. The existing
      ALC illustration database will be utilized to generate and store filenames and metadata for these graphics. The generated filename will be
      placed in 6 pt font in the lower right hand corner of the illustration and shall also be used as the electronic filename for the graphic.


      All technical drawings will be originated in “CoCreate One Space Designer” or “ProEngineer” and delivered in the native  format  for  each.
      The existing ALC drawing database will be utilized to generate and store filenames and metadata for these drawings.

9.0   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

      The upgrade to the test cell system should be completed within 12 months of contract award. This will include design, purchase and
      modification of all hardware, software, and manuals. Shutdown, disassembly of the existing system, upgrades, and correlation is desired to
      be completed within 90 days to avoid serious production delays.


      All efforts shall be made by the Contractor to complete the installation as soon as possible after the start of the contract.
      Installation, as long as it does not interfere with the U.S. Coast Guard production operations, can begin as soon as the Government program
      manager has approved the proposed design and received approval from the Government.  Any Contractor tasks that will require extensive
      interruption of the U.S. Coast Guard utilities or facility/equipment access must be scheduled with the Government prior to implementation.


10.0  GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY

      The USCG will make an engine T700-GE-401C and CT7 available for use in correlating the test cell following installation of the upgrade.


      The USCG will also make available an ATF3-6-4C engine for correlating the test cell following installation of the upgrade.
