STATEMENT OF WORK

EAD Technical Support for 

Professional Services, Data Analysis, and

Development of EPA Statistical Dissemination Techniques

November 23, 2010





I. Background



The US EPA’s Environmental Analysis Division (EAD) needs technical support for professional services in implementing statistical methods for data quality assessment tasks for large data bases.  A primary example is the Toxic Release Inventory data base.   Frequently the EPA must make value judgments on analyses based on large data sets, and the Agency must evaluate the quality of the data and the applicability of the certain statistical methods to the data. Further, EAD must develop techniques to disseminate data, information, methods, tools, and code to other offices within EPA.  This project is intended to develop analysis, tools, and new approaches to address these issues.



II. Scope of Work - Tasks



The Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) data base is a good example of a very large data base upon which EPA must base many policy decisions.  The contractor shall develop new approaches to assessing data quality, and to derive procedures to detect possible data flaws using the TRI self reported data.  The contractor should also evaluate appropriate statistical procedures to be applied to these data. 



The contractor shall develop IT tools to facilitate the data quality assessment by enabling analysts to query the data base under various “what-if” scenarios. This should include the development of a model to investigate the impact of systematic discrepancies in the reported data.  For example, "What is the impact of a systematic 30% under-reporting by the middle 50% of facilities?"  In doing this the contractor shall consider the collection of TRI related tools such as TRI Explorer, tri.net, tri-chip, etc.



The contractor shall review statistical methodology and modeling for data quality assessment and regulatory issues.  This includes methodology that has been developed by EPA as well as methodology that has been submitted by outside interests.



The contractor shall develop presentations based upon their work and shall deliver oral seminars and written papers as jointly agreed by the contractor and the project officer. The papers shall be disseminated in accordance with the structure described in item 6.



If applicable, the contractor shall provide to EPA computer code utilized in its solution work.  This code should be adequately documented so that an EPA user can readily comprehend and run estimation procedures



The contractor shall design a web-based statistical dissemination technique for EPA analysts to display work and share statistical questions, code, analyses, etc.



The contractor shall meet with EPA monthly.  It is not necessary to meet in person, as a phone conference would be satisfactory.   At this meeting the contractor shall report briefly on the month’s activities and present a short progress report for the month.  (If the meeting is over the phone, the report should be emailed or faxed prior to the call.)



Provide “as-needed” consultation for developing problems.

	

III. Deliverables and Professional Services



All products by the Contractor must be of high quality, written in a clear concise style according to scientific convention, with a logical organization and presentation.  Products not adhering to these standards, or substantially lacking scientific quality, will not be accepted.  The Contractor shall provide all written materials and responses in both hard copy and Microsoft compatible electronic format.



IV. Estimated Delivery and Task Completion Schedule



The period of performance of this effort is January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011.



The Contractor shall be responsible for delivering all written materials and professional services in accordance with the following time schedule:









IV. Release of Data 



The contractor shall not release any of the data collected in this study nor publish any of the results of this purchase order without consulting and obtaining written consent of the Contracting Officer.



Monthly progress report

Within each calendar month, no later than 7 days into the next month

Outline of proposed analytic techniques

3 months after award

Design and capabilities statement of analytic tool

5 months after award

Delivery of tools/software

12 months after award

Reviews of technical papers

2 weeks after presentation

Design of web-based publications system

5 months after award

Implementation of web-based dissemination techniques

11 months after award

Final presentation of work accomplished



11-12 months after award