

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

U.S. AIR FORCE-SMC/PKE



REQUEST FOR QUOTE

FA2816-14-T-0001

EVM Software



A.  GENERAL INFORMATION 



SMC/PKE has a requirement for a new Earned Value Management (EVM) Software procurement.  This is a streamlined combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Subpart 12.6 as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.



This notice constitutes the only notice.  A written solicitation will not be issued.  This requirement is issued as a “Request for Quote”.  Award will be made to the contractor who meets the specifications set forth in the Statement of Work (SOW) of this solicitation. 



This proposed contract is being considered as a set-aside under the small business set-aside program.  The NAICS Code is 511210 and the Size Standard $35.5M.  The government is interested in all small businesses that are interested in performing this requirement.



A Firm Fixed Priced award will be made in accordance with the tentative schedule described in the Description section of this solicitation.



1.  DESCRIPTION/QTY:

The Contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, vehicles, supervision, and other items and services necessary to perform all COTS configuration for LAAFB as defined in the Statement of Work (SOW).  



The following is the schedule of supplies/services:



Clin 0001- EVM Software, to include installation and unlimited licenses for Organizations assigned to Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), Los Angeles AFB, CA (Main Base in El Segundo, Ca and Fort MacArthur in San Pedro, Ca), Schreiver AFB, CO and Kirtland AFB, NM.  Period of Performance is within 30 calendar days after date of award.  Firm Fixed Price CLIN.  Quantity is 1; Unit of Issue is JB; UNIT PRICE $________ and EXTENDED AMOUNT $__________.



Clin 0002-Initial Training of Government identified users, to include Super Users for Organizations assigned to Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), Los Angeles AFB, CA (Main Base in El Segundo, Ca and Fort MacArthur in San Pedro, Ca), Schreiver AFB, CO and Kirtland AFB, NM.  Period of Performance is within 60 calendar days after installation of EVM software in Clin 0001.  Firm Fixed Price CLIN.  Quantity is 1; Unit of Issue is JB; UNIT PRICE $________ and EXTENDED AMOUNT $__________.



Clin 0003- Sustainment, includes maintaining of Customer Help Desk (telephone and/or E-Mail) and installation/training of software updates.  Period of Performance shall be for 12 months from the date of award of any contract.  Firm Fixed Price Clin.  Quantity is 12; Unit of Issue is MO; UNIT PRICE $_________ and EXTENDED AMOUNT $_________.





Clin 0004- Refresher Training as requested and approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.  Period of Performance shall be for 12 months from the date of award of any contract.  Cost Clin.  Quantity is 1; Unit of Issue is Lump Sum; EXTENDED AMOUNT $10,000.00.  NEGOTIATED Class Rate for Los Angeles AFB, CA $_________; Schriever AFB, CO $_________; and Kirtland AFB, NM $_________.



2.  QUOTES DUE DATE:



QUOTES ARE DUE 21 Jan @ 13:00 Hrs. Pacific Standard Time (PST).  QUOTES RECEIVED AFTER DUE DATE WILL NOT BE USED IN THE AWARD SELECTION PROCESS.  This procurement will be awarded under Simplified Acquisition Procedures.



3.   POINT OF CONTACT:



Responses to this request for quote shall be provided only in writing via e-mail to:          Ms. Rosie Yawn at  and/or Mr. Dennis A. Hass at .



Questions for this action shall be made only in writing to the email address provided in the Point of Contact Information; no telephone calls will be accepted. The cutoff date for questions is 14 Jan 2014 @ 16:00 Hrs Pacific Standard Time (PST).



4.   PLACE OF PERFORMANCE:



Los Angeles Air Force Base address: 483 N. Aviation Blvd, El Segundo CA, 90245 – and satellite offices located at Schreiver AFB, CO and Kirtland AFB, NM.



5.   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:



NOTES:



Supplies are for delivery FOB destination.



Provide Tax ID, Cage Code, DUNS, and Discount Terms.



Payments will be processed via electronic funds transfer (EFT).



Contractor is liable for the ACCURACY of submitted quote(s) and for any incurred costs if quote(s) was submitted erroneously.





B.  CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:



The following provisions/clauses apply:



PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.212-1	Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items				  FEB 2012

		(Contractor may use their own format to submit quote)

52.212-2	Evaluation--Commercial Items 

(Evaluation will be made in accordance with paragraph A)	  JAN 1999

52.212-3	Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items

(On-line Representations and Certifications will be pulled)	  MAR 2012

252.203-7005 Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials   NOV 2011



PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT



52.252-1     SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):



http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vfdfara.htm



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE





CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT



52.212-5     CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2012) (DEVIATION)

(a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation.

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.

(b) 

(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clause in this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (b)(i) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—



(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

(iii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities 

(iv) [Reserved]

(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.

(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)

(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)

(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).

(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.

(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S.- Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.

52.252-2     CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) 

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):









 



52.252-6     AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)



(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the date of the clause.



(b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of “(DEVIATION)” after the name of the regulation.





252.212-7001     CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO DEFENSE ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2010) (DEVIATION)



(a) In addition to the clauses listed in paragraph (b) of the Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items clause of this contract (FAR 52.212-5) (OCT 2010) (DEVIATION), the Contractor shall include the terms of the following clause, if applicable, in subcontracts for commercial items or commercial components, awarded at any tier under this contract:









5352.201-9101 OMBUDSMAN (APR 2010)



(a)  An ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential offerors, and others for this acquisition. When requested, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the authority of the program manager, contracting officer, or source selection official. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman may refer the party to another official who can resolve the concern. 



(b)  Before consulting with an ombudsman, interested parties must first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution. Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines for any other processes (e.g., 

agency level bid protests, GAO bid protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions, contests of OMBC A-76 competition performance decisions).



(c)  If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, concerned parties may contact the SMC Ombudsman, Mr. James Gill, , (310) 653-1789. Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations that cannot be resolved at the MAJCOM/DRU or ARISRA level, may be brought by the concerned party for further consideration to the Air Force ombudsman, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (ADAS) (Contracting), SAF/AQC, 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1060, phone number (703) 588-7004, facsimile number (703) 588-1067.



(d)  The ombudsman has no authority to render a decision that binds the agency. 



(e)  Do not contact the ombudsman to request copies of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical requirements. Such inquiries shall be directed to the Contracting Officer. 







52.204-2

52.204-7

52.204-10



52.204-99

Security Requirements

System for Award Management

Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier 

Subcontract Awards 

SAM Deviation

AUG 1996

JUL 2013

FEB 2012



AUG 2012

 

52.212-4 

Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items 

FEB 2012 

 

52.222-3

52.222-19 

Convict Labor

Child Labor -- Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies 

JUN 2003

JUL 2010 

 

52.222-21

52.222-26

52.222-50

52.223-18



52.225-13

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities

Equal Employment Opportunity

Combat Trafficking in Persons

Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging 

While Driving

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases

FEB 1999

MAR 2007

FEB 2009

AUG 2011



JUN 2008

 

52.232-33 

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration 

OCT 2003 

 

52.233-3 

Protest After Award 

AUG 1996 

 

52.233-4

52.246-4 

Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim 

Inspections for Services – Fixed Price to Section I – 

OCT 2004 

AUG 1996



 

252.203.7000

252.203-7002 

Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials

Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights

JAN 2009

JAN 2009 

 

252.232-7003 

Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports 

MAR 2008 

 

252.232-7008 

Assignment of Claims (Overseas) 

JUN 1997 

 

252.232-7010 

Levies on Contract Payments 

DEC 2006 

 

252.247-7023 

Transportation of Supplies by Sea (Alt 1)

MAY 2002 

 



252.237-7010



252.237-7019

Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel (NOV 2010) (Section 1038 of Pub. L. 111-84).

Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees (SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Pub. L. 108-375).

252.247-7003

Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (JUL 2009) (Section 884 of Public Law 110-417)

252.247-7023

Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C. 2631)

252.247-7024

Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631)EVALUATION FACTORS



1. The Government will use FAR 12.602 Streamlined Evaluation of Offers vs. FAR 15.3 Source

Selection to evaluate offers submitted in response to the solicitation. The Government will

award to the offeror with the lowest evaluated price among those that are technically acceptable

and have an acceptable record of past performance. The Government reserves the right to award

no contract at all depending upon the quality of offers received and whether proposed prices are

fair and reasonable. The factors that shall be used to evaluate proposals are Technical, Past

Performance and Price, as expounded below.



(a) All evaluation factors are equal in importance; however, a proposal is unawardable at any

price if, after final evaluation, either the Technical or Past Performance factor receives a

rating of “Unacceptable.” The evaluation does not permit tradeoffs between price and

non-price factors. Award will be made to the responsible offeror who submits a proposal

that (1) conforms to the requirements of the solicitation; (2) that receives a rating of

“Acceptable” on both the Technical and Past Performance evaluation factors; and (3) that

submits the proposal with the lowest TEP, provided that the TEP is not unbalanced and is

reasonable.



(b) If the lowest TEP, technically acceptable offeror is determined to have an unacceptable

past performance rating , the matter shall be referred to the Small Business Administration for a Certificate of Competency determination, in accordance with FAR 15.101-2(b)(1) and FAR subpart 19.6. If a Certificate of Competency is issued by the Small Business Administration, the offeror will be eligible for award. However, if a Certificate of Competency is not issued by the Small Business Administration, the offeror will be ineligible for award.



(c) Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions,

representations and certifications, and technical requirements, in addition to those

identified as factors or subfactors. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the

solicitation may result in the offeror being ineligible for award. Offerors must clearly

identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and must provide complete

supporting rationale. The Government reserves the right to determine any such exceptions unacceptable and the proposal, therefore, ineligible for award.



(d) The Government will initiate concurrent evaluation of all evaluation factors on all

proposals. The Government will consider, throughout the evaluation, the "correction

potential" of a proposal including whether any proposal deficiency can be rectified. The

judgment of such "correction potential" is within the sole discretion of the Government.

If an aspect of an offeror's proposal does not meet the Government's requirements and is

not considered correctable, the offeror may be eliminated from the competitive range.



(e) If, during the evaluation period, it is determined to be in the best interest of the

Government to hold discussions, offeror responses to Evaluation Notices (ENs) and the

Final Proposal Revision (FPR) will be considered in making the source selection

decision. If the offeror’s proposal has been evaluated as Acceptable at the time

discussions are closed, any changes or exceptions in the Final Proposal Revision are

subject to evaluation and may introduce risk that the offeror’s proposal be determined

Unacceptable and, thus, ineligible for award.



(f) Contract(s) may be awarded to the offeror(s) who is deemed responsible in accordance

with FAR Part 9.1, as supplemented, whose proposal conforms to the solicitation’s

requirements (to include all stated terms, conditions, representations, certifications, and

all other information required by Instructions to Offerors of this solicitation) and is

judged, based on the evaluation factors and subfactors, to represent the lowest price

technically acceptable proposal. While the Government will strive for maximum

objectivity, the source selection process, by its nature, is subjective; therefore, professional judgment is implicit throughout the entire process.



(g) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the

successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a

binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified

expiration time, the Government may accept an offer whether or not there are

negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before

award.



EVALUATION FACTORS

FACTOR 1 - Technical: Pursuant to evaluation of all subfactors hereunder, the Technical factor

will receive and overall rating of either “Acceptable,” or “Unacceptable” using the rating and

descriptions in the table below: The Government’s technical evaluation team shall evaluate the

technical proposals on a pass/fail basis, assigning one of the ratings described below for each

subfactor. Any subfactor evaluated as “Unacceptable” will render the entire proposal

unacceptable and, therefore, unawardable. Only those proposals determined to be technically

acceptable, either initially or as a result of discussions, will be considered for award. However,

the offeror is cautioned that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the

initial proposal, as received, without discussion.



Rating Description

Acceptable

Proposal clearly meets the minimum requirements of

the solicitation.

Unacceptable

Proposal does not clearly meet the minimum

requirement of the solicitation.



The proposals shall be evaluated against the following technical subfactors:

Subfactor 1- Configuration Capability (SOW Paragraph 1.2 through 1.2.8)



Description: This subfactor will assess the offeror’s software configuration capability as demonstrated by the contractor.

Measure of Merit: This subfactor is met when the offeror’s proposed COTS EVM Software provides all configurability components identified in SOW Paragraph 1.2 through 1.2.8.  Failure of 1 or more components deems subfactor as Unacceptable and therefore, unawardable.



Subfactor 2: Base Network Compliant COTS EVM Software

Description: This subfactor will assess the offeror’s proposed COTS Software to comply with requirements to add software to the LAAFB Base Network.

Measure of Merit: This subfactor is met when the offeror’s proposed COTS EVM Software is Approved by the 61st Air Base Group Communications Squadron.  Compliance will be determined through use of  SOW Appendix A, Pre-Certification Checklist/Flow Chart for Adding Software.  The decision of  the 61st Communications Squadron is final and shall provide grounds for a protest.



FACTOR 2 - Past Performance:

The Past Performance evaluation results in an assessment of the offeror’s probability of meeting

the solicitation requirements. Offerors must receive a past performance rating of “Acceptable”

to be eligible for award.  The Past Performance factor will receive one of the ratings described in the below:

Rating Description

Acceptable -  Based on the offeror’s performance record, the Government has a reasonable  expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort, or the offeror’s performance record is unknown. (See note below.)



Unacceptable -  Based on the offeror’s performance record, the Government has no reasonable expectation that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.



NOTE: In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv)). Therefore, the offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, “unknown” shall be considered “acceptable”.



There are two aspects of the past performance evaluation. The first is to evaluate whether the

offeror’s present/recent record of performance is relevant to the effort to be acquired. The second

aspect of the past performance evaluation is the “Performance Quality Assessment” to determine

how well the contractor performed on present/recent relevant efforts. In conducting the Past

Performance evaluation, the Government reserves the right to use both the information provided

in the offeror’s Past Performance proposal volume and information obtained from other sources

available to the Government, to include, but not limited to: the Past Performance Information

Retrieval System (PPIRS); Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System

(FAPIIS); Electronic Subcontract Reporting System (eSRS), or other databases; and

interviews/questionnaires with Program Managers, Contracting Officers and Fee Determining

Officials, the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), and commercial sources.



Recency Assessment: An assessment of the past performance information will be made to

determine if it is recent. To be recent, the effort must be ongoing or must have been performed

during the past __3__ years from the date of issuance of this solicitation. Past performance

information that fails this condition will not be evaluated.



Relevancy Assessment: The Government will conduct an evaluation of all recent performance

information obtained to determine whether the products provided/services performed under those

efforts relate to the Technical subfactors. For each recent past performance citation reviewed,

the relevance of the work performed will generally be assessed for the Technical subfactors

(however, all aspects of performance that relate to this acquisition may be considered). A

relevancy determination of the offeror’s past performance will be made based upon the

aforementioned considerations, including joint venture partner(s) and major and critical

subcontractor(s). The Government will consider as relevant, contracts that involve performance

of services for configurability of COTS software, and compliance for adding software to a Base Network system, and effectiveness of training and help desk capabilities.  In determining the relevancy of effort performed under individual past performance contracts, the Government will only consider the specific effort or portion consistent with that proposed by the prime, subcontractor or teaming partner. The past performance information forms (PIFs), past performance questionnaires and information obtained from other sources will be used to establish the relevancy of past performance. The Government will use the following relevancy definitions when assessing recent, relevant

contracts:

PAST PERFORMANCE RELEVANCY RATINGS

Rating Definition



Relevant - Present/past performance effort involved similar scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.



Not Relevant - Present/past performance effort involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.



Performance Quality Assessment: The Government will consider the performance quality

(how well the contractor performed on the contracts) of recent, relevant efforts. For each recent,

relevant past performance citation reviewed, the performance quality of the work performed will

be assessed for the Technical subfactors (however, all aspects of performance that relate to this

acquisition may be considered).

The quality assessment may result in positive or adverse findings. Adverse is defined as past

performance information that supports an unsatisfactory rating on any evaluation element or any

unfavorable comment received from sources without a formal rating system. For adverse

information identified, the evaluation will consider the number and severity of the problem(s),

mitigating circumstances, and the effectiveness of corrective actions that have resulted in

sustained improvements. Process changes will only be considered when objectively measurable

improvements in performance have been demonstrated. The Government will use the following quality levels when assessing recent, relevant efforts:

PAST PERFORMANCE QUALITY ASSESSMENT



Quality Assessment/Color Description

Satisfactory - During the contract period, contractor performance is substantially meeting (or substantially met) contract requirements. For any problems encountered, contractor

took effective corrective action.





Unsatisfactory - During the contract period, contractor performance is not substantially meeting (or did not substantially meet) some contract requirements. For problems encountered, corrective

action appeared only marginally effective, not effective, or not fully implemented. Customer involvement was required.



NOT AVAILABLE Quality and/or performance information is not available.



Assigning Ratings: As a result of the relevancy and performance quality assessments of the

recent contracts evaluated, offerors will receive an integrated past performance rating at the

factor level. More recent performance will have a greater impact on the Past Performance rating

than less recent effort.



FACTOR 3 Price: Price proposals will be evaluated for (1) completeness, (2) unbalanced

pricing, (3) reasonableness, and (4) Total Evaluated Price (TEP). Offerors whose price is

determined to be incomplete, unreasonable or unbalanced will not be considered for award.



Completeness: The Government will review the pricing submissions for completeness and

compliance with solicitation clause FAR 52.212-1 and Appendix 1—Additional Instructions to

Offerors.



Unbalanced Pricing: The Government will analyze each proposal to determine whether they

are unbalanced with respect to prices proposed on different Contract Line Items Numbers

(CLIN) for the same or similar services and/or supplies in the same or similar quantities. An offer may be rejected if the Contracting Officer (CO) determines

that the prices are significantly unbalanced or that otherwise unbalanced pricing poses an

unacceptable risk to the Government.



Reasonableness: The offeror’s Price proposal will be evaluated, using one or more of the

techniques defined in FAR 15.404, in order to determine if it is reasonable. For a price to be

reasonable, it must represent a price to the Government that a prudent person would pay in the

conduct of competitive business. Normally, price reasonableness is established through price

analysis techniques as described in FAR 15.404. For additional information see FAR 31.201-3.



Total Evaluated Price (TEP): The Government will add the total price for all options to the

total price for the basic requirement to arrive at a total evaluated price (TEP). The TEP will be

calculated as:

(i) The sum of the extended prices (unit quantity multiplied by unit price) for

Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs) 0001 through 0003 plus the Government inserted amount for CLIN 0004 for the base performance period.  The resulting amount will be the TEP.



PERFORMANCE PERIOD (POP) POP LENGTH CLINS PROPOSED PRICE

Base 12 Months 0001-0003 $300,000.00

CLIN 0004 Government Inserted $10,000

Total Proposed Price for CLINS 0001 – 0004 = $310,000.00

Total Evaluated Price (TEP) $310,000.00



52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2013)

ALTERNATE I (APR 2011)

An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision.

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision:

"Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated.

"Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.  Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C.

395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874.

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals;

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;

FA8601-14-R-0005

Page 128 of 184

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;

(8) FSC 9610, Ores;

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate--

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended.

Sensitive technology--

(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically--

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or

(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act

(50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern--

(1) Means a small business concern--

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

"Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.

Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned--

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation.

Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern--

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

"Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern--

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least

51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

"Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

(b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted electronically on the SAM website.

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-

3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this

offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------.

(Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.)

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply.

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern.

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a

veteran-owned small business concern.

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

(5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern.

Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a womenowned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

(i) It * is, * is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible

under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

(i) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that

are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, a women-owned business concern.  

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:

_____________________________________________

(10) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the

offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.)

(i) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not an emerging small business.

 (ii) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows:

(A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in

the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or

(B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts).

(Check one of the following):

Average Annual

Number of Employees Gross Revenues

___ 50 or fewer ___ $1 million or less

___ 51 - 100 ___ $1,000,001 - $2 million

___ 101 - 250 ___ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million

___ 251 - 500 ___ $3,500,001 - $5 million

___ 501 - 750 ___ $5,000,001 - $10 million

___ 751 - 1,000 ___ $10,000,001 - $17 million

___ Over 1,000 ___ Over $17 million

(11) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.)

(i) General. The offeror represents that either--

(A) It ( ) is, ( ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search Database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or

(B) It ( ) has, ( )( has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has

occurred since its application was submitted.

(ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business

concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ____________.)

(12) Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.)  (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls):

____Black American.

____Hispanic American.

____Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians).

____Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei,Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the

Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru).

____Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal).

____Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.

(d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246--

(1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that--

(i) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and

(ii) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that--

(i) It ( ) has developed and has on file, ( ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and

60-2), or

(ii) It ( ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or

attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on

behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were

made.

(f) Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.)

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products

those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic

end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act--Supplies.”

(2) Foreign End Products:

LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

(List as necessary)

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

(g)(1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)

The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision,

is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan,

Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade

Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act.”

(ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the

clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

 [List as necessary]

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)

or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade

Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products

manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”

Other Foreign End Products:

LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary]

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Canadian End Products:

Line Item No.:

___________________________________________

[List as necessary]

(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

(4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.- made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.

Other End Products

Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only

offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

(1) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and

(2) ( ) Have, ( ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state

antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and

(3) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

(4) [ballot] Have, [ballot] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax

liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code).

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless

excluded at 22.1503(b).)

(1) Listed End Product

Listed End Product ·  Listed Countries of Origin:

 (2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.)

( )(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.

( ) (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly—

(1) ( )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or

(2) ( ) Outside the United States.

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor

if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.)

( ) (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that--

 (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental

purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal

business operations;

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

( ) (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that--

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii));

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the

Government contract; and

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies--

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.)

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).

( ) TIN: --------------------.

( ) TIN has been applied for.

( ) TIN is not required because:

 ( ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States;

( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;

( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.

(4) Type of organization.

( ) Sole proprietorship;

( ) Partnership;

( ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);

( ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt);

( ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local);

( ) Foreign government;

( ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;

( ) Other ----------.

(5) Common parent.

( ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;

( ) Name and TIN of common parent:

Name --------------------.

TIN --------------------.

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874.

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that--

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

(o) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov.

(2) Representation and certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror--

 (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and

(iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates,

the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the

International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf).

(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if—

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision);

and

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

(End of provision)



52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated

acknowledgment of receipt from

SMC/PKO

Attn: Dennis Hass

1483 N. Aviation Blvd

El Segundo CA 90245-2808

Dennis.hass@us.af.mil

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with

the GAO.



1. Contacts, Correspondence, and Communications

a. Point of Contact: Questions or concerns should be addressed to the CO through the POC or directly to the CO via the telephone number or via email. The point of contact (POC) for this acquisition is Rosie Yawn. She may be contacted at (310) 653-5371 or via email at rosie.yawn@us.af.mil.The Contracting Officer (CO) for this acquisition is Dennis Hass. He may be contacted at (310) 653-6119 or via email at dennis.hass@us.af.mil. Be advised that all correspondence sent via email shall contain a subject line that reads “FA2816-14-T-0001, EVM Software ” Note that email filters at Los Angeles AFB are designed to filter emails without subject lines or with suspicious subject lines or contents (i.e., .exe or .zip files).  Therefore, if this subject line is not included, the email may not get through the email filters. Also be advised that .zip or .exe files are not allowable attachments and may be deleted by the email filters at Los Angeles AFB. If sending attachments with email, ensure only .PDF, .doc, or .xls documents are sent. The email filter may delete any other form of attachments. Hard copy proposals and electronic copies prepared in accordance with (IAW) section 3 below are required and shall be mailed to:

SMC/PKO

ATTN: Rosie Yawn

1483 N Aviation Blvd

El Segundo CA 90245-2808

b. Notifications to Unsuccessful Offerors/Debriefings: The CO will notify unsuccessful

offerors IAW FAR 15.503 and conduct pre-award and post award debriefings, if

requested IAW FAR 15.505 and 15.506, respectively.

c. Discrepancies: Offers must conform to all of the requirements of the solicitation. If an

Offeror believes that the any part of the solicitation including but not limited to the

requirements in these instructions contain an error, omission, or are otherwise unsound,

the offeror shall immediately notify the CO in writing directly or through the POC

identified herein, per section 2(a) of these instructions. The offeror is reminded that the

Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial offer, as received,

without discussion. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions

if determined necessary by the CO.



2. Offer Format and Organization

a. The offer shall consist of three separate volumes as specified in the Offer Format and Organization Table below. The volume numbers, titles, and contents shall be as specified in this table. The offeror shall submit the specified number of copies of each volume, which shall be within the specified page limits per the table below. Pricing information shall be addressed ONLY in the Price & Offer Documentation Volume. The

Government will remove and discard any pages from any other volume that contains

pricing data and the information on those pages will not be evaluated.



Offer Format and Organization Table



VOLUME	VOLUME TITLE	PAPER COPIES	PAGE LIMIT

     I 		Technical Original 	+ 1 copy		N/A

		EVM Software	+1 Copy		2 copies

Original	

    

     II 		Past Performance	+1 copy		5 Instances 

Original 					3 pages each

     

     III		Price & Offer		+1 copy		N/A

Documentation

Original 



b. Electronic Copies:

The content and page size of electronic copies must be identical to the hard copies. For

electronic copies, indicate on each CD the volume number and title. Use separate files to permit rapid location of all portions, including subfactors, exhibits, annexes, and

attachments, if any. The offeror shall submit volumes __I__ through _III___ in

electronic format, using recordable CDs. Each volume shall be in a different directory on

a CD. If files are compressed, the necessary decompression program must be included.

In the event that hard copies and electronic copies of a proposal are submitted and if there are any discrepancies between the hard copies and the electronic copies of the proposal, the hard copies will be used for evaluation. For Volume III, submit the completed Pricing Exhibit, as a Microsoft Excel file on the CD. Ensure the Microsoft Excel file is not “Read Only” so the CO/buyer can verify the offeror’s calculations.

c. Page Limitations: Page limitations shall be treated as maximums. If exceeded, the

pages in excess of the above limitations will be removed and disregarded during the

evaluation. When both sides of a sheet display printed material, it shall be counted as 2

pages. Each page shall be counted except the following: Covers, tab dividers, title

pages, glossaries, and tables of contents.

d. Page Size and Format:

i. Page size shall be 8.5 x 11 inches, not including foldouts. Pages shall be singlespaced.  Except for the reproduced sections of the solicitation document, the text size shall be no less than the equivalent of Times New Roman, font size 12. Use at least one (1) inch margins on all four sides of the printed page. Pages in each volume shall be numbered sequentially by volume, i.e. I-1, I-2, etc.

ii. Legible tables, charts, graphs and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict

organizations, systems and layout, implementation schedules, plans, etc. These displays shall be uncomplicated, legible and shall not exceed 11 by 17 inches in size. Foldout pages shall fold entirely within the volume and count as a single page. Foldout pages may only be used for large tables, charts, graphs, diagrams and schematics - not for pages of text.

e. Cross-Referencing: To the greatest extent possible, each volume shall be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with a minimum of cross

referencing to other volumes of the proposal. Information required for proposal

evaluation which is not found in its designated volume will be assumed to have been

omitted from the proposal. Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is permitted

where its use would conserve space without impairing clarity.

f. Binding and Labeling: One copy of each offer volume shall be identified as

“Original.” Each volume of the offer shall be separately bound in a three-ring loose-leaf

binder. A cover sheet shall be bound in each book, clearly marked as to volume number, title, copy number, solicitation identification and the offeror's name. The same

identifying data shall be placed on the spine of each binder.



4. Evaluation Factors and Offer Volume Content

a. FACTOR 1 - Technical:

i. Specificity and Completeness: The technical offer should be specific and complete.

Legibility, clarity and coherence are very important. Your responses to the technical

factor and subfactors will be evaluated in accordance with the addendum to the

solicitation titled Evaluation Factors. All the requirements specified in the solicitation

are mandatory. Except as provided for in paragraph 2c, Discrepancies and paragraph

4(c)(vi) of these instructions, by submission of your offer, you are representing that

your firm will perform all the requirements specified in the solicitation. It is not

necessary or desirable for you to tell us so in the offer. Do not merely reiterate the

objectives or reformulate the requirements specified in the solicitation.

ii. Organization: The Technical Offer shall include a table of contents including a

list of tables, figures and drawings, as applicable. The Technical Offer should also

include a glossary if it will enhance the Government’s ability to understand the offer

and facilitate its evaluation.

iii. Content:

Subfactor 1- Configuration Capability (SOW Paragraph 1.2 through 1.2.8 )

Offeror shall submit a description of how their proposed COTS EVM Software  provides each required capability in SOW paragraphs 1.2 through 1.2.8.  Provide an explanation of the capability and samples to verify how capability works.  During the Government evaluation each Offeror shall be allotted a maximum of two hours (includes loading software on Government Laptop, to demonstrate each capability.  The demonstration shall be exactly that.  Should the Contracting Officer interpret the demonstration to be a “marketing/sales” pitch the demonstration shall be stopped and the Offer determined to be unacceptable.  The Contracting Officer will schedule all demonstrations after the closing date for this solicitation.  

Subfactor 2 – Base Network Compliant COTS EVM Software

Offeror shall describe how they believe their software is compliant with the requirements outlined in SOW Appendix A.  Each offeror shall complete the required portions of Appendix A for submission by the Contracting Officer to 61 CS for evaluation.  Two copies of the proposed software shall be provided with one  copy marked “Original” and 1 copy marked “Copy”.



b. FACTOR 2- Past Performance: In the Past Performance Volume, the offeror shall:

i. Past Performance Information (PPI): Each offeror shall submit a past

performance volume with its proposal, containing past performance information.  The contractor shall submit a maximum of 5 instances of past performance.  Each instance of past performance shall be a maximum of 3 pages and shall include the following as a minimum:



Contract Number

Company/Agency with whom the contract is held

Point of Contact and Position

Telephone and E-Mail of POC

Period of Performance (include all Option periods)

Contract Value (Base and each option, if applicable)

Description of all supplies/services included

Explain how you believe this instance of past performance is relavant to this solicitation



This information is required on the offeror and all subcontractors,

teaming partners, and/or joint venture partners who are proposed to perform 20 percent

or more of the proposed effort based on the total proposed price or perform aspects of the effort the offeror considers critical to overall successful performance. Offerors are

cautioned that the Government will use data provided by each offeror in this volume and

data obtained from other sources in the evaluation of past performance

.

ii. Past Performance Questionnaire: Distribute the Past Performance Questionnaire

to all references identified in the Past Performance Volume.  Questionnaires may also be distributed to the references of subcontractors or teaming contractors when the offeror determines that their performance is relevant. The survey includes detailed instructions for completing and returning the surveys directly to the POC identified in paragraph 2a. Completed surveys are not to be submitted by or routed through the offeror. Surveys received directly from or routed through offerors will not be considered.

iii. Consent/Authorization Letters: Along with the information required in this section,

the offeror shall submit a consent letter executed by each subcontractor, teaming

partner, and/or joint venture partner, authorizing release of adverse past performance

information to the offeror so the offeror can respond to such information. For each

identified effort for a commercial customer, the offeror shall also submit a client

authorization letter, authorizing release to the Government of requested information on

the offeror's performance.

iv. Recent and Relevant Contracts: Submit information in accordance with paragraph 4b(i) above.  Past Performance Information on 5 recent contracts that you consider

most relevant in demonstrating your ability to perform the proposed effort. These

contracts must be an ongoing contract or a contract that has been completed within the

last three years from the date of issuance of the solicitation. Also include information

on 5 recent contracts performed by each of your teaming partners and significant

subcontractors that you consider most relevant in demonstrating their ability to perform

the proposed effort. Include rationale supporting your assertion of relevance. For a

description of the characteristics or aspects the Government will consider in

determining recency and relevance, see Evaluation Factors.

v. Specific Content: Offerors are required to explain what aspects of the contracts are

deemed relevant to the proposed effort and to what aspects of the proposed effort they

relate. This may include a discussion of efforts accomplished by the offeror to resolve

problems encountered on prior contracts as well as past efforts to identify and manage

program risk. Merely having problems does not automatically equate to an

“Unacceptable” Past Performance rating since the problems encountered may have been on a more complex program, or an offeror may have subsequently demonstrated the ability to overcome the problems encountered. The offeror is required to clearly

demonstrate management actions employed in overcoming problems and the effects of

those actions in terms of improvements achieved or problems rectified. This may allow

the offeror to be considered more favorably than without evidence of problem resolution.

For example, submittal of quality performance indicators or other management indicators that clearly support that an offeror has overcome past problems is required. Correlate relevant performance to the solicitation Technical subfactors.

vi. Organizational Structure Change History: Many companies have acquired, been

acquired by, or otherwise merged with other companies, and/or reorganized their

divisions, business groups, subsidiary companies, etc. In many cases, these changes

have taken place during the time of performance of relevant past efforts or between

conclusion of recent past efforts and this source selection. As a result, it is sometimes

difficult to determine what past performance is relevant to this acquisition. To

facilitate this relevancy determination, include in this proposal volume a "roadmap"

describing all such changes in the organization of your company. A pamphlet or

other commercial document describing such reorganizations may suffice. As part of

this explanation, show how these changes impact the relevance of any efforts you

identify for past performance evaluation/performance confidence assessment. Since

the Government intends to consider past performance information provided by other

sources as well as that provided by the offeror(s), your "roadmap" should be both

specifically applicable to the efforts you identify and general enough to apply to

efforts on which the Government receives information from other sources.

vii. In addition to the data provided by each offeror in this part of the proposal, the

Government may use data obtained from other sources (Past Performance

Information Retrieval System, other Government sources, commercial sources, etc.)

in evaluating past performance.

viii. If the offeror does not submit a past performance volume as part of its offer, the

Past Performance evaluation factor will be rated “Unacceptable” and the offer will

subsequently be ineligible for award.

c. FACTOR 3 – Price: In the Price and Offer Documentation Volume, the offeror shall:

i. Provide a cover letter with its Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code, Data

Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number, and Tax Identification number. In the cover letter, provide the name(s), title(s), telephone number(s), email address(es), and fax number(s) of the individual(s) authorized to, make decisions on behalf of the offeror

regarding the offer submitted, negotiate with the Government, and who can obligate the

offeror contractually. Provide in the cover letter a statement that the offer and prices will

remain in effect for 60 days after the date of proposal submission.

ii. Provide a completed copy of EVM Pricing Exhibit.

iii. State all prices in United States Currency.

iv. Provide signed copies of the Standard Form (SF) 30, Amendment of

Solicitation/Modification of Contract for all amendments to the solicitation, if applicable.

v. Provide completed Provisions, Representations, Certifications, Acknowledgements,

and Other Statements of Offerors:

NOTE: It is the offeror’s responsibility to submit with its offer all required

representations, certifications, acknowledgements, and statements required by the

solicitation even if they are not reiterated in this paragraph. The Government’s

preference is that representations and certifications, required by the solicitation, are

completed online. However, if offerors have not completed representations and

certifications required by the solicitation online, they must submit a hardcopy of the

applicable representations and certifications with their proposals in the same form as

incorporated into the solicitation.

vi. Submit any issues the offeror may have with the terms and conditions of the

solicitation or exceptions thereto not previously brought to the attention of the CO per paragraph 2c of these instructions. Offers must conform to all solicitation requirements, including terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements. Failure to meet a requirement may result in an offer being ineligible for award. Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and provide complete accompanying rationale. Each exception shall be

specifically related to each paragraph and/or specific part of the solicitation to which the

exception is taken. Provide rationale in support of the exception and fully explain its

impact, if any, on the performance, schedule, price, and specific requirements of the

solicitation. This information shall be provided in the format and shall include the content

specified in the table below. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the

solicitation may result in the offeror being ineligible for award.

vii. Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and

conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements, in addition to

those identified as evaluation factors or subfactors. Offerors must clearly identify any

exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and provide complete accompanying

rationale. Each exception shall be specifically related to each paragraph and/or specific

part of the solicitation to which the exception is taken. Provide rationale in support of the

exception and fully explain its impact, if any, on the performance, schedule, price, and

specific requirements of the solicitation. 



5. Additional Instructions:

a. Authorized Offeror Personnel:Provide the name, title, and telephone number of the

company/division point of contact regarding decisions made with respect to your

proposal and who can obligate your company contractually. Also, identify those

individuals authorized to negotiate with the Government

b. The provisions at FAR 52.209-7, Information Regarding Responsibility Matters; FAR 52.212-

1—Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items; Attachment 1—Additional Instructions to

Offerors; Attachment 2 –Evaluation of Offers; FAR 52.212-3—Offeror Representations and

Certifications—Commercial Items (Alternate I); and DFARS 252.209-7994—Representation by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law will be physically removed from any resultant award and will be considered incorporated by reference.

                                                          PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE


                           When filled in this document is source selection sensitive information iaw FAR 2.101 & 3.104


 I.  INSTRUCTIONS TO RESPONDENTS: The Operational Contracting Branch at Los Angeles AFB, California solicits your input regarding a contractor
 that has performed services for you in the past or is currently performing services for you. The following questionnaire will be used as part of
 the Government's evaluation of the contractor's proposal for Earned Value Management Software and Training.  Completed questionnaires may be
 mailed, FedExed, faxed or emailed. Email is preferred. If the questionnaire is to be returned via email, convert the completed questionnaire to
 a PDF document and email it to dennis.hass@us.af.mil and or rosie.yawn@us.af.mil.   NOTE: Questionnaires returned via e-mail must contain a
 subject line that reads "FA2816-14-T-0001, LAAFB Earned Value Management (EVM) Software"  Email filters at LAAFB are designed to filter emails
 without subject lines or with suspicious subject lines or contents (i.e., .exe or .zip files).  Therefore, if the prescribed subject line is not
 included or the attachment is not in the PDF format, the e-mail may not get through the email filters.
 The mailing  address is:
 SMC/PKO
 ATTN: Rosie Yawn (Ref: FA2816-14-T-0001)
 1483 N Aviation Blvd
 El Segundo CA 90245-2808

 The fax number is 310-653-6117 (must have "ATTN: Rosie Yawn).

Whether you choose to email, mail, fax, or submit completed questionnaires by other means, they must arrive not later than 1:00P.M.local time,
15 Jan 2014.

Return surveys directly to the point-of-contact identified above.  Do not route completed surveys through the contractor that performed services
for your organization.  Surveys received directly from contractors will not be used in the evaluation.

Your responses should be based on your own knowledge of the contractor’s performance, which may be supplemented by input from others in your
organization with knowledge of the contractor’s performance.  If you need more space than is provided, please attach a separate sheet to the end
of this questionnaire.

Complete a separate questionnaire for each contract the contractor performed for your organization.





II.  RESPONDENT INFORMATION:

      a.  Name of Respondent/Evaluator: ________________________________________

      b.  Name and Address of Respondent’s Organization:

________________________________________________
________________________________________________   ________________________________________________
________________________________________________
________________________________________________

      c.  Organizational Telephone No.: _______________________________________

      d.  Fax Number: _____________________________________________________

      e.  Email Address: ___________________________________________________

      f.  How long were you involved with the contract being evaluated?
_________________________________________________________________________

III.  GENERAL INFORMATION ON CONTRACTOR BEING EVALUATED

      a.  Name of the Firm: ____________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________

      b.  Contract Number or Other Reference Number: ______________________________

      c.  Description of Services Provided:
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
______________________



      e.  Did the contractor provide commercial software that was capable of being configured to meet specific Earned Value Management and
      Schedule requirements?   (   )   Yes         (   )   No
      If you answered no, please explain
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________

      f.  Did you ever have any concerns regarding the contractor's training program for this software? (   )   Yes      (   )   No
      If you answered yes, please explain ______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________

      g.  Did you ever have any concerns regarding the contractor's help desk services?
      (   )   Yes      (   )   No
      If you answered yes, please explain
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________



      h.  On a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the best grade, rate how well the contractor was able to adapt to changes in requirements or guidance,
      correct discrepancies, and/or work with government personnel to appropriately use the EVM software.
      Rating: _____
      If you rated the contractor 3 or less, please explain.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________


      i.  Did you ever not pursue an option year with the contractor?
       (   )   Yes      (   )   No
      If you answered yes, please explain

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________



      j.  Did you ever consider not pursuing an option year with the contractor?
       (   )   Yes      (   )   No
      If you answered yes, please explain

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________





Overall Customer Satisfaction:





1.  On the scale below, circle the number that indicates your organization’s overall satisfaction with the contractor’s performance.


1 – Very dissatisfied
2 – Dissatisfied
3 – Unsure
4 – Satisfied
5 – Very satisfied




Please explain if you circled numbers 1 or 2 above.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________


2.    In a competitive situation, all other factors being equal, would you award this contractor another contract based on their past
performance?           (    )   Yes          (    )   No

Please explain if you answered no above.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________

Additional Comments:    Please feel free to provide any further information not covered in this questionnaire as an attachment that you feel
would help us in evaluating the contractor’s past performance.




________________________________________                 _______________________
TYPED/PRINTED NAME                                 DATE
POSITION TITLE
SIGNATURE

Please accept our sincere appreciation for taking the time to complete this questionnaire.  Your participation will be of great value to us.
STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)

FOR

CONFIGURATION COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES

LOS ANGELES AIR FORCE BASE

EL SEGUNDO, CALIFORNIA

























DATE:  20 Dec 2013















REVISION CONTROL










Table of Contents













































Appendix E - Sample Customer Inquiry Log.............................................................. 29

















	 	Description of Service

The Contractor shall furnish all personnel, equipment, labor, tools, materials, supervision, transportation and other items and services necessary to perform Configuration Computer Programming Services for Los Angeles Air Force Base, El Segundo, California. 



Basic Services

The Contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, vehicles, supervision, and other items and services necessary to perform all Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) Configuration, Installation, and Sustainment tasks and functions for Los Angeles AFB (LAAFB) as defined in this Statement of Work (SOW).  LAAFB includes the main installation at El Segundo, California, Fort Mac Arthur in San Pedro, California, and the geographically separated units located at Schriever Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado and Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico. 



 Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) Configuration

The objective of Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) software is to provide a configurable product which can be used concurrently by multiple users and be configured to meet specific Earned Value Management (EVM) and Schedule requirements. The COTS software tool MUST NOT be a developed custom solution.  The Contractor must own or be an authorized reseller of the COTS software (wInsight software products are not acceptable).  Therefore, the Contractor shall provide a configurable software product that is:



  Relational Database

Capable of gathering integrated data for Earned Value Management, schedule, risk, technical, and financial evaluation using Microsoft Structured Query Language (MS SQL) database (Oracle is optional).  The system architecture shall be Microsoft Windows 7 or later as the operating system with backward compatibility to Windows 7. 



 	Standard Industry Software

Capable of (1) interfacing data with standard industry software tools (EVM Tools: Cobra, MPM, Artemis and Schedule Tools: Microsoft Project, Artemis Views, Open Plan, RTP, Primavera), (2) connecting to various data sources (i.e. Microsoft® Project, Project Server, Excel, PowerPoint, and PDF) via OLE DB and Web Services, (3) integrating and analyzing the consolidation of data, converting it into information that is compatible with the various data sources, (4) receiving XML data from EVM and schedule tools, and (5) Convert native data formats from the EVM and scheduling tools to XML format. 



 	Centralized Project-Related Information 

Capable of (1) integrating cost, schedule, risk, financial, contractual (i.e. Contract Deliverable Requirement List (CDRL), Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) dictionary, and Integrated Master Plan (IMP) and technical information from multiple systems into a consolidated view aggregated for all levels and all stakeholders within and across the contract/program and the PEO portfolio, (2) allowing users to review the contract related document(s), and provide technical requirements such as technical performance measurements (TPM), key performance parameters, EVM data, schedules, and risk management (risk and opportunities).



        Project Schedules and Analyses Integration

Capable of viewing project schedule and performing schedule analyses in accordance with the Planning & Scheduling Excellence Guide (PASEG) .  In addition, the product must be able to: (1) Convert complete schedules (such as critical path and near-critical path views) from applications including MS Project (latest version including Server), ARTEMIS, RTP, Open Plan, or Primavera into the UN/CEFACT Electronic Business XML Schema, (2) Convert from the UN/CEFACT Electronic Business XML Schema into MS Project, and (3) perform Schedule Health Assessment. 

 

 	Configuration

Capable of providing menus and dashboards and must be able to be tailored to meet user needs. Dashboards shall be configured to provide management with real-time reports of summary level information with drill-down capabilities. Capable  of allowing the users to attach notes or documents, spreadsheets, or PDF. Able to sort/filter information by contractor, project/program, organization, acquisition category (ACAT) and consolidate data in a specific portfolio based on the predefined rules.



 	Reports Writer

Capable of providing (1) standard accessible reports using standard report writers (Excel, Crystal, etc.) and (2) is a proprietary report writer, which is similar to the industry standard,  and will not require knowledge of programming languages (such as JAVA, Visual Basic, C++, etc.), and (3) contains Reporting Wizard or set of templates which allows the average user to create, configure and set alerts against any data element allowing decision-makers to manage by exception and set an early warning for any predefined condition.  In addition, the system must provide information to facilitate Government reporting to the OMB. ()



 	EVM and Schedule Metrics

Capable of generating all EVM metrics referenced on the DAU Gold Card . At a minimum, the data shall include CPI, SPI, TCPI, EAC, BEI, and CPLI.  The data shall be available for any point in time over the life of the project, permitting easy drill-down and roll-up capability, and must be able to (1) perform predictive analysis of EAC based on Contractor performance data, risk and schedule analysis, and (2) produce EAC with confidence levels (shown on a S Curve) based on cumulative probability distribution simulations (“Monte Carlo”, “Latin Hypercube” or method of moments, etc.).



 	Generate Standard Government Reports.

Capable of automatically generating and populating fields of standard Government reports (Contract Fund Status Report (CFSR), Cost Performance Report (CPR), Integrated Master Schedule, and Integrated Program Management Report (IPMR)) based on Government Data Item Description (DIDs) . Reports must show financial data (expenditure or obligation) and the remaining amount or outstanding balance of a project. 



	Installation 

The objective of software installation is to have the purchased software (see paragraph 1.2.) installed on a Government server and tested to evaluate its performance.  Software installation will be performed at LAAFB. Therefore the Contractor shall:  



1.3.1.   	Implementation

Install the purchased software in accordance with the attached Pre-Certification Checklist/Flow Charts for Adding Software listed in Appendix A.  Software must pass all checklist requirements in order to be considered for use on the United States Air Force (USAF) network.  To complete the installation, the Contractor shall:



Establish a relational database(s)



Convert all existing SMC contract/programs from wInsight, Excel, XML records into the new software tool (databases)



Establish appropriate security (passwords, user profiles, etc.) access



Develop specific SMC reports (similar to wInsight reports) utilizing software reporting engine. 



Establish/Configure necessary dashboard(s) in accordance with the requirements of sub-paragraph 1.2.5 within this SOW.



In addition, prior to the execution of installation, the Contractor shall provide a Software Implementation Plan to the 61st Communication Squadron point of contacts listed below. Any questions pertaining to the checklist during the pre-award or post-award phase of this acquisition must be addressed to the following:  



Name: 	Mr. John Rojas

Telephone:	310-653-3836

Email:	john.rojas.5.ctr@us.af.mil

or

Name: 	Mr. Michael Cruz

Telephone:	310-653-5806

Email:	Michael.cruz.12@us.af.mil



1.3.2.   	Testing and Evaluation

The Contractor shall test the purchased software after installation on the Government network in accordance with the Pre-Certification Checklist/Flow Charts for Adding Software listed in Appendix A to verify that the purchased software package functions according to the specifications (i.e., paragraph 1.2. and subparagraphs) and to uncover situations that could negatively impact the customer usability and/or maintainability.  The Contractor shall report these situations to include any other issues concerning problems with software installation, hardware, or network within 1 hour of testing to the 61st Communications Squadron to the point of contacts listed above in paragraph 1.3.1.



	Sustainment

The objective of sustainment is to reduce downtime, maintenance cost, and risk while maintaining or increasing software performance.  Sustainment activities will be extended to Schriever Air Force Base in Colorado Springs and Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico.  Therefore the Contractor shall:  



   	Training 

Provide an initial training session within 30 calendar days upon successful software installation. Training will be conducted at LAAFB and must be coordinated with SMC/FMC to schedule and confirm the availability of the LAAFB training facility. A diagram concerning the layout of the training site is found in  (Training Room Layout).  At a minimum all training sessions shall include:



Super User Training.  The contractor shall provide in-depth hands on practical application for Government identified Super Users.  The Super Users will be responsible to provide day-to-day training within their Organizations to reduce contractor required training.



Hands-on practical application for users



An up-to-date Electronic User Manual for every student (normally 18 students per class) on a CD ROM outlining step-by-step instruction.  At minimum the training material must include screen shots for helping users navigate throughout the system to achieve end results (i.e., uploading information, downloading information, and producing reports).  Should changes in the software occur after any group of students are trained, the Contractor shall provide an updated Electronic User Manual for each student that has completed training prior to the software change.



Upon the completion of the initial training session, the Contractor shall conduct, at the Government’s discretion, 5 (five) additional refresher training sessions throughout the contract Year.  Refresher training must be authorized, in writing, by the Contracting Officer at the contractor proposed rate established in Contract CLIN 0004.

  

   	Customer Help Desk

Provide customer support help desk for receiving and resolving customer inquires (i.e., by telephone and email) within 1 hour of notification during core hours (06:00-18:00 Pacific Standard Time).  Inquires that do not allow for a response within core hours must be addressed within 1 hour after the start of the next business day (06:00 Pacific Standard Time).  The contractor shall maintain a log of all inquiries and their status.  See Appendix E, SAMPLE CUSTOMER INQUIRY LOG.  Each Friday, not later than 12:00 PM Pacific Standard Time, the contractor shall submit via e-mail, a copy of the current Inquiry Log.  The last working day of each month the contractor shall submit a Trend Analysis Report of inquiries received and resolution.  The report shall make recommendations for mitigation of recurring inquiries, to include, but not limited to, software changes, refresher training, etc.



   	Resolution

Provide resolution to inquiries within 1 hour during core hours (06:00-18:00 Pacific Standard Time).  If a resolution cannot be provided and further research is needed, the Contractor shall provide the status of the resolution by the end of the next business day and every 48 hours thereafter until resolved. All inquires must be resolved within 7 business days.



   	Maintenance and Updates

Provide modification(s) of the purchased software product after delivery to patch and update, improve performance or other attributes, or adapt the software to a modified environment.  Contractor shall schedule maintenance and updates installation with the Network Control Center (NCC) during core hours (06:00-18:00 Pacific Standard Time).  All maintenance and updates must be accomplished within 7 business days.  



Sanitization

Perform sanitization processes to counter data remanence.  Contractor shall contact the Base Information Assurance Office (BIAO) for sanitization procedures.  In addition, the Contractor shall provide the capability to restore to a previous version of the database that does not contain contaminated data.



   	Licensing

Provide unlimited user licenses that will permit the use of the purchased software by all Government employees, to include Contractors assigned to programs in support of LAAFB worldwide. (The Government anticipates a range of 100-200 personnel within Earned Value Management roles at any given time.)





		Service Summary (SS)

 	General

The Contractor service requirements are summarized into performance objectives that relate directly to mission essential items. Unless indicated elsewhere, these performance objectives will be measured monthly.  The performance threshold briefly describes the minimum acceptable levels of service required for each requirement.  These thresholds are critical to mission success.



  	Performance Evaluation

Performance of a service shall be evaluated to determine whether or not it meets the performance requirements of this contract.  Re-performance of unacceptable services at no additional cost is the preferred course of action when appropriate.  In the case of issued Corrective Action Reports (CARs), the Contracting Officer shall take appropriate measures according to the “Inspection of Services” clause.





 		Government Furnished Property and Services

 		Hazardous Material 

The Contractor shall comply with base Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) regulations for all issues of hazardous material, and ensure storage procedures meet all federal, state, and local requirements. Prior to use on Los Angeles AFB, the Contractor shall provide the Base Hazardous Material Pharmacy, through the Contracting Officer, a list of all hazardous materials the Contractor requests to bring onto Government property and shall provide a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each Hazardous Chemical listed in OSHA Hazard Communication Standard 29 CFR 1910.1200 in accordance with LAAFB Hazardous Material Management.



          Government-Furnished Services

Government-furnished services include services provided by Government activities as well as contracted services.



 	Refuse Collection

Waste generated by the Contractor in performance of the services specified with this SOW shall be deposited in Government dumpsters, excluding hazardous materials the disposal of which shall be in compliance with proper applicable procedures.  The Contractor shall comply with base recycling regulations.



 		General Information

Contractor Personnel

 	Contract Manager

The Contractor shall appoint a Program Manger (PM) to provide daily supervision and quality control, and who shall represent the Contractor and be responsible for the performance of the work throughout the term of the contract.  The name of this person, and an alternate(s) who shall act for the Contractor when the manager is absent, shall be designated in writing to the Contracting Officer (CO) and the Contracting Officer Representative (COR).  The Program Manager (PM) shall be able to speak, read, write, and understand English.  The PM shall be able to effectively communicate with Contractor employees.  



 	Contractor Employees

The Government reserves the right to restrict the employment, under this contract, of any Contractor employee, or prospective Contractor employee who is identified as a potential threat to health, safety, security, general well being, or the operational mission of the installation and its population.  Therefore the Contractor will be required to obtain the following at the Contractor’s own expense:



National Agency Checks (NAC) for all employees unless an employee has a Final Secret Security Clearance.



Annual Visit Request.  Submitted to the SMC/FM Unit Security Manager.  



Employee Training

The Contractor is responsible for all internal employees training at no additional cost to the Government. 



Employee Certifications

The Contractor shall make sure employees have the following current and valid professional certifications before starting work under this contract: 



DoD 8570 Certification (IAT-II or higher level of certification)



Instructions Applicable to Controlled Areas

No Contractor employee shall be authorized unescorted entry to USAF Controlled Areas on LAAFB, through issuance of a permanent USAF Controlled Area Badge (AF Form 1199 CD), unless that employee has been granted a final Secret Security Clearance by the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) except as indicated below.  Within ten calendar days of contract award at LAAFB, the Contractor shall submit the appropriate documents to DISCO, in accordance with the Industrial Security Manual (ISM), DOD 5220.22M, for each employee required to have a Secret security clearance.  A temporary AF Form 1199 CD authorizing unescorted entry to USAF Controlled Areas on LAAFB may be issued to Contractor employees for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days.  The SMC/DS Security Manager will endorse Section II of AF Form 2586 on the following conditions:



The AF Form 1199 CD shall be issued only to a U.S. citizen and be considered temporary unless the Contractor Security Officer notified SMC/DS Security Manager that an interim or final clearance has been granted.  Controlled Area Badges will only be issued to Contractor personnel working on base a minimum of 32 hours per week.  This requirement is in accordance with the Contractor Visitor Security Agreement between SMC/SDAP and base Contractors.  (See SECTION I AF FAR SUPP 5352.204-9001).  The Contractor Security Manager will endorse the request and state the date on which an application was submitted with appropriate documents to DISCO.  The 90-day period shall commence from this date.



The AF Form 1199 CD can be revoked or extended as determined by SMC/DS and/or 61st ABG/SP.  Extensions beyond 120 days will not be approved without prior coordination with the Space and Missile Center Directorate of Security (SMC/SDAP).  Requests for extensions will be initiated by the Contractor in writing and will include full justification.



SMC/SDAP may request the revocation of specific AF Form 1199 CD at any time based on information available to them.



The Contractor will comply with the requirements in paragraph 26d of the ISM when submitting a request for interim clearance.  Should a Contractor employee fail to obtain a final Secret security clearance, the employee's authorization for unescorted entry to USAF controlled areas on LAAFB and the temporary AF Form 1199 CD will be revoked. 



 The Contractor shall request a Secret security clearance only for those employees who will require either access to classified information or unescorted entry to USAF controlled areas on LAAFB.



Government Security Instructions

The Government official designated as having security supervision over all security aspects of this contract, under the provisions of the Industrial Security Manual, is the Space and Missile Center Director of Security.  Any other security requirement not specifically defined in this contract or the Industrial Security Manual will be provided by the SMC Director of Security by written instructions to the Contractor via a Contractor Visitor Group Security Agreement in accordance with paragraph 1-108e, DOD Directive 5220.22R.



 Parking

Contractor employees are not guaranteed to be able to park on LAAFB proper.  In order to park at LAAFB proper, all Contractor employees must follow current LAAFB parking rules.  Contractors that are physically disabled will be permitted to park on LAAFB proper if a state issued Handicapped Parking Permit is displayed in the windshield of the Contractor operated vehicle.



Dress and Appearance

Contractor personnel shall present a clean, neat and professional appearance at all times and be easily recognized as contract employees.   A Contractor provided badge depicting company name, employee’s name, and title shall be worn on the outer clothing on the front of the body between the neck and waist so the badge is visible at all times. No item of military clothing shall be worn as an outer garment.



Employment of Government Employees

The Contractor shall not employ any person who is an employee of the United States Government if the employment of that person would create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, nor shall the Contractor employ any person who is an employee of the Department of the Air Force, either military or civilian, unless such person seeks and receives proper approval from the Government.  The Contractor is cautioned that off-duty active military personnel hired under this contract may be subject to permanent change of station (PCS), change in duty hours, or deployment.  Military reservists and National Guard members may be subject to recall to active duty.  Their absence at any time shall not constitute an excuse for nonperformance under this contract.  The Contractor is prohibited from employing off-duty COR who are managing any contracts or subcontracts awarded to the Contractor.



Hours of Operation

 	Normal Hours of Operation

The Contractor shall perform the services required under this contract Monday - Friday during the following hours of 06:00 – 18:00 Pacific Time.



 	Federal Holidays

The Contractor is not required to provide services on the following federal holidays:



New Year’s Day

Martin Luther King’s Birthday

Presidents Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veterans Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day



If the federal holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it may be observed on Friday or Monday as directed.



 	Performance of Services During Crisis Declared by the National  

Command Authority or Overseas Combatant Commander

According to DoDI 3020.37, Continuation of Essential DoD Contractor Services During Crises, and the Air Force implementation thereof, unless otherwise directed by an authorized government representative, it is determined that Software and Custom Computer Programming Services requirements under this SOW are not essential to be performed during a crisis.



 	Quality Control (QC)

In compliance with the contract clause entitled 52.246-4 Inspection of Services—Fixed-Price, the Contractor shall provide a Quality Control Plan that contains, as a minimum, the items listed in 4.3.1 to the Contracting Officer for acceptance not later than the pre-performance conference. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor of acceptance or required modifications to the plan before the contract start date.  The Contractor shall make appropriate modifications and obtain acceptance of the plan by the contracting officer before the contract start date.  



 	Quality Control Plan (QCP)

The Contractor shall be required to submit a QCP within 30 days from the contract award date.  The Contractor’s quality control plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following items:



A description of the inspection system to cover all services.  Description shall include specifics as to the areas to be inspected on a scheduled and unscheduled basis, frequency of inspections, and the title and organizational placement of the inspector(s).

A description of the methods to be used for identifying and preventing defects in the quality of service performed.

A description of how the records will be kept.  Records must document all inspections and corrective or preventive actions taken.



 	Performance Evaluation Meetings

The Contracting Officer may require the Contract Manager to meet at least weekly with the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and the Contracting Officer during the first month of the contract. Meetings will be as often as necessary thereafter as determined by the Contracting Officer.  However, if the Contractor requests, a meeting will be held whenever a Corrective Action Report (CAR) is issued.  The Contract  Manager, Contracting Officer, and COR shall sign the Contract Administrator’s written minutes of these meetings.  Should the Contractor not concur with the Contractor Administrator's minutes, the Contractor shall so state any areas of non-concurrence in writing to the Contracting Officer within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the signed minutes. If the Contractor does not submit a non-concurrence within this time period, minutes are deemed agreed to by both parties.



 	Government Quality Assurance 

According to the Inspection of Services clause (52.246-4 Inspection of Services—Fixed-Price), the Government will evaluate the Contractor's performance under this contract.  Government personnel will record all surveillance observations.  When an observation indicates defective performance, the COR will require the contract manager or representative at the site to initial the observation.  The initialing of the observation does not necessarily constitute concurrence with the observation, only acknowledgment that he or she has been made aware of the defective performance.  Government surveillance of tasks not listed in the SOW or by methods other than those listed in the SOW (such as provided for by the Inspection of Services clause) may occur during the performance period of this contract.  Such surveillance will be done according to standard inspection procedures or other contract provisions.  Any action taken by the Contracting Officer as a result of surveillance will be according to the terms of this contract.



Quality Assurance

The Government will periodically evaluate the Contractor’s performance in accordance with the Performance Plan.  The Government may inspect each task as completed and increase the number of quality assurance inspections if deemed appropriate because of repeated failures discovered during surveillance inspections or because of repeated customer complaints.  Likewise, the Government may decrease the number of quality assurance inspections if performance dictates.  The Government shall also receive and investigate complaints from customers.  The Contractor shall be responsible for initially validating customer complaints; however, the Government representative shall make the final determination of the validity of customer compliant (s) in the cases of a disagreement between the Contractor and the customer.



Contracting Officer Representatives (COR)

COR are representatives of the Contracting Officer and will participate in the administration of this contract.  Subsequent to contract award, the Contractor will be provided with a letter identifying COR and setting forth their duties and authorities.



Discrepancy Notification

COR will inform the Contractor PM (or authorized representative) when discrepancies occur and will request corrective action.  COR will make a notation of the discrepancy on their surveillance checklist with the date and time the discrepancy was noted and will request the Contractor PM (or authorized representative) to initial the entry on the checklist.



Scope Changes

Any matter concerning a change to the scope, prices, terms or conditions of this contract shall be referred to the Contracting Officer and not COR.



  Administrative Records

All records, documents, and associated papers provided by the Government and generated during the period of this contract become Government property and will remain in place upon contract termination or completion.  During the period of the contract, records, documents, and associated papers shall be available for review.



 Phase Out

If the contracted operation reverts to in-house operations, the Contractor shall cooperate with SMC/FMCE personnel to ensure an orderly change over.  In the event a follow-on contract is awarded to other than the incumbent, the incumbent Contractor shall cooperate to the extent required to permit an orderly transition to the successful Contractor.  Recruitment notices may be placed in each facility to allow successor Contractor's access to incumbent employees.


APPENDICES



Pre-Certification Checklist/Flow Chart for Adding Software

Training Room Layout

Acronyms, Abbreviations and Definitions

Applicable Publications and Forms

Sample Customer Inquiry Log

































Appendix A – Pre-Certification Checklist/Flow Chart for Adding Software











 

Appendix B – Training Room Layout





 




Appendix C - Acronyms, Abbreviations and Definitions

Acronyms

ACAT – Acquisition Category

BEI – Baseline Execution Index

CDRL – Contract Deliverable Requirement List

CFSR – Contract Fund Status Report

CPI – Cost Performance Index

CPLI – Critical Path Length Index

CPR – Cost Performance Report

DID Forms – Data Item Description

EAC – Estimate At Complete

EVM – Earned Value Management

IAT = Information Assurance Technical

IAM = Information Assurance Management

IMP – Integrated Master Plan

IMS – Integrated Master Schedule

MPM – Microframe Program Manager

OLE_DB – Object Linking and Embedding Database

OMB – Office of Management and Budget

PEO – Program Executive Office

PDF – Portable Document Form

RTP – Real Time Projects 

SPI – Schedule Performance Index

SMC/FMC – Space and Missile Center Financial Management Cost 

TCPI – To Complete Performance Index

WBS – Work Breakdown Structure

XML – Extensible Markup Language



Definitions



Business Day:  Days Monday – Friday (06:00-18:00) that are not on a Federal Holiday. 



Dashboard: is a user interface that organizes and presents information in a way that is easy to read.



Drill-Down:  (verb) is to focus in on something (e.g. moving down through a hierarchy of folders, files, or specific data) to obtain precise information.  Allows the user to navigate among levels of data ranging from the most summarized to the most detailed level.



Menu:  is a set of options presented to the user of a computer application to help the user find information or execute a program function.



Roll-Up:  (verb) is to focus in on something (e.g. moving up through a hierarchy of folders, files, or specific data) to obtain precise information.  Allows the user to navigate among levels of data ranging from the most detailed to the most summarized level.


Appendix D - Applicable Publications and Forms

Publications (to include their supplements at any organizational level) and forms that apply to this SOW are listed below.  The publications and forms have been coded as mandatory or advisory.  The Contractor is obligated to follow those publications and use those forms coded as mandatory to the extent specified in other sections of this SOW.  The Contractor shall be guided by those publications or use those forms coded advisory to the extent necessary to accomplish requirements in this SOW.  All publications and forms listed shall be made available by the Government at the start of the contract.  Supplements or amendments to listed publications from any organizational level may be issued during the life of the contract.  The Contractor shall immediately implement those changes that result in a decrease or no changes in the contract price and notify the Contracting Officer in writing of such changes.  Before implementing any change that will result in an increase in contract price, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a price proposal within 30 calendar days following receipt of the change by the Contractor.  The Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall negotiate the change into the contact under the provisions of the contract clause entitled “Changes”.  Failure of the Contractor to submit a price proposal within 30 calendar days following receipt of the change entitles the Government to performance according to such change at no increase in contract price (unless the time requirement is waived by the Contracting Officer according to Paragraph C of the changes clause).



ATTACHMENT 1

SAMPLE CUSTOMER INQUIRY LOG







Revision Number

Date

Remarks

Basic

20 Dec 2013

This is the initial publication of the Configuration Computer Programming Services Statement of Work (SOW). 









Category

SS

Performance Objective

SOW Section

Performance Threshold

Schedule

1

Respond to inquiries (i.e. by telephone or email) (Pacific Standard Time). 

1.4.2.



Within 1 hour (60 mins.)  of notification during core hours (06:00- 1800) or 1 hour after the start of the next business day for noncore hour problems.

Quality of Product or Service

2

Provide modification(s) of the purchased software product after delivery to patch and update, improve performance or other attributes, or adapt the software to a modified environment.  

1.4.4.

Maintenance and updates must be accomplished within 7 business days of the publication.  



UN/CEFACT

– United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business



Publication

SOW Paragraph

Applicability

Planning & Scheduling Excellence Guide – Jan-Feb 2012 – Mandatory



1.2.4.

Guidance on Exhibit 300-Planning, Budgeting, Acquisition, and Management of Information Technology Capital Assets – Mandatory



1.2.6.

Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Gold Card, Side 1 and 2 – July 2012 – Mandatory



1.2.7.

DI-MGMT-81468 – CFSR DID Form – 19 Oct 1995 – Mandatory



1.2.8.

DI-MGMT-81466, Base Document and Revision A – CPR DID Form – 30 Mar 2005 and 10 Oct 1995 – Mandatory



1.2.8.

DI-MGMT-81650 – IMS DID Form – 30 Mar 2005 – Mandatory



1.2.8.

DI-MGMT-81861 – IPMR DID Form – 20 Jun 2012 – Mandatory



1.2.8.

Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) – Mandatory

FAR 31.205-46--Travel Cost

1.5.1.

Joint Travel Regulation (JTR) – Mandatory

Volume 2, DoD Civilian Personnel, Appendix A (JTR)

1.5.1.



DATE RCVD

TIME RCVD

KTR TRACKING NO.

INQUIRY

METHOD OF RECEIPT

NAME INDIV. SUBMITTING INQUIRY WITH OFFICE SYMBOL

RESOLUTION ACTION

DATE OF RESOLUTION

KTR POC

STATUS OPEN/CLOSED



































































































