
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
                                                       NATIONAL MILK DRUG RESIDUE DATABASE


                                                 Section B – Supplies or Services and Price/Cost

B-1 – Background and Objectives

In performing the work as described in detail in Section C-1 – Scope of Work, the Contractor shall consider the following:

a. Background

The Food and Drug Administration and the states share responsibility for assuring that the nation's milk supply is safe and not contaminated
with harmful drug residues.  This task is accomplished through a cooperative agreement between FDA and the states under the National Conference
on Interstate Milk Shipments (NCIMS).

The National Milk Drug Residue Database was implemented in cooperation with the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments, an
organization of state officials responsible for the Grade A fluid milk production in this country.  The contract is part of an effort to improve
control over drug residues in the milk supply and to be able to demonstrate the amount and results of collective industry and government milk
testing.

b. Objectives

The objective of this contract is to maintain the existing database that consists of the results of testing of milk samples for drug residues by
the industry, and by state and federal agencies. The data will include information on the source of samples, when analyses were conducted,
numbers of analyses, methods used, and results by drug and methods.  The data will be recorded, summarized, and distributed to interested
parties.  The contractor will continue to respond to technical inquiries, and prepare and distribute the reports.

The specific objectives are to:

   l. Maintain the reporting system and database to record and compile the data and provide data coding and system  requirements information to
      possible participants;

   2. Receive data from participants by a variety of mechanisms (magnetic, electronic, hard copy, etc.);

   3. Incorporate data into the system employing appropriate methods to insure data quality;

   4. Prepare and distribute electronic reports (preferably), annually, to FDA and a mailing (email) list that is to be maintained by the
      contractor;

   5. Provide guidance and interpretation to data submitters on the technical aspects of the data and on reporting and coding of data elements;

   6. Promote the system to possible participants and provide  information on the system's requirements and benefits;

   7. Respond to technical inquiries and provide information on the operation of the system, in consultation with the FDA;

   8. Recommend new or modified data elements for incorporation into the system as may be appropriate to refine the overall quality and
      consistency of the data and reports;

   9. Upon request from the COR, the contractor will prepare intermittent reports, (maximum of four per fiscal year).


B-2 - Estimated and Allowable Costs

    a. The estimated cost of the work under this contract is $___________.  Subject to the provisions of the clauses entitled “Limitation of
       Cost” and “Allowable cost and Payment” in Section I, the total of the allowable cost and fixed fee of this contract shall not exceed
       $___________.

    b. Payment of the fixed fee, if any, shall be made in periodic installments based on the ratio of costs incurred to the total estimated cost
       set forth in the contract.  In making such periodic payments, there shall be withheld fifteen percent (15%) from each payment.  Amounts
       so withheld shall be paid upon execution and delivery of a release by the Contractor as provided by the applicable provisions of this
       contract.

    c. Domestic Travel Allowance: Total expenditures for domestic travel (transportation, lodging, meals, and incidental expenses) not to exceed
       $_______ incurred in direct performance of this contract shall be allowed upon advanced Government approval and based on the current
       Federal Travel Regulations.

    d. Indirect Cost Rates: The Contractor shall be reimbursed for indirect costs on the basis of the negotiated rates set forth in the schedule
       (f) below.  The rates are fixed for the duration of this contract.  The indirect costs shall be calculated as follows:

           Fringe Benefits: % of Direct Labor
           Labor Overhead:  % of Direct Labor + FB
           G&A:  % of Total Direct + Overhead

    e. Property Ceiling – Research Work; Notwithstanding clause entitled “Subcontracts Time & Material and Labor Hour Contracts” in Section I of
       this contract, any equipment having a unit acquisition cost in excess of $5,000.00, which the Contractor is to be reimbursed as a direct
       item of cost, shall not be acquired by the Contractor without the specific advance written approval of the Contracting Officer.

   f. Schedule


   |Base Period             |Period of Performance:  3/1/2013 to 2/28/2014                                                                 |
|Total Price             |Travel               |Fringe Benefits                |Labor Overhead                |G&A                     |
|$                       |$                    |________%                      |________%                     |________%               |

|Option Year 1            |Period of Performance:  3/1/2014 to 2/28/2015                                                                |
|Total Price              |Travel              |Fringe Benefits                |Labor Overhead                 |G&A                    |
|$                        |$                   |________%                      |________%                      |________%              |

|Option Year 2            |Period of Performance:  3/1/2015 to 2/28/2016                                                                |
|Total Price              |Travel              |Fringe Benefits                |Labor Overhead                 |G&A                    |
|$                        |$                   |________%                      |________%                      |________%              |

|Option Year 3            |Period of Performance:  3/1/2016 to 2/28/2017                                                                |
|Total Price              |Travel              |Fringe Benefits                |Labor Overhead                 |G&A                    |
|$                        |$                   |________%                      |________%                      |________%              |

|Option Year 4            |Period of Performance:  3/1/2017 to 2/28/2018                                                                |
|Total Price              |Travel              |Fringe Benefits                |Labor Overhead                 |G&A                    |
|$                        |$                   |________%                      |________%                      |________%              |



   g.       The estimated cost of the work under this contract (base and option years) is $___________.  Subject to the provisions of the clauses
        entitled “Limitation of Cost” and “Allowable cost and Payment” in Section I, the total of the allowable cost and fixed fee of this
        contract (base and option years) shall not exceed $___________.




B-3 – Provisions Applicable to Direct Costs (Commercial and Nonprofit Organizations with Fixed Fee)

Notwithstanding the clauses entitled “Allowable Cost and Payment” and “Fixed Fee” in Section I, unless otherwise expressly provided elsewhere in
this contract or in any amendment thereto, the cost of the following items or activities shall be unallowable as direct costs:
       A. Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property;
       B. Special rearrangement or alteration of facilities;
       C. Purchase or lease of any item of general purpose office furniture of office equipment;
       D. Travel to foreign countries




























                                               Section C – Description/Specification/Work Statement

C-1 – Scope of Work

Independently and not as an agent of the Federal government, the Contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel, materials, services,
facilities, and otherwise do all things necessary for or incident to the performance of the work as described below:


A.  Description of the National Milk Drug Residue Database


This database is intended to capture milk testing results from as many sources as possible in order  to  fully  reflect  the  monitoring  of  the
nations fluid milk supply for animal drug residues.  The responsibilities for data submission will be with the states.

Grade A raw, manufacturing grade, and pasteurized fluid milk tested for animal drug residues will be included in  the  system.   Other  processed
dairy product test results are outside the scope of this project at this time and will not be included in the database.  Data on  microbiological
findings, and tests for other contaminants, such as pesticides or industrial chemicals, will not be included in the database.

Animal drug analytical data for milk may be available from several sources.  The industry testing is accomplished on milk from several points  in
the farm to retail chain, e.g., milk sampled from a producer, bulk farm tank truck, holding  tank,  or  finished  product.   Regulatory  agencies
(state and FDA) also analyze samples to monitor the milk supply.  Thus, milk may be tested several times by owners  or  agencies,  using  varying
methods, for multiple purposes.  Data on all of these drug residue tests will be included in the database.

If drug residues are found, additional samples may be analyzed.  Multiple reporting of samples  from  milk  found  positive  for  residues  could
result in a significant distortion of the data, and should be avoided in the database without additional identification.   The  contractor  shall
develop a mechanism to attempt to assure that positive findings on the same lot or load are identified as subsequent tests. This may  necessitate
the assignment of sample numbers.  Guidelines on how positive will be reported will be needed.  It  should  be  recognized  that  some  duplicate
testing of negative samples will be included in the data since the same loads may be  tested  by  both  regulatory  agencies  and  industry  with
results reported separately in some instances.

The NCIMS and state requirements implement a testing and record keeping system.  Under Appendix N of the  Pasteurized  Milk  Ordinance,  positive
industry findings must be reported to the state regulatory agency. Problem #313 passed by the 1991 Conference necessitated an  amendment  to  the
NCIMS Procedures II, III, & V as well as the MMSR to require reporting of residue test results to a third party database.  Reporting of all  data
will be facilitated by the government agencies and major industry components to assure participation and meaningful  data.   Many  firms  in  the
milk industry are members of large national associations, such as the Milk Industry  Foundation  and  the  National  Milk  Producers  Federation.
These groups are also in a position to facilitate reporting by their members.  The contractor shall develop mechanisms to  expedite  test  result
reporting.

The industry data will be reported to the state regulatory agency for compilation and submission to the  contractor  on  a  monthly  basis.   The
state regulatory agencies are to report their data to the contractor within 30 days after the end  of  the  month.   States  will  simultaneously
report their sample analysis results.  While the numbers of sample results will be significant in some reports, the state's  compilation  of  the
findings will minimize data entry efforts by the contractor.


B. Data Elements


The data has been kept to a minimum to facilitate data compilation and reporting by all parties.  While the identification  of  individual  loads
or lots sampled, producers, or firms may be recorded by the state regulatory agency, this information is not included in the database.

The database shall include the following types of information:

1. identification of state where milk sampled;
2. source of the analytical findings, e.g., industry or regulatory agency;
3. source of sample, e.g., bulk milk pickup, over the road tanker, co-mingled at a receiving station, co-mingled at a processor, finished
product;
4. month and year in which analyses are conducted;
5. total number of samples examined, (both negative and positive);
6. analytical results:
      a. total number analyzed by method for each drug/class
      b. total positive by method for each drug/class
      c. number of check assays by method for each drug/class.
7. disposition of positive load or lot and pounds of milk.

Both drug classes, e.g., sulfonamides, and specific drugs within that  class,  e.g.,  sulfamethazine,  are  included  in  the  list  of  reported
drugs/classes.  A drug residue will only be reported in one category, e.g. if sulfamethazine is confirmed it would be reported  as  the  specific
drug, not as the sulfonamide class.

The drugs/classes that will be reported to the database include those detected by the analytical methods being used. The data  include,  but  are
not limited to, drug classes such as beta lactams, tetracyclines, sulfonamides, and aminoglycosides;  the  specific  drugs  such  as  penicillin,
ampicillin, sulfamethazine, gentamicin, novobiocin chloramphenicol, etc.; or other inhibitors.

Several analytical methods are used for testing milk, ranging from screening tests that report classes of drugs at varying levels  of  detection,
to sophisticated (and expensive) gas chromatograph (GC) with mass spectrometry (MS) analyses that quantify specific drug  residues  at  very  low
levels.

The analytical methods and drugs detected will likely continue to evolve, e.g., new methods will be developed  and  drugs  included,  which  will
necessitate adjustments in the data reporting requirements and summaries developed for this contract.  The system should be able  to  accommodate
these changes.

The disposition of milk with positive test results will be reported by indicating the number of lots and total pounds positive,  and  whether  or
not the lots were disposed of to non-human food channels.  The type of disposition will not be recorded.


C. System Operations


The contractor shall accomplish the following during routine system operation:

1. Furnish all participants with copies of program instructions and materials, including code lists and data entry procedures, and update this
information as necessary;

2. Receive and enter the data, which may involve manual data entry from hard copy.  For manually entered data, use a quality control mechanism
to insure the accuracy of the data entry;

3.  Assist data submitters as necessary;

4. Prepare and distribute intermittent and annual reports as described in Section F - Reports/Deliverables;

5. Review reports prior to distribution to detect obvious data errors, or reporting a residue by a method that can't detect that drug.  The
contractor shall resolve apparent errors by contacting the submitting unit to verify and correct data submissions;

6. Refer requests for assignment of new codes based upon FDA's systems to the COR;

7. Include provisions for preventing access to data by unauthorized parties (password security), maintaining backups to the data, providing
suitable operating environment for the equipment to be used, and employing quality assurance procedures on the data included in the reports.

Performance Standard: In accordance with contract requirements, the contractor shall, (1) submit  quarterly  technical  progress  reports  thirty
(30) calendar days after each quarterly reporting period, and (2) complete the Annual Reports no later than one hundred thirty-eight  days  after
the end of the Government’s fiscal year, i.e., by February 15, 2004 and February 15, 2005.

Performance Measurement: The Government will measure compliance with contract  requirements  by,  (1)  review  of  quarterly  technical  progress
reports, and (2) review of the Annual Reports to verify that the required data and information are complete and accurate.

Deduction:  If FDA finds an Annual Report to be unacceptable, the contractor shall be advised and given the opportunity to  correct  the  report.
If the contractor fails to correct the Annual Report, the withholding of 15% of the fee will occur until the correction is  made,  received,  and
accepted by FDA.


D. Special Requests for Data


Consult with the COR before complying with any requests for intermittent reports that are not routinely prepared under  the  contract.   The  COR
will provide instructions on fulfillment of special requests to the  contractor's  Project  Director.   When  authorized,  the  contractor  shall
respond to the special requests to the extent that cumulative costs for implementation do not exceed ten (10%) of the  total  estimated  cost  of
the contract.  If the ten percent level will be exceeded, the contractor shall not proceed, but shall discuss the situation with the  Contracting
Officer.


E. Disposition of Data


All data received by the contractor, and all reports prepared will remain the property of the government.  All data received  shall  be  retained
and archived by the contractor for the duration of the project, and shall be furnished to the government upon request of the COR.

                                                        Section D – Packaging and Marking

This section is not applicable to this solicitation/contract.


                                                      Section E – Inspection and Acceptance

E-1 - Inspection and Acceptance

Pursuant to the appropriate inspection clause as provided below, final inspection and acceptance of all items called for by this contract shall
be made by the FDA Contracting Officer at the Food and Drug Administration, OAGS, DASG, HFA-500, 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 2116, Rockville,
Maryland 20857.

E-2 - FAR 52.246-5, Inspection of Services - Cost-Reimbursement (APR 1984)

(a) Definition. “Services,” as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or used in performing
services.

(b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the services under this contract.
Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract
performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires.

(c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times
during the term of the contract. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.

(d) If any of the services performed do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the
services again in conformity with contract requirements, for no additional fee. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by
reperformance, the Government may—

      (1) Require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements; and
      (2) Reduce any fee payable under the contract to reflect the reduced value of the services performed.


(e) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or take the action necessary to ensure future performance in conformity with
contract requirements, the Government may—

      (1) By contract or otherwise, perform the services and reduce any fee payable by an amount that is equitable under the circumstances; or


                                                      Section F – Deliveries or Performance

F-1 – Reports/Deliverables

The contractor shall submit the following reports/deliverables:

A.  Quarterly Technical Progress Report

The Contractor shall prepare a progress report summarizing the activities of the project for each quarter.  This report shall include:


1. A quantitative description of overall progress in sufficient detail to comprehensively explain progress to date;

2. An indication of any current problems which may impede performance, and proposed corrective action; and

3. A discussion of the work to be performed during the next reporting period;

The Technical Progress Report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer thirty (30) calendar days following each quarterly reporting period.

B.  Intermittent Reports

Intermittent reports will only be prepared by the contractor upon request by the COR for internal FDA use only.  These reports will be for non-
regulatory purposes to determine trends if proper tests are performed when a change in test protocols are made.  A maximum of four intermittent
reports will be requested in any one fiscal year.  The intermittent reports will contain only the data that the contractor currently has in
house.  (Only on rare occasions will a follow-up be needed to request a large data state that had not yet reported is required.)

C. Annual Summary Report

The annual reports include data received by the Contractor during federal fiscal years (Oct 1st through September 30th). The reports shall be
submitted after the end of the fiscal years by February 15th  which is approximately 4.5 months after the end of the Government’s fiscal year
close date.


The Annual Data Reports shall portray findings on a national basis, and include information on the numbers of contributors, states represented,
total samples, positive findings, and a discussion of the disposition of milk found with excessive residues.

Further, a discussion will be included on key residue findings, trends in the residues found or methods being used, summarization of disposition
of milk with residues, identifying states and number of months of data that are not included in the annual reports, etc.

D.  Delivery Instructions For Annual Reports

The Contractor shall prepare and distribute the annual reports to states, industry, academia, and other recipients on a mailing list that has
been established by the contractor with input from FDA.

In addition, copies for FDA shall be delivered as follows:

      One Copy to:

                 DHHS/FDA/OAGS/DASG
                 State Contracts Branch, HFA-500
                 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 2129
                 Rockville, Maryland 20857

      One Copy to:

                 Food and Drug Administration
           Office of Partnerships (formerly known as Division of Federal-State Relations)
                 12420 Parklawn Dr., Room 3019
                 Rockville, Maryland 20857

      Two Copies to:

                 DHHS/FDA
                 Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition
                 Milk Safety Branch, HFS-626
                 5100 Paint Branch Parkway
                 College Park, MD 20740-3835

      Two Copies to:

                 DHHS/FDA
                 Center for Veterinary Medicine, HFV-500
                 Office of Research, HFV-500
                 7500 Standish Place
                 Rockville, Maryland 20855


F-2 – Period of Performance

Performance of this contract shall be for a 12 month base year and 4 option years.


                                                     Section G – Contract Administration Data

G-1 – Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR):

The Government administrative and technical personnel assigned responsibilities for this contract are as follows:

COR:                   TBD

G-2 - Technical Monitoring

A.  Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical monitoring of the COR. The term "technical monitoring" is
   defined to include the following:

   1. Technical directions to the Contractor which shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks which serve to accomplish the contractual
   scope of work;


   2. Providing information to the Contractor for assistance in the interpretation of drawing, specification or technical portions of the work
   description; and


   3. Review and, where required by the contract, approval of technical reports, drawings, specifications and technical information to be
   delivered by the Contractor to the Government under the contract.

B.  Technical direction must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract.  The COR does not have the authority to, and may not
   issue any technical direction which (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the contract, (ii)
   constitutes a change as defined in the contract clause entitled "Changes," (iii) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the total
   estimated contract cost, the fixed fee, or the time required for the contract performance, or (iv) changes any of the expressed terms,
   conditions, or specifications of the contract.

C.  All technical directions shall be issued in writing by the COR or shall be confirmed by him/her in writing within five (5) working days
   after issuance.

D.  The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical directions duly issued by the COR in the manner prescribed by this
   article and within his/her authority under the provisions of this provision.

E.    If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COR is within one of the categories as defined in B.(i)
   through B.(iv) above, the Contractor shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing within five (5) working days after
   the receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting Officer to modify the contract accordingly.  Upon receiving
   such notification from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the Contractor in
   writing that, in his/her opinion, the technical directions are within the scope of this provision and does not constitute a change under the
   "Changes" clause of this contract.  The Contractor shall thereupon proceed immediately with the direction given.  Any failure of the parties
   to agree upon the nature of the instruction or direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject to the
   provisions of the contract clause entitled "Disputes."

G-3 –Key Personnel

The performance of the work required by this contract will be conducted for the Contractor under the direction of:

Name:   _____________________

Title:     _____________________

E-mail: ______________________

Phone: ______________________

The contractor shall notify the COR and CO of any key personnel changes throughout the duration of the contract.

G-4 - Invoice Submission – QUARTERLY

A.  The contractor shall submit invoices and supporting documentation to the following addresses and manner specified below:

One original and one copy to the approving official

Attn:  Contract Specialist
Food and Drug Administration
State Contracts Branch
5630 Fishers Lane, Rm 2129, HFA-500
Rockville, MD 20857
Fax:  301-827-7106

**Acceptable methods of delivery include mail, hand delivery, fax, and email.**

One copy to the Contracting Officers Representative (COR)

Attn:  COR
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Partnerships
12420 Parklawn Drive
Rockville, MD 20856

**Acceptable methods of delivery include mail, hand delivery, fax, and email.**


B.  Invoices submitted under this contract must comply with the requirements set forth in FAR Clauses 52.216-4 “Allowable Cost and Payment”,
52.232-25 “Prompt Payment” and 52.232-33 “Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration” and/or other applicable FAR
clauses specified herein.  The Contractor shall submit vouchers or invoices, using a Standard form 1034 and Standard Form 1035, for costs
incurred and claimed for reimbursement and shall include the following:

(I)   Name and address of the Contractor;

(II)        Invoice date and invoice number;

(III)       Award Number;

(IV)        Description, Quantity, Unit of measure, Unit price, and extended price supplies delivered or services performed, including:

      (a) Period of performance for which costs are claimed;
      (b) Itemized travel costs, including origin and destination;
      (c) Any other supporting information necessary to clarify questionable expenditures;
      (d) Labor hours/or percent of time as the case may be, segregated as to professional and nonprofessional.
      (e) Indirect rate(s) and costs.
      (f) Material costs, itemized in all cases.
      (g) Equipment cost, itemized and identified including reference to approval in all cases and separated from material costs.
      (h) Travel costs, itemized and identified including origin and destination.
      (i)  Any other supporting data that will clarify unusual expenditures.

(V)         Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on government bill of
      lading;

(VI)        Terms of any discounted for prompt payment offered;

(VII)       Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the purchase order/award, or in a proper
      notice of assignment);

(VIII)      Name, title and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice;

(IX)        Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN);

(X)              Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Banking information, including routing transit number of the financial institution receiving
      payment and the number of the account into which funds are to be deposited (can also be submitted as an attachment);

(XI)        Name and telephone number of the FDA contracting officer representative (COR) or other program center/office point of contact, as
      referenced on the award;

(XII)       Any other information or documentation required by the award;

(XIII)      Contractor is required to attach an invoice log addendum to each invoice which shall include, at a minimum, the following
      information for contract administration and reconciliation purposes:

            (a) List of all invoices submitted to date under the subject award, including the following:

            (1) Invoice number, amount and date submitted
            (2) Corresponding payment amount & date received

            (b) Total amount of all payments received to date under the subject contract
            (c)  Costs incurred for the current period and the cumulative costs for the total contract according to the categories identified in
      IV

C.  Electronic invoices submitted in adobe acrobat (PDF) format are acceptable.  All items listed in (I) through (XIII) of this clause must be
included in the electronic invoice.

D.  Questions regarding invoice payments should be directed to the FDA Payment Office at:

FDA/OC/OA/OFO/OFS
ATTN:  Office of Financial Services
Food and Drug Administration
Attn: Vendor Payments
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
WO32 Second Floor, MAIL HUB 2145
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
fdavendorpaymentsteam@fda.gov

G-5 – Post Award Evaluation of Contractor Performance

A.  Contractor Performance Evaluations

Interim and final evaluations of Contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.15. The final performance
evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work. In addition to the final evaluation, interim evaluation(s) shall be submitted
annually.

Interim and final evaluations will be provided to the Contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. The Contractor will
be permitted thirty days to review the document and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement. If agreement cannot be reached
between the parties, the matter will be referred to an individual one level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision will be final.

Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to
support future award decisions.

b. Electronic Access to Contractor Performance Evaluations

Contractors that have Internet capability may access evaluations through the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) web
site, which is managed by the Department of Defense (DOD). Details regarding CPARS training and on-line registration can be found at
http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/.

The registration process requires the Contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact and who will be authorized
access to the evaluation for review and comment. In addition, the Contractor will be required to identify an alternate contact who will be
responsible for notifying the FDA contracting official in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the
required 30-day time frame.


                                                    Section H – Special Contract Requirements

The clauses below are mandatory to ensure compliance with information disclosure laws.


H-1 – Confidentiality Definitions


Confidential Commercial Information.   Confidential commercial information is valuable data or information which is used in one's business and,
if voluntarily submitted by the information's owner to FDA, is of a type customarily not disclosed to the public by the person to whom the
information belongs or, if not voluntarily submitted, is information which, if disclosed by FDA would be likely to cause substantial harm to the
competitive position of the person to whom the information belongs or impair the agency's ability to obtain similar data in the future.
Examples of records that may fall within the definition of confidential commercial information either in part or in their entirety include
information in an application to market an unapproved product, or in an Establishment Inspection Report containing the results of an inspection
of a regulated company.


Disclosure.  Disclosure means releasing, transferring, providing access to, or otherwise divulging to the public nonpublic information by any
means of communication--including photographic, written, oral, electronic (including databases), or mechanical.


Nonpublic information.  Nonpublic information includes but is not limited to trade secret, confidential commercial, predecisional, or other
information, such as personal privacy information about an individual, information provided by a confidential informant, techniques and
procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law,
information that could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of an individual, or information, which if disclosed,
could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings (“open investigatory”).  Information includes oral information,
documents, photographs, data, and other records, in written (paper) or electronic form or other medium, that are either created or obtained by
FDA and under FDA's control at the time the information is shared with the Contractor.


Contractor.  For purposes of this Contract, the term “Contractor” means a State or local government organization and includes an employee of the
Contractor.


Personal privacy information.  Information about an individual, which, if disclosed, would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy.


Predecisional information.  Predecisional information refers to information that is created by FDA in the course of its decision-making process
and is not available to the general public.  Predecisional information includes non-factual information contained in inter- or intra-agency
records prepared during the process of FDA's deliberations and proposed policies before final adoption.  A document that FDA considers to be
predecisional may include confidential commercial or trade secret information.


Sponsor/submitter.  A sponsor/submitter is an individual, partnership, corporation, or association that owns or submitted the nonpublic
confidential commercial or trade secret information that is submitted to FDA.  (Often a sponsor/submitter is the manufacturer of a product.)


Trade secret information.  A trade secret is information that may consist of any commercially valuable plan, formula, process, or device that is
used for the making, preparing, compounding, or processing of trade commodities and that can be said to be the end product of either innovation
or substantial effort.  There must be a direct relationship between the trade secret and the productive process.  Trade secret information might
be found in the same records that contain confidential commercial information.


H-2 – FDA 1323 Clearance for Publication


No information furnished to or generated by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall be released to the public until it has been
reviewed by the COR for accuracy of factual data and interpretation.  The Government shall have thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the
manuscript or other written draft of the material to be released, to review, comment, and return to the Contractor.

The Contractor shall notify the COR prior to (minimum of 5 business days) any release of the final report.


H-3 - FDA 1350 Access To Non-Public Information


All Contractor and subcontractor employees are required to sign the Contractor's Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information Agreement form
provided as an attachment to this contract.  If a person who has signed this agreement resigns, is dismissed, or is otherwise no longer working
on this contract, the contractor shall notify the FDA COR and Contracting Officer.  Any new contractor and subcontractor employees assigned to
this contract shall sign the form, and the contractor submit it (ten (10) days prior to commencement of work) to the Contracting Officer.

The prime contractor, subcontractors, and consultants shall not be provided nor possess non-public information in any form unless written
approval and a facility clearance have been granted.

Briefings

A FDA representative (typically, the COR) will conduct an orientation briefing for the contractor/contractor employees.  The briefing will
stress:  (1) the importance of protecting non-public information; (2) specified computer/ADP requirements as outlined in the DHHS Automated
Information Systems Security Program Handbook; and (3) the consequences of unauthorized disclosure of non-public information.  Briefing updates
will be conducted annually.

The contractor shall brief all contractor employees, subcontractors and consultants regarding the sensitivity of the information to be handled
under the contract and of their responsibility to protect it.  The briefing shall stress that the information is non-public and shall not be
disclosed to any unauthorized source.  The contractor shall conduct an updated briefing annually and shall submit a report to the FDA COR within
ten (10) days after the briefing which includes: an outline of the briefing, a copy of any briefing materials, date briefing was conducted and
the names of the attendees.

If this is an automated data processing/telecommunications (ADP/TC) contract, in addition to the above briefings, the FDA COR and the FDA
Center/Office Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) will brief contractor and subcontractor personnel and consultants on security measures
required pertinent to any hardware/software being utilized.  Furthermore, appropriate contractor and subcontractor personnel and consultants
shall attend training courses as directed by the FDA to fulfill requirements of the Computer Security Act of 1987.  These courses are generally
one (1) day in length; and attendance at one (1) course is sufficient.  This training will be provided at no cost to the contractor.


H-4 - FDA 1354 Physical Security Requirements for Releasing Non-Public Information


Under the provisions of Title 21, United States Code, Section 331(j), the contractor shall establish and maintain comprehensive security
measures for controlling access to non-public information released under a contract involving the processing of such information.

This clause applies to the contractor, any subcontractors, and any consultants.  Non-public information shall be released to only those persons
authorized under this contract.

For transmittal of documents the contractor shall adhere to the following:

      1.    Documents to be transmitted internally shall be transmitted on a person-to-person basis between approved employees only.
      2.    Documents to be transmitted outside the contractor's facility shall be double-wrapped with the inner wrapping marked "FDA Privileged
          Information - Access Controlled".  The names and addresses of the sender and addressee shall be typed on both the inner and outer
          wrappings.
      3.    Documents to be transmitted back to the FDA or to another address designated by the FDA shall be transmitted by an approved employee
          or by U. S. Registered mail (return receipt requested). It shall be double-wrapped or wrapped by such a method as specifically approved
          in writing by the FDA Physical Security Office.
      4.    A receipt log shall be maintained for all external transmittals.
      5.    The contractor shall follow up all transmittals in order to obtain signed receipt within five (5) working days of transmittal.
          Failure of recipient to furnish such receipt shall be reported to the FDA Physical Security Office within ten (10) working days of
          transmittal.

If the contractor facility has a current certification from the Defense Contract Administration Services/Defense Logistics Agency (DCAS/DLA)
with a "Secret" or higher classification, such rating will satisfy the FDA security requirements for the contractor's facility.  Loss of such
certification during the period of the contract will be cause for a possible issuance of a Stop Work Order pending review by the FDA's Physical
Security Staff of the contractor's facility.  The contractor shall notify the FDA Physical Security Office in the event their DCAS/DLA rating is
expected to be terminated.

Pending the outcome of any subsequently required investigation, additional requirements on the contractor shall include, but not be limited to,
the following: restrictions on access to data by contractor employees, subcontractor employees, and consultants; special storage requirements;
restrictions on transmission and disclosure of information; changes in periods of retention and in methods of destruction of source documents or
related material; and disclosure statements for all contractor employees, subcontractor employees, and consultants.

The FDA Physical Security Staff may review the contractor's facility and assess the contractor's compliance.  Recommendations for bringing
noncompliant areas into compliance will be provided to the contractor by the FDA Physical Security Office.

The Contractor shall make any changes necessary within thirty (30) days after written notice from the FDA Physical Security Office in order to
comply with FDA security requirements.  When appropriate changes have been made the Contractor shall contact the FDA Physical Security Office to
request further review by the FDA.  The FDA Physical Security Office will notify the Contractor in writing of the outcome of the second
inspection.  Failure of the contractor to satisfy FDA security requirements within thirty (30) days after the first written notification from
the Contracting Officer may be cause for termination of the contract.

The Contractor shall designate a Security Representative to act as liaison between the contractor and the FDA on all security-related matters.
This includes personnel changes, personnel terminations, disciplinary actions, etc.  The name of the Security Representative shall be provided
in the offeror's proposal.

In addition to the above, if this is an automated data processing/telecommunications (ADP/TC) contract, special requirements are necessary.
Contractor and subcontractor employees and consultants participating in the design, operation, maintenance or use of FDA automated information
systems or ADP/TC resources shall comply with the DHHS Automated Information Systems Security Program Handbook.  Chapter VII, entitled,
"Personnel Security/Suitability and Training," which establishes criteria for assigning positions to the three (3) computer/ADP position risk
levels: Level 6, high risk public trust position; Level 5, moderate risk public trust position; and Level 1, low risk position.  Chapter VIII,
entitled, "AIS Facilities," requires contractors to meet or exceed the security requirements described therein.

All contractor, subcontractor and consultants assigned to this contract and working in a FDA facility will be provided with Government badges by
the FDA COR at the FDA's expense.


                                                           Section I – Contract Clauses

I-1 - 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at these addresses:


                                                          http://www.acquisition.gov/far
                                                        http://www.hhs.gov/policies/hhsar/

A.  Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clauses

        FAR
      Clause No.   Title & Date

      52.202-1   Definitions (JAN 2012)
      52.203-3   Gratuities (APR 1984)
      52.203-5   Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984)
      52.203-7   Anti-Kickback Procedures (OCT 2010)
      52.203-12  Limitations on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010)
              4. Printing/Copying Doubled-Sided on Recycled Paper (MAY 2011)
    52.204-7     Central Contractor Registration (DEC 2012)
    52.204-9     Annual Representations and Certifications (DEC 2012)
      52.209-6   Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With
                 Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010)
      52.215-2   Audit and Records - Negotiation (OCT 2010)
      52.215-8   Order of Precedence-Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997)
      52.215-10  Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (AUG 2011)
      52.216-7   Allowable Cost and Payment (JUN 2011)
      52.216-8   Fixed Fee (JUN 2011)
      52.216-15  Predetermined Indirect Cost Rates (APR 1998)
      52.219-8   Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011)
              3. Convict Labor (JUNE 2003)
    52.222-21    Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999)
      52.222-26  Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007)
      52.222-35  Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEPT 2010)
      52.222-36  Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010)
             37. Employment Reports On Veterans (SEPT 2010)
      52.223-6   Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001)
              1. Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007)
              2. Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007)
      52.227-11  Patent Rights-Ownership by the Contractor (DEC 2007)
      52.227-14  Rights in Data--General (DEC 2007)
      52.232-9   Limitation on Withholding of Payments (APR 1984)
      52.232-20  Limitation of Cost (APR 1984)
      52.232-23  Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986)
      52.232-25  Prompt Payment (OCT 2008)
             33. Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003)
      52.233-1   Disputes (JUL 2002)
      52.233-3   Protest After Award (AUG 1996) - Alternate I (JUN 1985)
      52.242-1   Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (APR 1984)
      52.243-2   Changes - Cost-Reimbursement (AUG 1987) – Alternate II (APR 1984)
      52.244-5   Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996)
      52.246-5   Inspection of Services – Cost Reimbursement (APR 1984)
      52.246-23  Limitation of Liability (FEB 1997)
      52.249-6   Termination (Cost Reimbursement) (MAY 2004)

B.  Department of Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulation (HHSAR) (48 CFR Chapter 3) Clauses

      352.202-1  Definitions (JAN 2006)
      352.203-70 Anti-Lobbying (JAN 2006)
      353.227-70 Publications and publicity (JAN 2006)
      352.233-71 Litigation and Claims (JAN 2006)
      352.239-70 Standard for Security Configurations (JAN 2010)
      352.239-71 Standard for Encryption Language (JAN 2010)
      352.239-72 Security Requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources (JAN 2010)
      352.239-73 Electronic Information Technology Accessibility (JAN 2010)
      353.242-70 Key Personnel (JAN 2006)
      352.242-73 Withholding of Contract Payments (JAN 2006)
      352.242-74 Final Decisions on Audit Findings (APR 1984)

I-2 - Clauses in Full Text

        8. Option to Extend Services  (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days.

52.217-9    Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2002)

a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 15 days; provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months.


                                                         Section J – List of Attachments

The following attachment is incorporated into this solicitation/ contract.

Attachment 1     - Contractor’s Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information (NPI) Agreement

Attachment 2 – Representations and Certifications if SAM is not utilized (see Section K)


                           Section K – Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors or Respondents

System for Award Management Registration

In accordance with the with the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, in order to be considered for an award of a Federal contract, the
contractor must be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM), a free web site that encompasses the capabilities of the –

Central Contractor Registry (CCR); Federal Agency Registration (Fedreg); Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA); Excluded
Parties List System  (EPLS); and the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.

If a new Contractor, you will need only your personal information to create an account in SAM.  If a Contractor with an active record in CCR,
you will not need to establish a SAM account.  The CCR record transfers to become the active SAM account.

 (1) Definitions.

"Registered in the SAM database" means that-

      (i) The Contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the DUNS number or the DUNS+4 number, into the SAM database;
      (ii) The Contractor's CAGE code is in the SAM database; and
      (iii) The Government has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the
      Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and has marked the record "Active". The Contractor will be required to provide consent for TIN Attachment,
      Page 1 of 4 validation to the Government as a part of the SAM registration process.


"System for Award Management (SAM)" means the primary Government repository for prospective federal awardee information and the centralized
Government system for certain contracting, grants, and other assistance related processes. It includes-

      (i) Data collected from prospective federal awardees required for the conduct of business with the Government;
      (ii) Prospective contractor submitted annual representations and certifications in accordance with FAR Subpart 4.12.  [If unable to
      complete updated representations and certifications in SAM, the Contractor must complete a paper copy of their Representations and
      Certifications and submit it with their proposal]; and
      (iii) The list of all parties suspended, proposed for debarment, debarred, declared ineligible, or excluded or disqualified under the
      nonprocurement common rule by agencies, Government corporations , or by the Government Accountability Office.


(2) The Contractor shall be registered in the SAM database prior to submitting an invoice and through final payment of any contract, basic
agreement, basic ordering agreement, or blanket purchasing agreement resulting from this solicitation. The SAM registration shall be for the
same name and address identified on the contract, with its associated CAGE code and DUNS or DUNS+4.  If indicated by the Government during
performance, registration in an alternate system may be required in lieu of SAM.

If the Contractor does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one.  A contractor may obtain a DUNS
number-

      (i) Via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the contractor does not have internet access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at
      1-866-705-5711 if located within the United States; or
      (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The contractor should indicate that it is a
      contractor for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.


(3) The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the SAM database, and for any liability resulting from
the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the SAM database after the initial registration, the
Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in
the SAM database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the SAM does not alter the terms and conditions of this
contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document.

(4) Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the SAM accessed through
https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 866-606-8220, or 334-206-7828 for international calls. If there is any difficulty in updating this
record, contact the Federal Service Help Desk at www.fsd.gov or 866-606-8220 for SAM assistance. https://www.sam.gov/portal/public/SAM/


                                           Section L – Instructions, Conditions and Notices to Offerors

L-1 - General Instructions

Your proposal must be prepared in accordance with the General Instructions, Technical Proposal Instructions, Business Proposal Instructions, and
the Statement of Work contained in Section C of the request for proposals.  If you have a basic agreement with the Department and it is
applicable to the type of contract to be awarded, the resultant contract will incorporate the basic agreement by reference.

The following instructions establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals.  Special attention is directed
to the requirements for technical and business proposals to be submitted in accordance with these instructions.

The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 USC 1001.

A. Submission of Proposals:  The proposal shall be in two parts:

"BUSINESS PROPOSAL" and "TECHNICAL PROPOSAL" - each of the parts shall be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be
accomplished independently of and concurrently with evaluation of the other.  Each proposal shall be limited to no more than 100 pages.  The
first 100 pages will be evaluated, anything above that will not be considered for evaluation.

    All documents required for responding to this RFP should be placed in the following order when submitting proposals:

    1.      COVER PAGE - with RFP title, RFP number and name of organization.  Also, indicate on cover page either:

               (a)  ORIGINAL PROPOSAL (signed hardcopy)
               (b)  COPY OF PROPOSAL (electronic)

    2. BUSINESS PROPOSAL - The "Business Proposal" shall include cost and pricing data in sufficient detail to establish the reasonableness of
       your proposed costs.
       (See item L-2 of these instructions for details.)

    3. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL - The "Technical Proposal" shall not contain any reference of cost.  However, resource information such as data
       concerning labor hours and categories, types of materials, subcontracts, travel, computer time, etc., must be included in the "Technical
       Proposal" so that the offeror’s understanding of the scope of work may be evaluated. (See Section L-3 for details.)

       Your Technical Proposal must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation that
       includes, but is not limited to, the requirements of the Technical Proposal instructions.

B.    Alternate Proposals.  You may, at your discretion, submit alternate proposals, or proposals which deviate from the requirements, provided
that you also submit a proposal for performance of the work as specified in the statement of work. Such proposals may be considered if overall
performance would be improved or not compromised and if they are in the best interest of the Government.  Alternative proposals, or deviations
from any requirement of this RFP,       shall be clearly identified.

C.  Restriction on Disclosure and Use of Data (APR 1984) (HHSAR 352.215-12).  The proposal submitted in response to this request may contain
data (trade secrets; business data, e.g., commercial information, financial information, and cost and pricing data; and technical data) which
the offeror, including its prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the
proposal.  The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted; provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be
disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the
following legend, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted in accordance with the conditions of the legend.
 The Government's determination to withhold or disclose a record will be based upon the particular circumstances involving the record in
question and whether the record may be exempted from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act:

                                                                      LEGEND

Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information
(FOI) Officials of the Department of Health and Human Services, data contained in the portions of this proposal which have been specifically
identified by page number, paragraph, etc., by the offeror as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for
evaluation purposes.

    The offeror acknowledges that the Department may not be able to withhold a record (data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record
    requested pursuant to the Act and that the Department's FOI Officials must make that determination. The offeror hereby agrees that the
    Government is not liable for disclosure if the Department has determined that disclosure is required by the Act.  If a contract is awarded
    to the offeror as a result of, or in connection with the submission of this proposal, the Government shall have the right to use or disclose
    the data to the extent provided in the contract. Proposals not resulting in a contract remain subject to the Act.

The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any
purpose including the release of the information pursuant to requests under the Act.

In addition, the offeror should mark each page of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend:

           "Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restriction on the cover sheet of this proposal or quotation."

Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive legends or statements differing in substance from the above legend may not be
considered for award.  The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with a nonconforming legend.

D.     Your proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP.

E.    It is understood that your proposal will become part of the official file.

L-2 - Business Proposal Instructions

Your business proposal shall consist of three parts:  Cost and pricing data, other administrative data, and representations and certifications
(either from SAM or from attachment 2).

The business proposal should be specific, complete in every detail, and separate from your technical proposal.  To reduce subsequent requests to
offerors for additional data, the following paragraphs provide guidance on preparing your business proposal.

A.  Cost or Pricing Data

You must submit, as a minimum, cost proposals fully supported by cost and pricing data adequate to establish the reasonableness of the proposed
amount.

Submit a detailed breakdown of estimated costs by phase, segment, or year.  For each separate cost estimate, the offeror must furnish a
breakdown by cost element as indicated below.  In addition, summary total amounts shall be furnished.  In the event the RFP cites specific line
items, by number, a cost breakdown for each line item must be furnished.

The proposal shall be submitted in such a way and in such detail as to positively identify all costs and related data in support of the cost
proposal.  The offeror shall identify all cost or pricing data including historical performance data.  Cost or pricing data refers to the
portion of the offeror's submission which is factual.  The requirement for cost or pricing data is satisfied when all facts reasonably available
to the contractor up to the time of agreement on cost/price, and which might reasonably be expected to affect the price negotiations are
accurately disclosed to the Contracting Officer or their representative.

In completing your proposal and supporting documents, you should consider the following:

B.  Direct Materials

Your proposal should separately show any major items (those representing $2,000 or 10% of the direct materials cost, whichever is lower) of
direct materials and their estimated costs.  It should also show the basis for the estimate, e.g., competitive bids, catalog prices or vendor
quotations which are the basis for the proposal, and name of proposed vendors.

C.  Direct Labor

Attach supporting schedules indicating types or categories of labor, together with man-hours.

If you use anything other than actual hours, state the basis of the full-time equivalency, i.e., 2,000 hours, 2080 hours, etc.  Indicate whether
current rates or escalated rates are used.  If escalation is included, state the degree (percent) and methodology, e.g., annual flat rate
applied to a base rate as of a specific date - or a mid-pointed rate for the period of performance.

State whether any additional direct labor (new hires) will be required during the performance period of this procurement.  If so, state the
number required and anticipated date of hire.

D.  Subcontracted Effort

Include parts, components, assemblies, and services that are to be produced or performed by others in accordance with offeror's design,
specifications, or direction and that are applicable only to the prime contract.  For each subcontract over $500,000, the support should provide
a listing by source, item, quantity, price, type of subcontract, degree of competition, and basis for establishing source and reasonableness of
price, as well as the results of review and evaluation of subcontract proposals when required by FAR 15.806.

E.  Overhead, General and Administrative Expense

Unless your proposed burden rate(s) has recently been accepted by an agency of the U.S. Government, detailed projected estimates of the various
items which are included in the total overhead pools are required.  These projected estimates should be based upon past actuals as well as upon
the planned mode and level of operation during the period in which effort is to be expended under the subject contract.  These estimates should
take into consideration all operating changes.  Details of cost incurred in the previous fiscal year and current year to date should also be
presented.  If you have an approved indirect cost rate agreement, it is recommended that you attached a copy of the agreement to your proposal.

F.  Special Testing

Include details of special testing (labor, material and overhead), attaching a separate schedule, if necessary.  Show the basis of the estimate.

G.  Special Equipment

If special purpose equipment is being proposed, provide a description of the items, details of the proposed cost including competitive prices,
and a justification as to why the Government should furnish the equipment or allow its purchase with contract funds. (See K of this section
below for policy on equipment.)

If fabrication by the prime contract is contemplated, include details of material, labor and overhead.

H.  Travel Expense

Attach a schedule indicating the estimated number of person-trips required, destinations, mode and cost of transportation, and the number of
days of subsistence per trip.  Identify and support any other special transportation costs attributable to the performance of this project.

I.  Consultant Service

Consultant service should be explained by indicating the specific area in which such service is to be used.  Identify the contemplated
consultants.  State the number of days of such service estimated to be required and the consultant's quoted rate per day, and indicate the
number of hours per day in which work will be performed.  State whether the consultant has received the proposed rate in performing similar
services for other contractors.

J.  Other Direct Costs

Special direct taxes, such as Federal excise, state franchise or personal property taxes, directly applicable to this procurement should be
identified, including basis of recovery.

Taxes from which exemptions are available to the contractor directly, or afforded the Government when the procuring agency makes available a
certificate of exemption, should not be included in the cost proposal.

When the costs of materials for publication of reports required under the contract are included in your proposal, indicate the approximate total
number of pages contemplated in the reports.

The cost of computer time should be supported.  Explain what is included in the rate.

While the above are representative of other direct costs, they are not intended to be all-inclusive of the items which may be contained in your
cost proposal.

K.  Equipment

It is HHS policy that contractors will provide all equipment and facilities necessary for performance of contracts.  Exception may be granted to
furnish government-owned property or to authorize purchase with contract funds, only when approved by the head of the procuring activity.  If
additional equipment must be acquired, the offeror shall include in the proposal the description, estimated cost of each item and whether you
will furnish such items with your own funds.

L.  Government-Owned Property

The offeror shall identify Government-owned property in their possession and/or property acquired from Federal funds, which you have title and
that is proposed to use in the performance of the prospective contract.

M.  Control of Government Property

The management and control of any Government property shall be in accordance with HHS Publication entitled “Contractor’s Guide for Control of
Government Property,” dated 1990, a copy of which will be provided upon request.

N.  Financial Capacity

The offeror shall indicate if it has the necessary financial capacity, working capital and other resources to perform the contract without
assistance from any outside source.  (If not, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source.)

O.  Determining Management Capability and Responsibility

In reviewing the proposal and other sources of information, the Contracting Officer must receive adequate information to evaluate the offeror's
management capability and to determine whether the offeror is responsible.  Therefore, under the Other Administrative Data Section of your
proposal, it is suggested that you provide adequate information in the following areas:

     (a)         Capability to meet delivery or performance schedules;
     (b)         Record of past performance;
     (c)         Record of business integrity;
     (d)         Possession of necessary organization, experience, and technical skills, or the ability to obtain them;
     (e)               Possession of required facilities.
     (f)         Other special considerations involved in the instant acquisition.

NOTE:  If the information for any of the above areas has already been provided elsewhere in your proposal, please identify the section and/or
page number of either your business or technical proposal where the information is located.

L-3 - Technical Proposal Instructions

Proposals which merely offer to conduct a program in accordance with the requirements of the Government's scope of work will not be eligible for
award.  You must submit an explanation of the proposed technical approach in conjunction with the tasks to be performed in achieving the project
objectives.

A detailed work plan must be submitted indicating how each aspect of the statement of work is to be accomplished.  Your technical approach
should be in as much detail as you consider necessary to fully explain your proposed technical approach or method.  The technical proposal
should reflect a clear understanding of the nature of the work being undertaken.

The technical proposal must include information on how the project is to be organized, staffed, and managed.  Information should be provided
which will demonstrate your understanding and management of important events or tasks.  You must explain how the management and coordination of
consultant and/or subcontractor efforts will be accomplished.

The technical proposal must include a list of names and proposed duties of the professional personnel, consultants, and key subcontractor
employees assigned to the project.

Their resumes should be included and should contain information on education, background, recent experience, and specific scientific or
technical accomplishments.  The approximate percentage of time each individual will be available for this project must be included.  The
proposed staff hours for each of the above individuals should be allocated against each task or subtask for the project.

The technical proposal must provide the general background, experience, and qualifications of the organization.  Similar or related contracts,
subcontracts, or grants should be included and contain the name of the customer, contract or grant number, dollar amount, time of performance,
and the names and telephone numbers of the COR and contracting/grants officer.

The technical proposal must contain a discussion of present or proposed facilities and equipment which will be used in the performance of the
contract.

Offerors are hereby advised that the Government will acquire the right to use, duplicate, or disclose in any manner and for any purpose
whatsoever, and have or permit others to do so, all subject data required to be delivered under any contract resulting from this solicitation.
Any reservations to these stated Government rights to data should be enunciated in your proposal and will be resolved during any subsequent
negotiations.

The technical proposal must be prepared and submitted in the following format:

    a.      Table of Contents
    b.      Background
    c.      Plan of Work
    d.      Objectives
    e.      Experience and Qualifications
    f.      Resource Information
    g.      Other Considerations

Explanation of the above:

b. Background – Review pertinent work already completed and/or published which is relevant to this project and scope of work.

c. Plan of Work – This portion of the technical proposal should describe the plan of work and contain the following date and information:

    1.      Understanding of the problem and technical approach.
    2.      Statement and discussion of the requirement as it is analyzed by the offeror.
    3.      Explanation of technical approach to be employed and a program outline for accomplishing the objectives of the contract.
    4.      Preliminary layouts, sketches, diagrams, other graphic         representation calculations, curves, and other data as may be
       necessary for presentation, substantiation, justification or        understanding of the proposed approaches and program.
    5.      Statement and discussion of anticipated major difficulties and problem areas, together with potential or recommended approaches for
       their resolution.
    6.      Specific statement of any interpretations, qualifications, limitations, deviations, or exceptions to the scope of work.
    7.      Statement of the extent to which the proposed approach and program can be expected to meet or exceed requirements and specifications
       of the scope of work.
    8.      A differentiation should be made between the areas of assured       compliance, possible but not assured compliance, and
       noncompliance.  If, in the opinion of the offeror, a requirement or specification of the scope of work cannot be satisfied, the offeror
       shall so state.  In this regard, reasoning for the conclusions, and suggested or recommended alternative or compromise for tentative
       consideration should be furnished.
    9.      An outline of the phases or segments into which the proposed  program can be logically divided and performed if for some substantial
       reason they are different from the phases or segments shown in the scope of work.
    10.       Schedule for the completion of work and delivery of items specified in the scope of work.  Performance or delivery schedules shall
       be indicated for phases or segments, as applicable, as well as for the overall program.  Schedules shall be shown in terms of calendar
       months from the date of authorization to proceed or, where applicable, from the date of a stated event, as for example, receipt of a
       required approval by the Contracting Officer.  Unless the request for proposal indicates that the stipulated schedules are mandatory,
       they shall be treated as desired or recommended schedules.  In this event, proposals based upon the offeror's best alternative schedule,
       involving no overtime, extra shift or other premium, will be accepted for consideration.

d. Objectives - State the overall objectives and the specific accomplishments you hope to achieve.  Indicate rationale for your plan, relating
to comparable work in progress elsewhere.

e. Experience and Qualifications – This portion of the technical proposal should include the following:

    1.      Organizational Experience - Organizational background, experience, and qualifications of the offeror.  Special notation should be
       made of similar or related Government programs, performed for the Government, including documentation referencing the contract numbers
       and awarding agencies.                      documentation with reference to the applicable contract numbers and awarding agencies.
    2.         Personnel - Personnel who will be assigned for direct work on this program.  Information is required which will show the
       composition of the task or work group, its general qualifications, and recent experience with similar equipment or programs.  Special
       mention shall be made of direct technical supervisors and key technical personnel, and the approximate percentage of the total time each
       will be available for this program.  Resumes are desirable which will indicate education, background, recent experience and specific
       scientific or technical accomplishments.
    3.         Program Management - If the size or complexity of the project so warrants indicate in chart and/or description form how the
       various activities will be coordinated so as to demonstrate an awareness of organization influences on project implementation and
       control.
    4.         Facilities and Equipment - Describe the facilities and equipment available for the conduct of the proposed research. If helpful,
       submit a floor plan to show relationship of rooms to each other and to those used in other but similar programs.
    5.         Related Activities - Describe previous or current related grants or contracts from which the investigators proposed for this
       project have drawn or are now drawing support.  Identify program by title, agency or organization supporting such work, and level of
       financial support given.

f. Resource Information - the following resource information, as applicable, shall be:    included in your technical proposal so that your under
standing of the resources needed to accomplish the scope of work may be evaluated:

    1. Direct Materials - Identify types and quantities of significant materials and supplies.
         2. Direct Labor - Identify categories and amounts of labor – costs should not be included.
    3. Special Equipment - Identify any significant special equipment.
    4. Travel - Indicate purpose, location and frequency of trips.
       5. Other Resources - Indicate any other significant resources needed such as computer time, etc.

g. Other Considerations - record and discuss specific factors not included elsewhere      which support your research proposal.  Using
specifically     titled subparagraphs, items may include:

       1. Unique arrangements, equipment, etc., which no one, or very few organizations, are likely to have which is mandatory for effective
      implementation of this program.
       2. Equipment and unusual operating procedures established to protect personnel from hazards associated with this project.
    3. Other factors requested in Scope of Work.
       4. Other factors you feel are important and support your proposed research.
    5. Changes in the RFP reporting requirements should also be recommended if such changes are more compatible with the offeror's proposed
      schedule.

L-3 – Past Performance

The offeror shall provide information on recent contracts or comparative programs that are most similar to this effort in terms of type, scope
and complexity.  The offeror shall submit at least 3 past performance records (if available), related and/or non-related to the requirement.

L-4 - 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998)

52.204-6         Contractor Identification Number - Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number (DEC 2012)

L-5 - Solicitation Provisions Incorporated in Full Text

52.216-1 Type of Contract (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates award of a cost plus fixed fee contract resulting from this solicitation.

52.233-2 Service of Protest (SEPT 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any
protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining
written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from:

     FDA/OAGS/DASG/SCB, HFA-500              Attn:  Contracting Officer
     5630 Fishers Lane, Rm 2129
     Rockville, Maryland  20857

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

L-6 - Cost of Proposal Preparation

The solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal.  It is also brought to your
attention that the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in
connection with the proposed acquisition.

L-7 – Confidentiality of Information

Special attention is directed to the Confidentiality of Information and Physical Security Requirements clauses in Section H of this
solicitation.  These are required clauses.  If the contractor believes that their security requirements equal or exceed FDA’s, submit
documentation and/or your physical security plan with your proposal. The FDA will then make a determination as to its compliance.  In addition,
a completed Form FDA 3398, Contractor’s Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information (NPI) Agreement, (Attachment 1), must be completed and
returned with your proposal.


                                                     Section M – Evaluation Factors for Award

Technical Evaluation

Offers are being solicited from small business firms via FedBizOpps, who can satisfy the requirements contained in the Statement of Work.
Offers are being solicited on a competitive basis for a cost plus fixed fee single award for this requirement.

Proposals received shall first be evaluated from a technical standpoint without regard to proposed cost.  Those proposals which are considered
to be technically acceptable shall then be evaluated from a financial and management standpoint.

Although technical factors are of paramount importance in the award, price is also of significant consideration in the overall award decision.
All evaluation factors, other than price, when combined, are significantly more important than price.

Offerors are advised that award will be made to the offeror whose offer provides the best overall value to the Government.  The Government is
more concerned with obtaining superior performance capability rather than lowest overall price.  However, the Government will not make an award
at a significantly higher overall price to the Government to achieve only slightly superior performance.  Overall cost/price to the Government
may become the ultimate determining factor for award, as offers become more equal based on the other factors, as determined by the Government.

The evaluation will be based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective contractors in relation to the needs of the project, as set
forth in this solicitation.  The merits of each offer will be evaluated carefully.  Each offer must document the feasibility of successful
implementation of the requirements of the solicitation.  Offerors must submit information sufficient for the Government to evaluate the offers,
based on the factors listed below.

Technical Factors used for evaluation:

a. Plan of Work and Objectives
b. Experience and Capability of Organization and Personnel

Non-Technical Factors used for evaluation:

a. Past Performance

For the purpose of this acquisition, a deficiency is defined as “a material failure of a proposal to meet a Government requirement”.  An overall
rating of unacceptable will result in an automatic exclusion from the competitive range, thus making the proposal not awardable.

Technical Factors

a) Plan of Work and Objectives

       • Knowledge and plan to accomplish the statement of work including the offeror’s knowledge of the United States’ milk supply safety
         procedures and processes.  Demonstrate a working knowledge and understanding of the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipment’s
         (NCIMS) role in milk safety.
       • Recognition and ability to overcome potential difficulties in the performance of the statement of work.
       • Demonstrate a clear and practical knowledge of National Milk Drug Residue Database and how the data will be obtained from the states,
         industry, and other federal agencies.
       • Demonstrate clear knowledge and understanding of the methods used for testing milk for drug residues.
       • Describe working relationship with the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipment (NCIMS).
       • Explanation of technical approach to be employed and a program outline for accomplishing the objectives of the contract.

The plan of work and objectives factor will receive one of the ratings described in Table M-1.  The rating depicts how well the offeror’s
proposal meets the requirements described above.

|Table M-1              |Plan of Work and Objectives                                                                         |
|Rating                 |Description                                                                                         |
|Excellent              |Exceed most of the required performance outcomes or capabilities in ways beneficial to the agency   |
|                       |and has no significant weaknesses.                                                                  |
|Good                   |Exceeds a few of the required performance outcomes or capabilities in a beneficial way to the agency|
|                       |and has no significant weaknesses.                                                                  |
|Acceptable             |Meets evaluation standards and any weaknesses are readily correctable.                              |
|Marginal               |Fails to meet evaluations standards; however, any significant deficiencies are correctable.         |
|Unacceptable           |Fails to meet evaluation standards; deficiencies are not correctable.                               |

b) Experience and Capability of Organization and Personnel

       • Demonstrate a thorough knowledge of database management
       • Experience of all contract personnel working with and in the milk industry
       • Demonstrate the adequacy of the organization and personnel to accomplish the objectives
       • Demonstrate experience and ability to obtain, evaluate, and report the information in the statement of work (personnel resumes)

The experience and capability of organization and personnel factor will receive one of the ratings described in Table M-2.  The rating depicts
how well the offeror’s proposal meets the requirements described above.


|Table M-2               |Experience and Capability of Organization and Personnel                                                             |
|Rating                  |Description                                                                                                         |
|Excellent               |Based on the offeror's experience and training record, the government has high confidence the offeror will          |
|                        |successfully perform the required effort.                                                                           |
|Good                    |Based on the offeror's experience and training record, the government has significant confidence the offeror will   |
|                        |successfully perform the required effort.                                                                           |
|Acceptable              |Based on the offeror's experience and training record, the government has confidence the offeror will successfully  |
|                        |perform the required effort.  Normal contractor emphasis should preclude any problems.                              |
|Unknown                 |No experience and training record is identifiable                                                                   |
|Marginal                |Based on the offeror's experience and training record, substantial doubt exists that the offeror will successfully  |
|                        |perform the required effort.                                                                                        |
|Unacceptable            |Based on the offeror's performance record, extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the      |
|                        |required effort.                                                                                                    |


Non-Technical Factors

a) Past Performance

    • Submission of at least 3 past performance records
    • The offeror shall describe performance of contracts/orders related and/or non-related to the milk-drug industry


Past Performance will receive an overall rating of one of the ratings described in Table M-3.  The rating depicts how well the offeror’s
proposal meets the requirements described above.

|Table M-3               |Past Performance                                                                                                    |
|Rating                  |Description                                                                                                         |
|Excellent               |Based on the offeror's past performance, the government has high confidence the offeror will successfully perform   |
|                        |the required effort.                                                                                                |
|Good                    |Based on the offeror's past performance, the government has significant confidence the offeror will successfully    |
|                        |perform the required effort.                                                                                        |
|Acceptable              |Based on the offeror's past performance, the government has confidence the offeror will successfully perform the    |
|                        |required effort.  Normal contractor emphasis should preclude any problems.                                          |
|Unknown                 |No past performance submitted or identified                                                                         |
|Marginal                |Based on the offeror's past performance, substantial doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the    |
|                        |required effort.                                                                                                    |
|Unacceptable            |Based on the offeror's past performance record, extreme doubt exists that the offeror will successfully perform the |
|                        |required effort.                                                                                                    |

-----------------------
      3


OMB-NO.0990-0115
SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER 3.

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)
SOLICITATION NUMBER 4.

RATING
5. DATE ISSUED

PAGE

OF

PAGES

1 1/18/2013

|

40

FDA-13-MilkDrug RFP
7. ISSUED BY CODE

TYPE OF SOLICITATION [] SEALED BID (IFB) [ X] NEGOTIATED (RFP) 8.

6.REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

DHHS/FDA/OAGS/DASG/State Contracts Branch 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 2129, HFA-500 Rockville, MD 20857

Type of Contract: Cost Plus Fixed Fee (Small Business Set-Aside) Period of Performance: 3/1/2013 to 2/28/2014 (Base Year) Option Year 1: 3/1/2014 ­ 2/28/2015 Option Year 2: 3/1/2015 ­ 2/29/2016 Option Year 3: 3/1/2016 ­ 2/28/2017 Option Year 4: 3/1/2017 ­ 2/28/2018

NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder" SOLICITATION
Sealed offers in original and 1 copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in item 8, or if handcarried, in the until 12:00 PM local time February 19, 2013 depository located in 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm 2129, Rockville, MD 20857 (Hour) (Date) CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1 All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. 9.

10. FOR NFORMATION CALL:

A.

NAME:

Tania Gates

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) C. E-MAIL ADDRESS Tania.Gates@fda.hhs.gov AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

301
(X) SEC. DESCRIPTION PART I - THE SCHEDULE 11. TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE (S) (X) SEC.

827-7176
DESCRIPTION PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES PAGE (S)

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2-5 6­9 9 9 ­ 10 10 - 12 13 ­ 17 17 - 22

X

I CONTRACT CLAUSES 22 - 24 PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 24 PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND 24 - 26 OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD 26 - 37 37 - 40

X

K X X L M

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions in 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule.

13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (See Section I, Clause 52-232-8)
14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR

10 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

20 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

CALENDAR DAYS %

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

CODE

FACILITY

16.

NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER
AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS 17. SIGNATURE IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE ENTER [ ] SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE AWARD (To be completed by Government) 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

18. OFFER DATE

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 23. [ ] 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)( ) [ ] 41 U.S.C. 253(c)( ) 24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than item 7) CODE

SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (1 copy unless otherwise specified)

ITEM

G-3
CODE

25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

Office of Financial Services 10903 New Hampshire Avenue WO32 Second Floor, MAIL HUB 2145 Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print) 27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 28. AWARD DATE

Tania Gates
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable

(Signature of Contracting Officer)
STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

Attachment 1

CONTRACTOR'S COMMITMENT TO PROTECT NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION (NPI) AGREEMENT

Whereas access to non-public information (NPI) from the files of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is required in the performance of my official duties, under Contract Number and between FDA and my employer, I, , hereby agree that I shall not further release, publish or ,

disclose such information and I shall protect such information entrusted to me in accordance with the provisions of 21 U.S.C. § 331(j), 21 U.S.C. § 360(j), 18 U.S.C. § 1905, as well as other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. Further, I agree to: 1. Store NPI in the secured offices of the FDA or in FDA approved contractor facility containers if work is performed off an FDA site. 2. Grant access to NPI only to known employees of the FDA or to other persons designated in writing by the FDA. 3. Return all NPI and any pertinent notes to the FDA Project Officer I am assigned to upon completion of the contract, or at any time upon the FDA's request. 4. Report in writing to the FDA Project Officer I am assigned to, all incidents in which unauthorized persons may have gained access to any NPI entrusted to me. I understand the provisions of 21 U.S.C. § 331(j), 21 U.S.C. § 360(j), 18 U.S.C. § 1905 and that I am subject to criminal penalties prescribed by law for any violation thereof.

Signature: Type or Print Name:

Date:

Witnessed by: Type or Print Name:

Date:

FORM FDA 3398 (9/99)

Created by: PSC Media Arts Branch (301) 443-2454

EF

52.204-8  Annual Representations and Certifications.

Annual Representations and Certifications (Dec 2012)

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 518210.

(2) The small business size standard is $25.0 million.

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

(b)(1) If the clause at , Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies.

(2) If the clause at  is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes:

[  ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies.

[  ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation.

(c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:

(i) , Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless—

(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in ;

(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or

(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.

(ii) , Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000.

(iii) , Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at , Central Contractor Registration.

(iv) , Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that—

(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns;

(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and

(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the  or its outlying areas.

(v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—Representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, or 2012.

(vi) , Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

(vii) , Place of Performance—Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(viii) , Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(ix) , Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the  or its outlying areas.

(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard.

(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

(x) , Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the  or its outlying areas.

(xi) , Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at , Equal Opportunity.

(xii) , Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at , Equal Opportunity.

(xiii) , Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items.

(xiv) , Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA–designated items; or include the clause at , Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.

(xv) , Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA–designated items.

(xvi) , Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at .

(xvii) , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternates I, II, and III.) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at .

(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies.

(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies.

(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $77,494, the provision with its Alternate II applies.

(D) If the acquisition value is $77,494 or more but is less than $100,000, the provision with its Alternate III applies.

(xviii) , Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at .

(xix) , Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations.

(xx) , Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications. This provision applies to all solicitations.

(xxi) , Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to—

(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and

(B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns.

(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer:

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]

__ (i) , Small Disadvantaged Business Status.

__ (A) Basic.

__ (B) Alternate I.

__ (ii) , Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.

__ (iii) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification.

__ (iv) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services–Certification.

__ (v) , with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Products (Alternate I only).

__ (vi) , Royalty Information.

__ (A) Basic.

__(B) Alternate I.

__ (vii) , Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.

(d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website accessed through . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.





FAR Clause #            Title            Date      Change

      ____________        _________       _____      _______