

BACKGROUND


The core mission of the National Centers for Environmental Prediction is to save lives and protect property through the provision of weather analysis, forecasts, watches and warnings involving a wide range of atmospheric systems affecting the  and the surrounding oceans.  NCEP is part of the National Weather Service.  NCEP is composed of the following Service Centers: 

(1)    (AWC)

(2)    (CPC)

(3)   Environmental  (EMC)

(4)   Hydrometeorological  (HPC)

(5)   NCEP Central Operations (NCO)	

(6)    (OPC)

(7)    (NHC)

(8)   Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC)

(9)    (SPC) 

Currently, AWC, SPC, NHC, and HPC receive WSR-88D data (mosaic imagery/products and single site imagery/products) from a vendor and single site imagery/products from NOAAport.  These Service Centers display the radar data using the National-Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System (N-AWIPS) software after the radar data are retrieved from the vendor’s system located at each .  In addition, radar data are displayed on a stand-alone government workstation which has vendor provided software, capable of acquiring and displaying single site imagery or mosaics.  



NCEP meteorologists perform a more complete 'meteorological watch' using the many radars and National Mosaic products provided in real-time under the existing NCEP radar data contract.  


OBJECTIVE


The objective of this contract is to make the following types of radar data available to Government systems at each participating :


National-scale, high resolution radar mosaics.  See section 3.10 for additional details.

WSR-88D Product Data, including Dual Polarization (Dual Pol) fields as they come on line, and Terminal Doppler Weather Radar (TDWR) Product Data collected from the Radar Product Central Collection Dissemination Service (RPCCDS) / NOAAPORT to be a minimum of those data in section 3.10 except when a product is not created from the TDWR.         


ACRONYMS 


The following acronyms are used in this document:


AP		Anomalous Propagation 

AVSET	Automated Volume Scan Evaluation and Termination 

AWC	 

AWIPS-II	Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System II

COTR	Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative 

CPC		 

EMC	Environmental Modeling Center

FAA		Federal Aviation Administration

FIPS	Federal Information Processing Standards

FTP		File Transfer Protocol

HPC	Hydrometeorological  

IF		Intermediate Frequency

LAN	Local Area Network

NCO	NCEP Central Operations

NCEP	National Centers for Environmental Prediction

NFS		Network File System

NIST	National Institute of Standards and Technology

NOAA	National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

NWS	National Weather Service

N-AWIPS	National Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System

NHC	

OPC	 

RF		Radio Frequency

RPCCDS	Radar Product Central Collection Dissemination Service 

SCP		Secure Copy

SFTP	Secure File Transfer Protocol

SPC		

SWPC 	 

TCP/IP	Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol 

TDWR	Terminal Doppler Weather Radar

WSR-88D	Weather Surveillance Radars -1988, Doppler


SCOPE


NCEP’s Service Centers AWC, SPC, NHC, and HPC require access to real-time radar data sets to perform their respective missions, specifically, using data from the nationwide Weather Surveillance Radar-1988 Doppler (WSR-88D) network and from the FAA’s Terminal Doppler Weather Radar (TDWR) network.  


STATEMENT OF WORK



The contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel, material, equipment, services and facilities (except as otherwise specified), to perform the following Statement of Work/Specifications.


NCEP Service Centers must have the ability to acquire and display, simultaneously, real-time data from WSR-88Ds in all 50 states.  The NCEP Service Centers are migrating from N-AWIPS hardware/software to the Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System II (AWIPS-II) and the radar data received from this contract will need to be used in the new system.  A critical requirement of the NCEP Service Centers is to be able to access in real time national radar mosaic products.  


RADAR DATA


The contractor shall provide real-time data from WSR-88Ds in all 50 states.

The data shall be in a format compatible with N-AWIPS and AWIPS-II.

The contractor shall provide a solution that is capable of providing 99.9% data availability per year.  The high data availability solution is required to ensure that data are available during significant weather events such as landfalling hurricanes and severe weather outbreaks.

The data shall be ingested automatically without human intervention.

The storage of the data shall be for at least 20 most recent data periods per site on the solution.  
  

TECHNICAL SUPPORT


The contractor shall provide 24-hour per day customer support to solve data acquisition, software and hardware problems with a 2-hour (support personnel) response time after a trouble ticket is opened.

The contractor shall provide a fully capable support staff providing responsive assistance to Government personnel in an event of data quality problems, data flow problems, or other questions about data formats, etc., that may arise.  A direct Government to Contractor customer support relationship is required when data acquisition problems occur or the quality of data received is in question.


SOLUTION


The contractor shall provide a solution with a backup data acquisition source if the primary data acquisition source such as a satellite data ingest at a Government site is down. 

The backup acquisition source shall be functional and available to Government personnel to activate in the event of a primary data source outage. This activation may involve Government computers accessing a contractor’s server (e.g. FTP/SFTP/SCP over the Internet) at the contractor’s site.

If the Contractor’s chooses to implement a solution which requires component installation at the Government sites, the solution shall provide dual copper gigabit Ethernet interfaces (1000 BaseT) for Government Local Area Network (LAN)/Private LAN connection.

If the Contractor’s chooses to implement a solution which requires components installation at the Government sites, the Contractor’s solution located at the Government sites shall provide Network File System (NFS) version 3 and http access to allow Government computers access to the solution to obtain radar data.

The contractor shall provide a solution capable of acquiring standard unaltered WSR-88D and TDWR Product Data in real time and in the various scan modes such as precipitation mode, including Automated Volume Scan Evaluation and Termination (AVSET) when used, clear air mode, and in Dual Pol data mode when it begins to be distributed. 

The contractor shall provide a solution capable of acquiring high resolution, national-scale mosaics of reflectivity and other value-added mosaics. 

If the contractor chooses to implement a solution that requires installation of components at the Service Centers, then each Service Center shall ingest data within 60 seconds, both to the contractor’s application software as well as to Government computer systems accessing the radar data.  The latency for data ingest shall not exceed 60 seconds from the time radar data become available from either NOAAPORT or the RPCCDS to the contractor until the data can be processed and made available to the Government computer systems for display.

The contractor solution shall be capable of acquiring any combination or subset of standard, unaltered WSR-88D/TDWR product data from RPCCDS/NOAAPORT in real-time, where the minimum products are listed in section 3.10.  

The contactor solution shall provide for methods of specifying which data sets should be routinely ingested, what product types, and into which storage locations.

The contractor solution shall include a display to allow the Government staff to ensure the system is acquiring data correctly.  In other words, the solution shall have a quick look display capability to monitor data acquisition and processing.

The contractor solution shall have an application display which will allow a forecaster to select products from WSR-88D/TDWR sites, or mosaics, stored on the contractor’s server system.

The display shall allow a forecaster to select the WSR-88D sites or products to be acquired by the solution.

The contractor solution shall be capable of acting as a server for making acquired data sets available to Government systems via each 's Local Area Network (LAN) utilizing TCP/IP protocol (Ethernet).  

The contractor solution shall have the ability to provide real time Product Arrival Notification (event driven notifications) over the TCP/IP to facilitate the timely distribution of radar data to other Government systems from the vendor solution.  


IT SECURITY

In order to maintain a consistent security posture, the Contractor shall be required to provide an operating system (OS) that is secure, robust, and can be updated with the latest security patches and fixes.

The contractor’s solutions shall be maintained in accordance with Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-37 Rev 1.

The contractor shall certify and approve, within 72 hours (beginning during regularly scheduled business hours), all vendor operating system patches and distribute any contractor updates within the same time period to the Government sites and designated Government contacts.  This includes testing and ensuring patches do not degrade the performance of the solution.

The patch information shall also be provided to the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) and to designated Government Points-of-Contact at each .

DOCUMENTATION

The contractor shall provide one complete paper set of operational manuals available at each site and an electronic copy.  

Manuals shall specify all setup functions necessary to operate the solution, and any routine procedures required by the solution.

Manuals shall include trouble-shooting procedures to speed up solutions to common problems.

Manuals shall include basic theory of operations, program logic flow, file structure descriptions, program documentation, development procedures and troubleshooting procedures.

Manuals shall include documentation on the solution shall also include a block diagram of the hardware involved e.g. from a feed horn all the way to the workstation.

Manuals shall include information on all frequencies from the RF (Radio Frequency) side down to the IF (Intermediate Frequency).


ACCEPTANCE TESTING & SOLUTION CHECKOUT

The contractor shall assist the Government in the checkout of the solutions with the on-site consultation and diagnostic service.  

The solutions proposed shall be delivered separately to each site.

The contractor shall work in concert with the Government to develop and execute plans for transitioning data feeds from the current vendor’s systems to the new solutions within 90-days of contract award.

The contractor shall be able to adhere to Government’s transition schedule.


EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE

The contractor shall be responsible for disposal of any extra materials during or after equipment maintenance, repairs, and other related work activities at a Government facility.  This shall include the disposal of damaged equipment that is subsequently replaced, e.g. damaged spider arms for a satellite dish, satellite dish, and mounting brackets, etc., within 2 business days.


REPORTING

The contractor shall submit to the Government a progress report every 10th day of each month after the effective date of the contract during the period of performance.  The contractor shall deliver progress reports that summarize the work completed during the performance period, the work forecast for the following period.  The report shall also include any additional information--including findings and recommendations -- that may assist the Government in evaluating progress under this contract. The first report shall include a detailed work outline of the project and the contractor’s planned phasing of work by reporting period. 

The monthly report shall include data/service availability details and address the performance standards listed in Section 8.  


TRAINING

In conjunction with the installation and checkout of the solutions at each Service Center, the Contractor shall provide one (1) to three (3) days of on site training in integrating the various solutions into the present site environment, an operational environment, in the least disruptive manner possible.  

This training shall be for two (2) to four (4) Government personnel at each Service .


RADAR DATA PRODUCTS SPECIFICATIONS

The Contractor shall supply mosaic reflectivity data products to participating Service Centers.  Three different geographical mosaic areas are required: a mosaic of radar imagery across the lower 48 contiguous , a mosaic of radar imagery across , and a mosaic of radar imagery across .  The mosaics shall have the following specifications:

Mosaics of reflectivity shall be composed of data gathered from all commissioned WSR-88D and TDWR units located within the covered area.  

Mosaics of reflectivity shall consist of radar data having valid times differing by no more than six (6) minutes.

Mosaics of reflectivity shall be updated at a frequency that assures mosaic data residing at a participating Center to be composed of data not more than ten (10) minutes old.  If one or more WSR-88Ds/TDWRs are not generating radar data, mosaic imagery should continue to be produced.

At a minimum, two mosaics of reflectivity shall be provided, one containing a horizontal resolution of two (2) kilometers and the second containing a horizontal resolution of one (1) kilometer.  Horizontal discontinuities shall be less than one (1) pixel.

Mosaics of reflectivity shall contain 256 reflectivity data levels (i.e. from the 8-bit single site products) 

Automated techniques and human intervention techniques shall be utilized when necessary to assure that mosaics of reflectivity do not contain excessive ground clutter and anomalous propagation (AP) caused by reflections from the ground, buildings, geographical and atmospheric features.  As Dual Pol radars become operational throughout the NWS, suppression of biological clutter (e.g. birds, bugs) shall also be included.

The WSR-88D National Composite Mosaic Products shall include three different geographical mosaic areas (lower 48 states, , and ).  When 8-bit single site data is available then mosaics shall be 8-bit; when only 4-bit single site data is available then mosaics shall be 4-bit.  The horizontal resolution shall be at the highest possible level based on the level-III single site data product.

A national-scale mosaic of Vertically Integrated Liquid (VIL) product with a horizontal resolution of four (4) kilometers.

A national-scale mosaic of low dbz non-filtered (Clear Air Mode) reflectivity product, as well as a national-scale mosaic of non-filtered (Precipitation Mode) reflectivity. 

Other National Composite mosaic products shall include Composite Reflectivity, Cumulative Rainfall (hourly, storm and daily) Totals and Echo Tops products with a horizontal resolution of four (4) kilometers.

Examples include: mosaic of Mesocyclones (141/md) (e.g. color coded by mesocyclone strength index), mosaic of Tornado Vortex Signature (61/tvs) (e.g. color-coded by either low-level or maximum delta velocity [LLDV, MDF]), mosaic of Hail Index (59/hi), mosaic of Storm Tracking Information (58/sti) (e.g. extrapolated forward 60 minutes where tracks could be color-coded by storm speed).

When Dual Pol Data are operational, high resolution mosaic base reflectivity at 1km horizontal resolution, and if available, composite reflectivity at 1km horizontal resolution.

The contractor shall supply unaltered WSR-88D and TDWR product data to participating Service Centers with the following specifications along with RPG headers:

Base Reflectivity (BR) at RPG HEADER:  20/R, 94/DR, 181/R, 186/DR

Composite Reflectivity (CR) & the Combined Attribute Table at RPG HEADER:  37/CR

Echo Tops (ET) at RPG HEADER:  41/ET

Vertically Integrated Liquid (VIL) at RPG HEADER:  57/VIL

Base Radial Velocity (BRV) at RPG HEADER:  99/DV, 182/DV

The Storm Relative Mean Radial Velocity Map (SRM) at RPG HEADER:  56/SRM

Velocity Azimuth Display (VAD) WInd Profile (VWP) at RPG HEADER:  48/VWP

One Hour Total Precipitation (OHP) at RPG HEADER:  78/OHP

Three Hour Total Precipitation (THP) at RPG HEADER:  79/THP

Storm Total Precipitation (STP) at RPG HEADER:  80/STP

Digital Precipitation Array (DPA) at RPG HEADER: 81/DPA

Dual Polarization Data, when operational, at:

Correlation Coefficient (CC)

Differential Reflectivity (ZDR)

Specific Differential Phase Shift (KDP)

Dual Pol Precipitation Rate (DPR)

Base Reflectivity for Horizontal Polarization (ZH)

The WMO headers for the above mentioned products can be found at http://www.nws.noaa.gov/tg/noaaport_radar_products.pdf.  Also, some products may only be available from the Radar Product Central Collection Dissemination Service (RPCCDS).



GENERAL INFORMATION

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance for this SOW is as follows

Base Period – 06/15/11 – 06/14/12

Option Year 1 – 06/15/12 – 06/14/13

Option Year 2 – 06/15/13 – 06/14/14

Option Year 3 – 06/15/14 – 06/14/15

Option Year 4 – 06/15/15 – 06/14/16

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

The contractor shall meet security requirements listed in Section 3.4.

TASK ORDER/CONTRACT TRANSITION

The contractor shall meet contract transition requirements listed in Section 3.6.

QUALITY CONTROL

The contractor provided radar data shall meet specification listed in Section 3.10.









GOVERNMENT FURNISHED RESOURCES

NCEP will provide access to physical space in its Service Centers for equipment installation if needed for the proposed solution.


DELIVERABLES AND PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY








Performance Objective

Performance Standard

Method of Performance Assessment

Deliverable

Radar mosaic and single site imagery are available for ingest at NCEP Service Centers

99.9% data availability per year

Review of the monthly report

Monthly Report

Technical support is provided on a 24 hour per day basis

Response to support calls is provided within 2 hours of the call

Review of the monthly report

Monthly Report

Solution is capable of ingesting radar data 

Radar data is ingested within 60-seconds from the time it is available 

Solution performance at each 

Radar Data

Patches are applied to the solution to maintain IT security standards

Patches are applied within 72 hours 

Patching activity identified in the monthly report

Security Patches

Operational manuals  are provided

Paper and electronic operational manuals are provided within 5-business days of solution implementation

Review of the monthly report

Monthly report

Operational data feeds are transitioned from current system to new solution

Operational data feeds are transitioned from current system to new solution within 90-days of contract award

Review of the monthly report

Radar data ingest feeds

Extra materials are removed after maintenance and repair work from Service Centers

Extra materials are removed after maintenance and repair work from Service Centers within 2 business days

Random site inspection by COTR or designee

Clean Site

Monthly report is delivered to COTR

Monthly report is delivered to COTR on the 10th day of each month

Verification of delivery date of monthly report

Monthly Report