Gathering/Strategy for "Recent usability Expert Review and Usability Testing (International tests in Spanish, Persian, and Kurdish" Question ­ Does the above statement mean vendor will need to develop and perform that testing, or that the testing has already been completed and the vendor will need to review the results and develop new design proposals based on the information gathered? The new design should take into account the testing on the old design (Expert Review and Usability Testing) and incorporate these suggestions and findings into the new design. As an a la carte item the designer may include some additional testing on the new design. This needs to be done quickly. Because of the time constraints, we assume the designer would want to use some form of remote, web-based testing.

Question 1. What is the main programming language being used for www.voanews.com? We are using Velocity to incorporate the designs into our Clickability CMS. However, this solicitation is for only the html, css, and the javascript or jQuery needed to make working html pages. Our internal technical unit will take these html master pages and turn them into Clickability templates. 2. What other technologies are being used for the site? We are using a number of technologies, but the solicitation is for just design, specifically for html master pages. 3. It seems as though you have an on-demand section; would you be interested in doing live broadcasts across all devices including mobile? We do have live streams, and use the Platform for serving up programs and videos. This is not part of this solicitation. 4. Are you currently looking to create an optimized Verizon for mobile? Mobile is not part of this solicitation. This is for the desktop site only. 5. Are you considering video playback on mobile? Mobile is not part of this solicitation. This is for the desktop site only. 6. Would you be interested in updating users with News via text messaging? Mobile and SMS are not part of this solicitation. This is for the desktop site only. 7. Would you be interested in re a re-brand of your logo? No. We are happy with our logo.

8. Would you be interested in re-constructing your search feature? We just initiated a Google search. This solicitation is for design only, and not functionality. 9. If necessary in Phase 2-Design and Phase 3-Coding if the requirements gathering process reveals information that would require the Design and Coding estimates to be lowered or raised? We are asking for a bid on a design that has yet to be defined or created. The best way to bid on this would be a per page price on a specific number of master pages. Depending on the design, the final number of pages could go up or down, but the per page price should be the same.

