Date:	August 1, 2011



Subject:	Request for Quotation (RFQ) No:  FBI – 2011_341635













Ladies and Gentlemen:



The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) would like to invite your firm to submit a quotation for subject services, as outlined in the statement of work found below. 



The quote must be submitted on or before 1600 Hours Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), on Friday, August 26, 2011 by e-mail to the attention of Brian Chrostowski at .  



All questions in regard to this RFQ should be submitted on or before 1600 Hours EDT, Monday, August 15, 2011 by e-mail at . 

	









Sincerely,





								Brian Chrostowski

								Contracting Officer

								Finance Division

								Procurement  Section


Statement of Work



Background



The FBI has a requirement for an Internet-based news monitoring service, which shall collect and furnish real-time television and internet broadcast information from the sources reflected below.   The storage/archival system must have the capability of storing up to six (6) months of broadcast/internet media.  This is to cover international, national, and local television markets.   This service shall allow FBI employees the ability to search, retrieve, view, disseminate, and archive broadcast material.



Tasks 



The contractor shall:



Provide an Internet-based television and internet broadcast monitoring service, which shall store and operated on the contractor's mainframe. No material, software, or hardware is to be housed on FBI networks or in FBI facilities;

Provide Internet-based service accessible from any computer connected to the Internet;

Provide access to this network for up to minimum of 65 users, with an option to increase users at any time with written notice;

Provide the ability to search local, national, and international television and internet markets for video clips and transcripts. Video clips and transcripts must be searchable by program name, date, and channel;

Provide users the ability to email unlimited number of selected clips/transcripts to any email address;

Provide storage of selected clips for up to a minimum of nine (9) months;

Sources

Provide search, archival, and dissemination capability from networks to include but not limited to:  

Al-Jazeerah

A&E

BBC

CNN

CNN Headline News

C-Span 1 to C-Span3

The Discovery Channel

MSNBC

Fox News Channel

National Geographic Channel

Provide search, archival, and dissemination capability to include local, national and international television and internet networks in the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico, to include but not limited to search areas defined to the 210 largest viewing audience Designated Market Areas as defined by Nielsen Media Research (see attachment).

Reproduction

Provide online ordering in application of selected clips on DVD. Please give price per DVD and any volume discounts on a separate line item in your quote. 



General Requirements



The contractor shall provide:

Service 24 hours per day, seven days a week, 365 days per year;

Technical support to users 24 hours per day, seven days a week, 365 days per year;

Training for up to 15 employees on the use and retrieval of the service, to include but not limited to any training manuals, booklets, etc and on line support; and

Provide a main point of contact for technical and administrative issues.



Maintenance Service



Service shall be accessible 24 hours per day, seven days a week, 365 days per year, with the exception of routine maintenance, which should be reflected in offer as to the frequently of  maintenance. If the system becomes inaccessible for more than two (2) hours, other than predetermined routine maintenance, the contractor shall:

Contact the COTR by e-mail on the status of the problem, what remedy is being done to restore the service, and the anticipated down time;

Contact all users by e-mail as to the problem, and the anticipated down time;

If accessibility is disturbed for more than 12 hours, the contractor shall pro-rate the monthly fee by 24 hours.



In the event that the service remains out-of-service beyond five (5) calendar days, the contractor shall provide the COTR and the CO by e-mail on the status of the problem and the remedy to restore the service.  The Government may elect if service cannot be restored in a reasonable time to cancel the service in its entirety with no penalty.

Reports



Quarterly:  The Contractor shall provide a concise written quarterly report to the COTR, and shall include an overview of usage by each user.  This report should also include a summary of any service outage, other than routine maintenance in the quarterly report.  The report shall be due at close of business on the 10th calendar day of the following month of each quarter.  

The contractor shall:

safeguard all information that discloses the identity of the users, and the information requested; and 

Protect information from access by unauthorized contractor personnel.



Evaluation Factors



Quotes will be evaluated on a lowest price technically acceptable basis. Contractor must meet all of the requirements listed in this solicitation or they will not be considered technically acceptable.

Period of Performance



The term of this contract shall be from contract award through one year with four (4) one year options.   The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor, and shall not exceed five (5) years

Instructions to Offerors



Please submit your quote to the Contracting Officer Brian Chrostowski via e-mail at  on or before August 15, 2011 2:00PM EDT. Quotes must be in an Office or PDF format and must be 12pt font with standard margins and no more than 10 pages in length. Submitting any separate pricing data may be added as an attachment and will not be counted towards your quote page count, but must follow the same guidelines. Pricing data should include FOB destination shipping and show the price of the first year as well as the four option years asked for in this solicitation. Pricing should also reflect the monthly costs that will be invoiced to the FBI.

All questions must be submitted to the Contracting Officer Brian Chrostowski via e-mail at  on or before August 1, 2011 2:00PM EDT. 

Invoicing



All invoices shall be submitted via e-mail to both the COTR Ken Hoffman at  and the CO Brian Chrostowski at  on a monthly basis. 



Clauses Incorporated by Reference



52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items    (June 2010) 



(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights— 

(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and 

(2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. 

(b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. 

(c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. 

(d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR , Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. 

(e) Definitions. The clause at FAR , Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. 

(f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. 

(g) Invoice. 

(1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include— 

(i) Name and address of the Contractor; 

(ii) Invoice date and number; 

(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; 

(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; 

(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; 

(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; 

(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; 

(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and 

(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. 

(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. 

(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. 

(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. 

(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. 

(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act () and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. 

(h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. 

(i) Payment.— 

(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. 

(2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act () and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. 

(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see (b) for the appropriate EFT clause. 

(4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. 

(5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the— 

(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); 

(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; 

(C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and 

(D) Contractor point of contact. 

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. 

(6) Interest. 

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. 

(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. 

(iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by  if— 

(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; 

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or 

(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see ). 

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. 

(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: 

(A) The date fixed under this contract. 

(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. 

(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on— 

(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; 

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or 

(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. 

(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. 

(j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: 

(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or 

(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. 

(k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. 

(l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. 

(m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. 

(n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. 

(o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. 

(p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. 

(q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. 

(r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with  relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts;  relating to officials not to benefit; , et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; , Anti-Kickback Act of 1986;  and  relating to whistleblower protections; , Fly American; and  relating to procurement integrity. 

(s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 

(1) The schedule of supplies/services. 

(2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. 

(3) The clause at . 

(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. 

(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. 

(6) Other paragraphs of this clause. 

(7) The . 

(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(9) The specification. 

(t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). 

(1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. 

(2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR , the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of ; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. 

The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. 

(ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. 

(3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see , Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. 

(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

			(End of clause) 

52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive                                         Orders—Commercial Items.  (May 2011) 



(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__ (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

__ (4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

__ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) ( note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). 

__ (7) , Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). 

__ (8) , Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (9) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (10) [Reserved] 

__ (11)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (12)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (13) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

__ (14)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

__ (15) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

__ (16) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (17)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

__ (18) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (19) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (20) , Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

__ (21)  , Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (). 

__ (22)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011). 

__ (23)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011). 

__ (24) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

X_ (25) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

X_ (26) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

X_ (27) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

X_ (28) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(). 

X_ (29) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

__ (30) , Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

__ (31) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

__ (32) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

__ (33)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (34) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (35)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

__ (36) , Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513). 

__ (37) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (38)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (39) , Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

__ (40) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (41) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (42) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (43) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (44) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

__ (45) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

__ (46) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (47) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (48) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (49)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

X_ (1) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

X_ (2) , Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

X_ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

X_ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at , Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR , Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 

 (End of clause) 



52.2176 	Option for Increased Quantity.  (Mar 1989)

The Government may increase the quantity of supplies called for in the Schedule at the unit price specified. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor at any time during the contract terms.  Delivery of the added items shall continue at the same rate as the like items called for under the contract, unless the parties otherwise agree. (End of clause) 



52.217-9 	Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. (Mar 2000)



(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within thirty days (30); provided that the Government shall give the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least forty-five (45)  prior to the expiration date of the contract.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years.  



