This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice.  This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a separate Request for Proposal (RFP) will not be issued.  The solicitation number is LGCAC-5-0292 and is issued as a Request for Quotation (RFQ).  This solicitation document and incorporated provisions are those in effect though Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-67 and DFARS change notice 20130710. 



This is a notice that this order is a total set-aside for a small business concern. Only quotes submitted by a small business concern will be accepted by the Government.  Any quote that is submitted by a contractor that is not a small business concern will not be considered for award.   The NAICS code is 334614 and the size standard is 750 employees.  The offeror shall be an authorized dealer and shall quote on an all or none basis. Written quotes are required (oral offers will not be accepted). Submission of quotes must be in accordance with FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors, Commercial Items. The Government will award a contract on the basis of the lowest priced technically acceptable offer. Please complete all information requested below (Cage Code, DUNS, etc.). 



Mandatory Registrations. To be eligible to receive an award resulting from this solicitation, registration with the System for Award Management (SAM) must be current, no exceptions. The System for Award Management is the DOD Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. To register, please visit . 

Discussions. Since award will be based on initial responses, offerors are highly encouraged to quote their most advantageous pricing in their initial response. The government intends to award a purchase order without discussions with respective vendors/quoters.  The government however, reserves the right to conduct discussions if deemed in its best       interest. 



The vendor shall submit the response to this RFQ via email to the Contract Administrator: Andrew S. Sorensen, Ph: (210) 671-1726, E-mail: ; no later than 12:00 noon CST on August 16, 2013 – Friday (or sooner if possible) in order to be considered timely. The Contracting Officer for this solicitation is Dorothy Coleman; ; Ph: (210) 671-1728. Any quote, modification, revision, or withdrawal of a quote received after the exact time specified for receipt of quote is “late” and will not be considered, unless the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late quote would not unduly delay the award and acquisition or it was the only quote received. 



The following clauses and provisions are applicable to this solicitation. For full text reference, go to  or .



FAR 52.202-1…………..………	Definitions  

FAR 52.203-6 (Alt I) ………….	Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government 

FAR 52.204-7 ………….………	Central Contractor Registration

FAR 52.204-8 ………….………	Annual Representations and Certifications

FAR 52.204-10 ………………..	Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards.  

FAR 52.204-13 ………….…..…	Central Contractor Registration Maintenance

FAR 52.212-1 ………….………	Instructions to Offerors

FAR 52.212-2 ………….………	Evaluation – Commercial Items (Jan 1999).

FAR 52.212-3 ………….………	Offeror Representations and Certifications – Commercial Items

FAR 52.212-4 ………….………	Contract Terms and Conditions – Commercial Items

FAR 52.212-5 ………….………	Contract Terms & Conditions Required to Implement Status or Executive Orders – Commercial Items

FAR 52.219-6 ………….………	Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011).

FAR 52.219-13 ………….…..…	Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (NOV 2011).

FAR 52.219-14 ………….…….	Limitations on Subcontracting (NOV 2011).  

FAR 52.219-28 ………….…..…	Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012)

FAR 52.222-3 …..……….…..…	 Labor 

FAR 52.222-19 ………….…..…	 Labor 

FAR 52.222-21 ………….…..…	Prohibition of  Facilities 

FAR 52.222-26 ………….…..…	 Opportunity

FAR 52.222-50 ………….…..…	

FAR 52.223-18 ………….…..…	Ban Text Messaging While Driving

FAR 52.232-1 ………….………	Payments

FAR 52.232-33 ………………...	Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration

FAR 52.333-3 ………….………	Protest After Award

FAR 52.237-2 ………….………	Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation

FAR 52.242-13 ………….…..…	Bankruptcy

FAR 52.246-17 ………...………	Warranty of Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature

FAR 52.246-19 …………….…	Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria

FAR 52.247-34 ……………..…	FOB Destination

FAR 52.252-1 ………….………	Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference

FAR 52.252-2 ………………….	Clauses Incorporated by Reference

FAR 52.252-5 ………….………	Authorized Deviations in Provisions

FAR 52.252-6 ………….………	Authorized Deviations in Clauses

DFAR 252.204-7003……… ….. 	Control of Government Personnel Work Product

DFAR 252.204-7004 (Alt A) ….. 	System for Award Management (Alt A)

DFAR 252.204-7007 (Alt A) ….. 	Annual Representations and Certifications (Alt A)

DFAR 252.209-7004 …………..	Subcontracting with Firms That Are Owned or Controlled by the Government of a Terrorist Country.

DFAR 252.211-7003 …………..	Item Identification & Valuation (Fill-in: TBD upon award)

DFAR 252.212-7001 …………..	Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Applicable to Defense Acquisitions of Commercial Items

DFAR 252.232-7003 ………….	Electronic Submission of Payment

DFAR 252.232-7006 ………….	Wide Area Workflow Payment Instructions (Fill-in: TBA upon award)

AFFARS 5352.201-9101 ……..	Ombudsman


ADDENDUM to 52.212-1 (Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items)

Addenda to 52.212-1(b), Submission of Offers. The paragraph is tailored as follows:

Paragraph (b)(4) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with paragraph A below under “ Addenda to 52.212-1.” 

Paragraph (b)(6) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with paragraph B below under “ Addenda to 52.212-1.”

Paragraph (b)(10) is deleted in its entirety.

Addenda to 52.212-1 (Offer Preparations Instructions)

The offeror must include the following in their quote:

A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail including the name of the RMA proposed (including version) to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary. 

The offeror shall submit two (2) copies of the following documentation:

Joint Integration and Testing Center (JITC) Records Management Application (RMA) Baseline Certification Letter.

JITC RMA Freedom Of Information/Privacy Act (FOIA & PA) Certification Letter.

Letter of Authority To Operate (ATO) from a DOD Branch of the Service.

The offeror shall complete the section B, Bid Schedule, provided in this solicitation, and submit the quote in accordance with these instructions. A unit price shall be proposed and inserted for each Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) and shall be rounded up to two decimal places. The extended amount must equal the unit price multiplied by the number/quantity of units.

Addendum to 52.212-1(c), Period of Acceptance of Offers. The paragraph is tailored as follows: “The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers.”

Addenda to 52.212-1(d), Multiple Offers. This paragraph is deleted in its entirety.

Addenda to 52.212-1(e), Multiple Offers. This paragraph is deleted in its entirety.



ADDENDUM to 52.212-2  Evaluation  – Commercial Items, Jan 1999.

Addenda to 52.212-2, Evaluation.
1.  Paragraph (a) is tailored as follows: 
“The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose quote conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. 



The following two factors shall be used to evaluate offers:
a) Technical Acceptability of the item offered to meet the Government requirement.
b) Price.



Technical Acceptability: The Government will first evaluate all timely quotes for technical acceptability. To be eligible for award a quote must be technically acceptable. To be technically acceptable all three technical factors listed below must be rated technically acceptable. If any technical factor is rated below acceptable, the overall quote will receive the rating of the lowest rated technical factor. Only quotes rated as technically acceptable will be evaluated for price.

Technical Factors:

Joint Integration and Testing Center (JITC) Records Management Application (RMA) Baseline Certification Letter.

JITC RMA Freedom Of Information/Privacy Act (FOIA & PA) Certification Letter.

Letter of Authority To Operate (ATO) from a DOD Branch of the Service.

Each technical factor will receive one of the ratings listed below:
Acceptable – The technical offer meets all of the standards identified in paragraph A identified in “ADDENDUM to 52.212-1 (Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items).”


Unacceptable – The technical offer fails to meet the standards identified in paragraph A identified in   “ADDENDUM to 52.212-1 (Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items).”



Price. The Government will then rank all Technically Acceptable offers by evaluated price. An offeror’s proposed estimated prices will be determined by multiplying the estimated quantities identified in the bid schedule by the proposed unit price for each CLIN to determine the extended amount for each CLIN. Estimated totals for each CLIN will then be totaled to determine the estimated total price for each offeror. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if unit prices are significantly unbalanced. An offerors offer may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government. After price evaluation is completed the Government will rank all Technically Acceptable proposals by evaluated price.

2.  Paragraph (b) is deleted in its entirety.



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4 (LACKLAND 0007) (FEB 11)

Paragraph (c) of Clause 52.212-4 is tailored as follows:

(c) Changes.  Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties with the exception of administrative changes, such as changes in the paying office, appropriations data, etc., which may be changed unilaterally by the Government.



FORMER AETC CLAUSES (LACKLAND 0009) (FEB 11)

Smoking in AETC Facilities
Contractors are advised that the Commander has placed restrictions on the smoking of tobacco products in AETC facilities.  AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, and its AETC Supplement 1, outline the procedures used by the commander to control smoking in our facilities.  Contractor employees and visitors are subject to the same restrictions as government personnel.  Smoking is permitted only in designated smoking areas.



JBSA Lackland Traffic Code
All applicable Traffic Codes will be enforced and apply to all personnel operating vehicles on JBSA Lackland.  They are extracted from LAFB Instruction 31-204.   For a complete listing of all JBSA Lackland Traffic Codes and all other applicable traffic policies and procedures, please contact the Contracting Office for a copy of LAFB Instruction 31-204.

Cell Phone Usage
Contractors are advised that LAFB Instruction 31-204 prohibits cellular telephone usage when approaching and entering any installation entry gate, or exiting of JBSA Lackland.  Cell phone usage by drivers on JBSA Lackland is prohibited in moving vehicles unless used with a hands-free device.  The 802nd Security Forces Squadron (SFS) is strictly enforcing this regulation.  Those found in violation of this regulation are subject to be ticketed.

Base Fire Prevention Program
The contractor will be required to comply with the applicable Fire Prevention Program, for JBSA Lackland the applicable directive is LAFB Instruction 32-2001, dated 20 Feb 04.  Contact the Contracting Office for a copy of LAFB Instruction 32-2001.



SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED SOLICITATIONS AND CONTRACTS (LACKLAND 0010) (FEB 11)



1.  Base Entry and Vehicle Control Requirements.  Contractor shall comply with AFFARS Clause 5352.242-9000, “Contractor access to Air Force installations” which is hereby incorporated by reference if not otherwise included.  Contractor personnel shall comply with all on-base traffic laws.  Background investigations will be conducted by the government at no additional cost to the contractor on all contractor personnel prior to issuance of any base pass. 

 

2.  Government Computer Access Requirements.  If this contract requires contractor personnel to have access to government computers, contractor personnel requiring access to government computers shall successfully complete, a National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) request, before obtaining access to the computer.  These investigations shall be submitted by the government at no additional cost to the contractor.  All contractor employees affected by this requirement must have completed an acceptable submission that complies with all directions for completion of the investigation request through the government security office within 30 calendar days of Contract Award or Notice of Award.  To begin this process, all affected contractor employees must complete within 15 calendar days after Contract Award or Notice of Award Standard Form 85P worksheet that can be downloaded from  .  The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) or Government Inspector when the worksheet is complete.  The affected employee will then be scheduled by the government for two or more appointments to complete the security package.  If at any point after submission of the security worksheet, disqualifying information is discovered or developed, the government reserves the right to deny computer access.  In this instance the Contracting Officer will notify the contractor of the denial. That individual will no longer be allowed to perform duties requiring computer access.  After submission of the complete security package through the security office and completion of an adjudicated NACI, contractor employees may obtain their “Common Access Card” (CAC) for the duration of their contract, unless disqualifying information is subsequently discovered.  In this instance access will be revoked.  The NACI adjudication process normally takes 2 to 5 months after submission of the package. Contractor shall comply with AFFARS Clause 5352.242-9001 Common Access Cards (CACs) for Contractor Personnel which is hereby incorporated by reference if not otherwise included.  The contractor shall comply with DODD 5200.08R Physical Security Program, (Chapter 3, Section C.3) requirements.

3.  Installation Access.  Criminal History Check will be conducted on all prime/subcontractor employees requiring base access. The contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer and the Information Protection Office a current list of employees needing access within 3 working days after receiving award or Notice of Award.  The list shall include employee’s name, date of birth, state driver’s license/state ID number and state of issue.  Notifications of contractor employee additions and deletions shall be provided with the same information listed above and within 3 working days.  Within 10 business days after receipt of the list the Government will notify the Contractor that installation access passes are available for those employees clearing the criminal history check.  The duration of any pass issued will not exceed one year or the duration of the contract, whichever is shorter.  This process will be repeated at the exercise of any option period.



4.  Government Data.  The Contractor shall manage all data created for Government use or legally controlled by the Government, in support of the functional activity or required by AF publication, IAW with the records management procedures in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33 - 322, Records Management Program,  Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,  and the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AFRDS) located at  



5.  Reporting Requirements.  The contractor shall comply with AFI 71-101, Volume 1, Criminal Investigations and Volume-2, Protective Service Matters and AFI 31-401 (Chapter 8).  Contractor shall report to Security Forces any information or circumstances which may pose a threat to DOD or contractor personnel, resources, or DOD information. 



6.  Freedom of Information.  The contractor shall not respond to any Freedom of Information Act request or release any information in response to a Freedom of Information request.  Any request for information received by the contractor under the Freedom of Information Act will be referred to the Contracting Officer.  



7.  Physical Security.  The contractor shall comply with Force Protection Condition (FPCON) procedures, Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAMS) and local search/identification requirements.

The contractor shall safeguard all government property, including controlled forms, provided for contractor use.  At the close of each work period, government training equipment, ground aerospace vehicles, facilities, support equipment, and other valuable materials shall be secured.  



8.  Key Control.  The contractor shall safeguard all keys issued by the government and ensure they are used only by authorized contractor personnel. The contractor shall not duplicate issued keys and shall report lost keys to the contracting officer immediately.  The contractor will be charged for lost keys, re-keying, and lock replacement as applicable.  


9.  Additional Security Requirements.  NACI’s will be IAW Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12).  If this contract requires access to classified materials the contractor shall comply with DOD 5200.1-R,  AFI 31-401, AFI 33-201, Volume 1, and Volume 2 (COMSEC) , AFSSI 7700 (Emission Security), AFSSI 8502, (Organizational Computer Security), and AFPD 16-14, (Information Protection), and Operations Security (OPSEC) Instructions.



10.  Unescorted Entry to Restricted/Controlled Areas.  If this contract requires unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the contractor shall comply with DOD 5200.2-R, Appendix 1, and AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management (Paragraph 3.24).  If the performance of this contract requires unescorted entry to a restricted/controlled area, personnel must have a favorably adjudicated NACI investigation.  All contractor employees affected by this requirement must have completed an acceptable submission that complies with all directions for completion, of the investigation request through the government security office within 30 calendar days of Contract Award or Notice of Award.  To begin this process, all affected contractor employees must complete within 15 calendar days after Contract Award or Notice of Award Standard Form 85P worksheet that can be downloaded from  . The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) or Government Inspector when the worksheet is complete.  The affected employee will then be scheduled by the government for two or more appointments to complete the security package.  If at any point after submission of the security worksheet, disqualifying information is discovered or developed, the government reserves the right to deny entry to restricted/controlled areas.  In this instance the Contracting Officer will notify the contractor of the denial. That individual will not be allowed to perform duties requiring access to restricted/controlled areas.  Upon receipt of a favorable investigation results and authorization by the appropriate commander, the contractor member will receive appropriate entry credentials for access to restricted/controlled areas, unless disqualifying information is subsequently discovered. In this instance access will be revoked.  The NACI adjudication process normally takes 2 to 5 months after submission of the package. 



11.  Credentials Turn-In.  Upon completion of performance, termination of the contract or termination of performance on this contract by any individual for any reason, the contractor shall turn in all CAC Cards, Base Identification Passes, Restricted Area Badges, and any other documents issued by the government to the Issuing office, COR, or Project Manager.  



12.  Weapons, Firearms, and Ammunition.  Contractor employees are prohibited from possessing weapons, firearms, or ammunition, on themselves or within their contractor-owned vehicle or privately-owned vehicle while on JBSA Lackland.

(End of Clause)



CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL CONDUCT (LACKLAND 0013) (FEB 11)

The contractor will ensure that its employees conduct themselves in a professional manner while on the installation and refrain from disruptive, offensive, or otherwise improper behavior that undermines order and discipline.  The contracting officer may direct the contractor to remove from performance of this contract on this installation any contractor employee engaging in such misconduct.


CONTRACT WORK HOURS (LACKLAND 0014) (MAY 2011)

1.  The contractor shall provide service on the dates and at the times specified in the contract.  Any deviation to these dates and times will be only as authorized by the Contracting Officer.  Contract performance requirements are governed by the contract.  Contractor personnel shall take their direction concerning their duty status and hours of performance from their contractor management chain and not from government personnel.



2.  The contractor is advised that special activities including but not limited to commander’s calls, sports days, employee quality of life meetings, late reporting, staggered reporting times, early release, down-days (goal days), physical fitness time, office picnics, and holiday parties are for government personnel only and do not apply to the contractor employees unless  expressly  stated otherwise in the contract.  If any special activity occurs, the contractor will continue to perform contract requirements unless expressly excused by the contracting officer.   In the event that the contracting officer excuses performance, the contractor understands that its employees’ participation in such event will not be at government expense.  The contractor is further advised that any special time off granted by the president or other competent authority is for government personnel only and does not apply to the contractor employees.



3.  If the contractor is prevented from performing due to acts beyond the contractor’s control including emergency base closure the standards in clause 52.212-4(f) and or 52.249-8/9/10 as appropriate will be applied to determine if the non-performance is excusable.  In the event of an emergency base closure due to weather or other contingency situation the contracting officer will notify the contractor of any changes in performance requirements.  The Contractor shall be responsible for instructing contractor personnel concerning their duty status.  Under no circumstances will the contractor be paid for supplies or services not delivered.  



Attachment List:

Schedule Bid

Statement of Work


Attachment 1 - Bid Schedule

The following represents the line items requested under this solicitation. Please provide a quote for the line items listed below. Failure to quote on all CLINs will render the quote unacceptable and ineligible for award consideration in the absence of discussion.





Please provide the information below:









Please complete the following Statement.



Acceptance of Requirement Statement. 

“Insert Quoter/Company Name” takes no exception to the Statement of Work, Bid Schedule, and requirement of the RFQ. “Insert Quoter/Company Name” will have the required qualified personnel in place at the required location(s) on the first day of the period of performance.

Statement of Work

for Records Managements Application to 

Support Air Force Personal Property



1.    SCOPE OF WORK.

Requirement: The Personal Property Activity Headquarters requires a Records Management Application (RMA) capable of supporting personal property operations for Joint Personal Property Shipping Offices (JPPSOs) throughout the Air Force. The RMA must have been tested and have current certifications that comply with the mandatory requirements of DoD 5015.2-STD for a system that contains Personally Identifiable Information (PII). These certifications must include both the Joint Integration and Testing Center (JITC) RMA Baseline and Freedom of Information/Privacy Act (FOIA & PA). The RMA must also have a current DOD accreditation, (i.e. Authority to Operate) with one of the service components. This requirement must support at least 350 local and geographically separated personnel located at the JPPSOs with fully functional thick client connections to include comprehensive workflow for processing records. The requirement must also support 1300 web-based users which require the ability to upload documentation in multiple formats and read only access to the records in the system based on user roles.  Beyond the certification requirements, the RMA must provide the following functionality: 


Support a Microsoft SQL Server 2008 database

Ability to store/retrieve documents based on metadata including wildcard searches

Creation of custom queries to ease retrieval of documentation 

Single sign-on which will function in a common access card environment

Digitally sign documents within the system 

Cross reference of documentation based on metadata

Attach a note or annotate documents with remarks

Web capability for read only access without a limitation on the number of connections

Document import process which uses comma separated value files to import document files in multiple formats

Ability to import faxes from a RightFax server

Export documents in their native format to include native email integration and saving to workstation in original format

Bulk export of documentation

Retain digital signature on exported documents if a document was digitally signed

Workflow capability which can be configured by local administrators

Retrieve/cache records and compress traffic on a local server at remote location 

Software developer’s kit for programming additional functionality

The ability to transfer all current records in the system to the new system with complete associated metadata (for systems outside of the PPA HQ’s control this must be provided as part of the installation and professional service) 



Responsible unit and installation location: 



Personal Property Activity Headquarters 
3515 S. General McMullen
Building 171 Suite 8001

San Antonio TX 78226-1710



Contractor Requirements:  This effort will also include the requirement for non-personal professional, highly reliable, and technically capable installation and configuration support. The contractor shall install the system per the JITC RMA Baseline and Freedom of Information/Privacy Act certification requirements.  The contractor shall configure thick client/web connectivity and establish workflow lifecycles which exist in the current Air Force personal property system, OnBase. The contractor shall provide 24x7 maintenance and support for upgrades, patches and troubleshooting of issues within defined response times for the RMA. 



Installation and Implementation: The contractor shall install the RMA in accordance with the Joint Integration Testing Center’s Baseline and Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act certified configuration.   



The contractor shall complete the initial configuration of document types and metadata associated with the document types to match the PPA HQ’s current configuration from OnBase.

The contractor shall duplicate the functionality of the following workflow from the PPA HQ’s OnBase configuration:

 OB - Movement Control

 OB - Coded Processing

 OB - DPM Processing

 OB - NTS HI Processing

 OB - NTS HO Processing

 OB - OTHER Processing

 OB - Change Request Processing

 Storage Expiration

 Storage Overdue

The contractor shall configure a web-based import function to upload personal property documentation.

The contractor shall configure single sign-on to work with Air Force network credentials.

The contractor will configure standard web access with common access card login for all web based users. 

Initial operational capability (IOC) needs to be established by January 30, 2014. IOC will include all functionality listed in this section. During IOC, Air Force personal property subject matter expert will evaluate the operational system and recommend modifications to the existing functionality to ensure that the RMA installation meets all of the personal property requirements. The final operational capability (FOC) will be established by April 15, 2014. FOC will be defined as the completion of the modifications which are recommended by the subject matter experts and approved by the PPA HQ.



Government Furnished Property: The following equipment and supplies will be supplied by the government; everything else is the responsibility of the contractor.


Hardware: PPA HQ will supply all hardware required to support the RMA.

Server operating systems: PPA HQ will provide operating systems for the servers used to support the RMA installation.

Database software: PPA HQ will provide Microsoft SQL server software to support the RMA installation. 



Annual Software Support: The contractor will provide 24x7 support, specifically available 24 hours per day, Monday through Sunday, 365 days per year. The contractor will provide a centralized number/web site for this technical support. An unlimited number of PPA HQ identified users shall be able to log cases via the telephone, email, and through a web site. If web troubleshooting and phone support cannot resolve the issue, the contract will provide onsite support to resolve the issue at no additional charge.



Definitions of Failure Severity: The following definitions are used to classify the requests and responses to fulfill maintenance and technical support:


Severity level 1—Critical: production system is down—The product is unusable resulting in a total disruption of work or other critical impact on operations. No workaround is available. Newly received cases will be assessed through discussions with the customer to confirm that they fulfill the criteria, and may be downgraded in priority if they do not.

Severity level 2—Serious: major feature/function failure—Operations are severely restricted. A workaround is available.

Severity level 3—Medium: minor feature/function failure—The product does not operate as designed, there is a minor impact on usage, and an acceptable workaround deployed.

Severity level 4—Low: minor problem—This can be classified as a request for documentation, general information, enhancement request, etc.


Response time based on failure severity:


Severity level 1 - 1 hour with prioritized support response

Severity level 2 - 4 hours

Severity level 3 - 6 hours

Severity level 4 - 1 business day



Updates: The contractor shall provide bug fixes, patches, and new Major Versions and Minor Versions when they are made generally available by manufacturer. When updates are released for RMA related software and reference manuals, the contractor shall make them electronically available to the PPA HQ.



Software versioning: 

A Major Version Update usually includes major enhancements or new functionality, which is denoted by a change to the left of the decimal point (for example version 7.0 to 8.0). 

A Minor Version Update usually includes functional enhancements, denoted by a change to the right of the first decimal point (for example version 7.3 to 7.4).



Software support online: The contractor shall provide 24x7 access for the PPA HQ to software support online, including access to support contracts, downloading updates, and managing your profile. Software support online will provide access to a knowledge database, including information regarding known symptoms and proposed solutions, specifications, and technical literature. 



Documentation: The contractor shall provide documentation updates along with the right to copy such updates for the licensed software that is covered by the support contract.

29 July 2013





FOB (Select):


 Destination


 Origin

Shipping Cost Included?


  Yes


  No


Pricing Quoted:


  Open Market




Payment Terms:

Payment Terms:

  Net 30 Days


  Other (Please specify)

Delivery Date:

Delivery Date:







  Net 30 Days


  Other (Please specify)









Company Name:

Company Name:















DUNS #

DUNS #







Required Cage Code Number:

Required Cage Code Number:

Required Cage Code Number:



POC:

POC:







Telephone #

Telephone #

Telephone #



E-Mail Address:

E-Mail Address:







Tax ID#:

Tax ID#:

Tax ID#:













Warranty Information:

Warranty Information:

Warranty Information:





















Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?

Do you have the capacity to invoice electronically (invoicing through WAWF)?





Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):



Business Size (please check all that apply in accordance to named NAICS code):

  Large

  Small

  Small

  8(a) Certified

  HUBZone

  HUBZone

 SDVOBS

  WOSB

  EDWOSB