DHA-RFI-15- Medical Evolving Practice Web-based Subscription and Reporting Service A. Background: TRICARE is the DoD healthcare program which serves active duty and retired military personnel, other uniformed service personnel, and their dependents. The Defense Health Agency (DHA) is accountable for the management and operation of the TRICARE program, which provides care to over 9.6 million beneficiaries worldwide. The DHA Medical Benefits and Reimbursement Office (MB&RO) is responsible for ensuring TRICARE policy is based on current evidence, is responsive to changes in the standard of care in the United States, and complies with the laws and regulations governing TRICARE. The DHA develops program policy that allows beneficiaries access to new and emerging treatment but does not expose them to untested, unsafe or ineffective (unproven) treatment which is specifically excluded from coverage by TRICARE regulation. 1. When the DHA determines whether drugs, devices, medical treatments and procedures are safe, effective, and the standard of care, and eligible for coverage, DHA must use the TRICARE Hierarchy of Reliable Evidence, as defined in 32 CFR 199.2 and 32 CFR 199.4(g)(15). One of the elements of this hierarchy is "published formal technology assessments." 2. To fulfill these requirements, DHA must have immediate access to medical technology assessments and reports which address the full range of healthcare technology including medical and surgical procedures, drugs, diagnostic and screening tests, and medical devices. 3. In order for DHA to make timely, sound, objective, evidenced-based benefit determinations, these assessments and reports must include: a. The most up-to-date medical evidence; b. A description of the technology at issue; c. A description and analysis of the strength and quality of the scientific evidence regarding efficacy, safety, clinical outcomes, patient selection criteria, comparison with alternative technologies; d. A clear, concise, consistent, easily understandable, well-recognized and accepted method to rate the safety and efficacy of the healthcare technology; e. A conclusion on whether the technology is the standard of care or is experimental (unproven). f. These assessments and reports must be easy to comprehend by lay persons and medical experts. 4. DHA needs access to evidence-based reports with quick turnarounds to support decisions on urgent, expedited cases and to keep current with the rapid and extensive changes in the standard of care. To ensure that TRICARE program policy is based on the most current scientific evidence, these assessments and reports must be updated at least annually. However, MB&RO may request a specific assessment or report be updated more frequently.

5. Given the extensive and rapid development of healthcare technologies, some of these technologies will have limited published evidence. In order to evaluate these new and emerging healthcare technologies, DHA needs access to a wide range of medical technology reports which evaluate the available evidence and which keep TRICARE program policy upto-date on the newest technologies under development. 6. DHA currently procures these services under FAR 6.302-1, Only One Responsible Source. B. Purpose of this Sources Sought: 1. The purpose of this sources sought is to conduct market research to determine if there are other vendors offering a commercially available subscription service capable of the providing the following: a. Medical Technology Directory: The Medical Technology Directory consists of over 350 comprehensive, evidence-based technology assessment reports on a wide range of healthcare technologies including medical and surgical procedures, drugs and pharmaceuticals, diagnostic and screening tests, alternative therapies, and medical devices/equipment. There are approximately 80 updated or new health technology evaluations per year. The literature search for each report is updated annually and reports are flagged for updating. b. Health Technology Brief Service: The Health Technology Brief Service allows the Government to request a report specific to one medical treatment, procedure or drug applied to one diagnosis and may be specified to one patient population (e.g., adults, pediatrics, males, females or all). An expedited report request shall be completed within 5 business days. Each health technology brief assesses new evolving practices and technologies for which there is some published evidence but not enough for a comprehensive assessment. The current brief library consists of approximately 150 briefs with approximately 80 new or updated reports produced yearly. The briefs include a short, plain-language summary, technology at-a-glance with links to a health technology profile. A literature search for each brief is updated annually. The health technology brief service also provides DHA access search capabilities and summary information on evolving practices. This service also includes just-in-time (JIT) expedited reports delivered in 3 to 5 business days of DHA's request. DHA requests up to 10 JIT reports per year. c. Health Technology Brief library: The Health Technology Brief Service Library is a repository of completed Health Technology Briefs with approximately 60 new or updated reports produced yearly. The medical technology assessments and reports provide a proprietary rating process to weigh the strength and quality of the evidence which is widely recognized and used by the health care industry, including TRICARE's managed care support contractors, in the development of their commercial program policy. d. Genetic Test Evaluation (GTE) Program: GTE reports are evidence-based health technology assessments of genetic tests across a range of conditions and applications. Each report provides a clear, objective view of the science behind a specific genetic test, the clinical evidence supporting the test, the testing laboratories involved, an explanation of how the test is used in clinical practice, appropriate patient selection criteria, and the likelihood of reimbursement for each type of test. Currently, there are approximately 300

reports focused on genetic and genomic tests available in a searchable, web-based library available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. New topics are added monthly. The current vendor's Genetic Test program also provides clinical algorithms (interactive decision trees), designed to provide guidance regarding patient selection in populations for which there are multiple possible genetic or genomic tests that may be considered. These webbased tools are available to all Genetic Test Evaluation subscribers. The current vendor's genetic test evaluations (GTEs) progress from a synopsis of the literature to a full assessment if there is a sufficient body of evidence. During the assessment, data is analyzed, graded and the vendor assigns a rating based on the strength and direction of the evidence for each clinical application under consideration. The vendor conducts annual literature searches for GTE reports to ensure that all of the reports are current. C. How to Respond: This is a Sources Sought only and is issued solely for market research and acquisition planning purposes. It does not constitute a Request for Proposal. Interested firms shall not send proposals in response to this Notice nor shall they contact any other individuals about this Notice or the requirement. Any information provided to DHA is strictly voluntary and given with no expectation of compensation and is clearly provided at no cost to the Government. A solicitation will not be issued at this time, and this Notice shall not be construed as a commitment by the Government to issue a solicitation nor does it restrict the Government to a particular acquisition approach. The Government may issue a formal solicitation on the Federal Business Opportunities (fbo.gov) website at a future date. If the Government issues a solicitation, the Government will conduct any source selection in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), as supplemented. Any future information on this acquisition (statement of work, specifications, solicitation, etc.) will be posted on www.fbo.gov. It is the responsibility of the prospective offeror to review this site regularly for updates and/or changes. DHA will not respond to questions about the policy issues raised in this notice. Please email responses to the primary point of contact listed in this notice. Please state "DHA-RFI-15- Medical Evolving Practice Web-based Subscription and Reporting Service Response" in the email subject line.

Appendix A ­ Please provide information on your medical subscription service's capabilities to support the following: SOURCES SOUGHT FORMAT: DHA requests vendors to provide responses in Microsoft Word (Times New Roman, 12-point font) in the following format. Section I. Company name, mailing address; and the name, phone number, fax number, and email of the designated point of contact. Please identify any available GSA contracts which DHA may use to place an order, including NAICS codes and SINs. Any applicable small business categories. Section II. The name and contact information for the business or other organization whose views are represented in the paper if that contact information is different from that provided in Section I. Section III. (NO MORE THAN 15 PAGES). Please provide responses to each of the questions listed below based on the current services DHA receives which are described above. 1. Medical Technology Directory: a. Please describe and identify how many comprehensive, evidence-based technology assessment reports your product has available and describe the healthcare technologies topics available, such as medical and surgical procedures, drugs and pharmaceuticals, diagnostic and screening tests, alternative therapies, and medical devices/equipment. b. How many updated or new health technology evaluations are available per year? c. How often is the literature search for each report updated and flagged for updating? 2. Health Technology Brief Service: a. Please describe and identify the health technology briefs your product has and how many new or updated reports are produced yearly. What resources and tools are available? b. Describe your company's health technology brief services and capabilities. What do they include? c. How will your company assess new technologies for which there is some published evidence but not enough for a comprehensive assessment? 3. Health Technology Brief Library: a. Please describe and identify your company's health technology brief library. What resources and tools are available? b. How many technology briefs are available? How often are they updated and how many are added or updated each year? Are expedited reports available? If yes, how quickly can they be delivered to the customer? 4. Genetic Test Evaluation (GTE) Program:

a. Please describe your company's GTE Program services and capabilities. What do they include? What resources and tools are available? b. How many GTE reports are available? How often are they updated and how many are added or updated each year? What tools and resources are available? 5. General Questions: a. Background: Provide a description of your company or team's background, technical expertise, experience, staffing, and other capabilities that demonstrate its capability to provide the anticipated medical subscription service requirements. b. Training and customer support for using the reporting tools: Describe the methods of training (e.g., remote, on site, webinars, FAQs, etc.) and how it is structured (e.g., continuous, modules, etc.). c. Pricing Method: Please do not submit a proposal or specific dollar amounts. (1) Describe the licensing and pricing structure that would be best suited for the solution. Please explain the advantages of this approach. (2) Describe the pricing method for training and customer support. (3) Describe the pricing structure for support activities not covered as maintenance.

