SOLICITATION 2011-R-017

Attachment J-1

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE CONTRACT # XXXXXXXXX
Your assistance is requested in support of a source selection. When complete, the information on this form is SOURCE SELECTION SENSITIVE INFORMATION (41 U.S.C. 423) and shall be protected accordingly. Please complete this Questionnaire and send by facsimile (FAX 202-2249139) to: Attn: Nicole A. Barnes Procurement and Contracting Specialist Office of the Sergeant at Arms United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510-7207

INFORMATION REQUESTED OF THE FOLLOWING CONTRACT
1. CONTRACTOR NAME AND ADDRESS: 2. CONTRACT TITLE:

3. DESCRIPTION OF CONTRACT WORK REQUIREMENTS:

TO BE COMPLETED BY EVALUATING ORGANIZATION REPRESENTATIVE A. Evaluator's Name, Position (PCO/COTR/ B. Evaluator's Phone Number: OTHER) & Organization C. Months Performance Monitored by Evaluator:

For each question posed below, please circle the response code which best reflects your experience with the contractor: EX Exceptional -- Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many. The contractual performance of the element or sub-elements being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective. VG Very Good--Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective. S Satisfactory -- Performance meets contractual requirements. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which correction actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory. MG Marginal --Performance does not meet some contractual requirements. The contractual performance of the elements or sub-elements being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions. The contractor's proposed actions appear only marginally effective or where not fully implemented. US Unsatisfactory-- Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner. The contractual performance of the element or subelement contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor's corrective actions appear or were ineffective. N/O Not Observed

1

SOLICITATION 2011-R-017

Attachment J-1

Please PROVIDE COMMENTS to identify SPECIFIC STRENGTHS/WEAKNESSES for EACH AREA A.1 Quality of Products and Services: Assess the contractor's conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards). Issue Anticipation/Prevention EX VG S MG US N/O Problem Resolution EX VG S MG US N/O Process Improvement EX VG S MG US N/O Lessons Learned Incorporation EX VG S MG US N/O Thoroughness/Attention to Detail EX VG S MG US N/O Accuracy EX VG S MG US N/O Overall Quality EX VG S MG US N/O A.2 Quality of Technical Capabilities Expertise and Knowledge of Personnel EX VG S MG US N/O Technical Goals and Objectives Met EX VG S MG US N/O Ability to provide ongoing application EX VG S MG US N/O support Technical approach and implementation EX VG S MG US N/O successful? A.3 Quality of Technical Deliverables Did the contract deliverables meet your EX VG S MG US N/O expectations? Primary application EX VG S MG US N/O Training EX VG S MG US N/O Trouble tracking and resolution EX VG S MG US N/O B SCHEDULE -- Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance). Services EX VG S MG US N/O Products EX VG S MG US N/O C COST CONTROL -- Assess the contractor's effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract cost. Performed within Estimates EX VG S MG US N/O Cost Consciousness EX VG S MG US N/O D.1 BUSINESS RELATIONS -- Assess the integration and coordination of all activity needed to execute the contract, specifically the timeliness, completeness and quality of problem identification, corrective action plans, proposal submittal, history of reasonable and cooperative behavior, customer satisfaction, timely award and arrangement of subcontracts. Business/Contracting Relations EX VG S MG US N/O Response to Change EX VG S MG US N/O Subcontract Management EX VG S MG US N/O D.2 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (End-Users when applicable) Interaction with End Users EX VG S MG US N/O Responsiveness EX VG S MG US N/O E MANAGEMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL -- Assess the contractor's performance in selecting, retaining, supporting, and replacing, when necessary, key personnel. Met Contract Requirements EX VG S MG US N/O Retention EX VG S MG US N/O Replacement Speed and Quality EX VG S MG US N/O Transition to New Key Personnel EX VG S MG US N/O

2

SOLICITATION 2011-R-017

Attachment J-1

F OVERALL ASSESSMENT EX VG PLEASE PROVIDE COMMENTS TO IDENTIFY: 1. Specific Strength/Weaknesses related to Part A-E Above 2. Two or Three Best Corporate "Traits" or Skills observed. 3. Any Areas of Performance that are the most Troublesome?

S

MG

US

N/O

Please add a continuation sheet for comments if required

3

SECTION A ­ SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM
SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
1. CONTRACT NO. SOLICITATION NO. 2. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

PAGE 1 4. REQUISITION/

2011-C-017
5. ISSUED BY

2011-R-017
COMPETITIVE
CODE

See Block 21
6. ADDRESS THE OFFER TO (if other than Item 5)

PURCHASE NO.

Secretary of the Senate United States Senate Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510-7207

Office of the Sergeant at Arms United States Senate Attn: Contracts Department Washington, DC 20510
SOLICITATION

7.

FOR INFORMATION CALL OR E-MAIL
SEC A B C D E F G H DESCRIPTION

A. NAME: Nicole A. Barnes
8. TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE(S) SEC I J K L

B. TELEPHONE NO: 202-224-9321 NO COLLECT CALLS) or EMAIL: acquisitions2010@saa.senate.gov
DESCRIPTION CONTRACT CLAUSES LIST OF ATTACHMENTS REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD CONTRACTOR PROPOSAL PAGE(S)

PART I ­ THE SCHEDULE
SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COSTS STATEMENT OF WORK PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS M N OFFER (Must be fully completed by Offeror) 9.

In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within ____ calendar days ( 90 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the Offeror) from the date of receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any of the items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the specified schedule.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF AMENDMENTS (The Offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for Offerors and related documents numbered and dated: AMENDMENT NO. DATE AMENDMENT NO. DATE

10.

11A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR 11B. TELEPHONE NO.

TIN NO

Dunn & Bradstreet

12. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or Print)

11C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE

13. SIGNATURE

14. DATE SIGNED

15. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED

AWARD (To be completed by Senate) 16. AMOUNT 16. SUBMIT INVOICES IN ACCORDANCE with Section G.2 In accordance with purchase orders issued Submission of Invoices under this contract CODE 19. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

ITEM

18. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 5)

United States Senate Secretary of the Senate Washington, DC 20510-7205
20. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER UNITED STATES SENATE (signature of Contracting Officer) 21. DATE SIGNED

Nancy Erickson
IMPORTANT -- Award will be made on this Form, or other authorized official written notice

March 9, 2011

Page 1 of 33

SECTION B ­ SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COSTS B.1 Scope The Contractor shall supply to the United States Senate an annual subscription for real-time online major national and regional newspaper content for delivery on a 24 hours a day, 365 days a year basis as an integrated feed to the Senate's real-time news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc., for redelivery to users of the Senate's customized news search platform Senate NewsWatch and the associated InfoViewer Web-based client. B.2 Description of Services Services to be provided under this agreement include an annual subscription for real-time online major national and regional newspaper content for delivery on a 24 hours a day, 365 days a year basis as an integrated feed to the Senate's real-time news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc., for redelivery to users of the Senate's customized news search platform Senate NewsWatch and the associated InfoViewer Web-based client. Mandatory content in the product offering shall include three national newspapers (The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, (Eastern ed.), and The Washington Post) and six major regional papers (The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The Boston Globe, Chicago Tribune, The Denver Post, Houston Chronicle, and Los Angeles Times) representing every region in the United States. Optional content in the product offering may include six additional major regional papers (The Arizona Republic, The Miami Herald, Pittsburgh PostGazette, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Star Tribune (Minneapolis), and The Seattle Times). Required content for each listed newspaper title should include the latest print edition, online edition news stories, Web original stories, online updates of print edition stories, and newspaper blog posts. B.3 Contract Price The Contractor's proposal, incorporated into this Contract as Section N, reflects the cost for all goods and services provided under this Contract. B.4 Term This is a firm fixed price Contract for commercially available products or services specified and effective for the base period stated. The Contract will have options for four (4) one-year renewal periods. Exercise of option(s) will be in accordance with Section H.9 Exercise of Options. B.5 Price Re-determination and Adjustments The Contractor may offer a price reduction at any time effective upon the date offered by the Contractor and will apply to all services performed on or after the effective date of price change. Price increases must be mutually agreed to and incorporated into the Contract through a modification hereto.

March 9, 2011

Page 2 of 33

B.6 Payment Schedule PAYMENT SCHEDULE CLIN Description 001 101 102 103 104 Base Period: October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012 Option Period 1: October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2013 Option Period 2: October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014 Option Period 3: October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015 Option Period 4: October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016 Firm Fixed Price

SECTION C - STATEMENT OF WORK The contractor shall supply to the United States Senate an annual subscription for real-time online major national and regional newspaper content for delivery on a 24 hours a day, 365 days a year basis as an integrated feed to the Senate's real-time news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc., for redelivery to users of the Senate's customized news search platform Senate NewsWatch and the associated InfoViewer Web-based client. C.1 Content Requirements Mandatory content in the product offering shall include three national newspapers (The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal (Eastern ed.), and The Washington Post) and six major regional papers (The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The Boston Globe, Chicago Tribune, The Denver Post, Houston Chronicle, and Los Angeles Times) representing every region in the United States. Optional content in the product offering may include six additional major regional papers (The Arizona Republic, The Miami Herald, Pittsburgh PostGazette, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Star Tribune (Minneapolis), and The Seattle Times). Required content for each listed newspaper title shall include the latest print edition, online edition news stories, Web original stories, online updates of print edition stories, and newspaper blog posts. Categories, titles, and delivery requirements are listed below: National newspapers include:  The New York Times (mandatory);  The Wall Street Journal. Eastern edition (mandatory), and;  The Washington Post (mandatory). Major regional papers include:  The Arizona Republic (optional);  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (mandatory);  The Boston Globe (mandatory);  Chicago Tribune (mandatory);  The Denver Post (mandatory);  Houston Chronicle (mandatory);  Los Angeles Times (mandatory);  Miami Herald (optional);  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (optional);
March 9, 2011 Page 3 of 33

  

St. Louis Post Dispatch (optional); Star Tribune (Minneapolis) (optional),and; The Seattle Times (optional).

C.2 Product Pricing The proposal shall include itemized pricing for the following:  Each mandatory national newspaper title;  Each mandatory regional newspaper title, and;  Each available optional regional newspaper title. The proposal shall included bundled pricing for the following:  All mandatory national and regional newspaper content;  All mandatory national newspaper content;  All mandatory regional newspaper content;  All available optional newspaper content, and;  All mandatory and available optional newspaper content. C.3 Product Description The proposal shall include a product description that summarizes the following for each title in the product offering:  Topical content;  Feed type;  Feed source(s);  Feed format;  Nodes;  The update frequency of the product offering;  The range in number of stories included in the product offering;  The average number of stories included in the product offering, and;  Any overlap among component news services included in the product offering. C.4 Metadata Requirements The feed shall be delivered in XML format with sufficient metadata to support:  Topical parsing of the feed by the Senate's news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc.;  The creation of topic alerts;  Retrieval of news stories and multimedia content for 90 days from the date of publication;  Full indexing of content and topical searching by users of the InfoViewer Web-based client;  Filtering and displaying of results by feed source, headline, date, location, and timestamp;  The exclusion of undesirable content such as weather and lottery results by the Senate's news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc.;  The exclusion of undesirable content in individual custom profiles and in topical news alerts, and;  The optional filtering of duplicate stories from a custom user profile.

March 9, 2011

Page 4 of 33

Additional fielded metadata requirements to allow for filtering of search results include, but are not limited to the following:  Headline;  Byline;  Date;  Source;  Section;  Location, and;  Edition. C.5 Reuse and Availability Requirements The Senate retains the right to request limited internal reuse of any subscribed multimedia content for internally produced and distributed newsletters, alerts, and RSS feeds with full source attribution. Newspaper content shall remain full-text searchable and available to users of Senate NewsWatch and the InfoViewer Web-based client for 90 days from the date of publication. C.6 Technical Support The contractor shall provide technical support and troubleshooting of content delivery issues within one hour of reported outage when such outage occurs on Monday through Friday between the hours of 8 am and 6 pm EST. Technical support requests may originate with the Senate Library staff or with the Senate's news integrator, InfoDesk, Inc. SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1 Reserved D.2 Reserved D.3 Reserved SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE E.1 Definitions E.1.1 "Services," as used in this clause, includes services, workmanship, and documentation furnished or utilized in the performance of services, and records and information from the Contractor relating to contract administration functions. E.1.2 "Acceptance," as used in this clause, means the act of Contracting Officer or other authorized representative of the Senate by which the Senate assumes for itself, ownership of existing and identified supplies, or approves specific services, as partial or complete performance of the Contract. E.1.3 "Correction," as used in this clause, means the elimination of a defect by the Contractor.

March 9, 2011

Page 5 of 33

E.2 Inspection - General Requirements E.2.1 All Senate facilities utilized by the Contractor in performance of work under this Contract shall be subject to inspection by officials of the Senate. E.2.2 The Senate shall permit access and provide the necessary means to do so for all services provided by the Contractor under this Contract. E.3 Inspection of Goods/Services E.3.1 The Senate has the right to inspect and evaluate all goods and services provided or performed under this Contract at all reasonable times and in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. E.3.2 If any of the goods or services provided or performed are found not to conform with Contract requirements, the Senate may require Contractor to provide a correction or to re-perform the services again in conformity with Contract requirements, at no increase in Contract amount. The goods and services offered the Senate must, at a minimum, include the technical features and functionality certified by the Contractor and such portions or elements of the Contractor's proposal as incorporated into the Contract. E.4 Responsibility for Inspection and Acceptance E.4.1 The COTR is responsible for performing inspection and ensuring adequate records are kept to support acceptance or rejection. Acceptance will be made by the COTR; rejections, if necessary, will be made by the Contracting Officer. E.4.2 Acceptance of the products or services provided will be accomplished by the COTR through inspection and quality assurance. The COTR will inspect or review that the goods/services provided by the Contractor to ensure the conformance to the applicable specifications set forth in this Contract including those portions of the Contractor's proposal incorporated into the Contract and any applicable task order statement of work. Acceptance shall be conclusive unless otherwise notified by the Senate within ninety (90) calendar days after satisfactory delivery or completion of acceptance testing. Acceptance does not waive the Senate's rights nor is acceptance conclusive with regard to latent product defects or those defects made manifest only through the extended use of the product. SECTION F - DELIVERIES AND PERFORMANCE F.1 Deliverable Item The Contractor shall complete all work hereunder in accordance with the Contract, including delivery of all goods and services, effective from the date of the Contract and/or notice to proceed. All project plans shall be delivered in most current version of Microsoft Project. Text items shall be included as notes in Microsoft Project, or delivered in the most current version of Microsoft Word. Status reports shall be delivered in Microsoft Word format. Microsoft Power Point may be used to assist the Contractor in its oral presentations.

March 9, 2011

Page 6 of 33

F.2 Place of Performance All work to be completed under this Contract shall be at the Contractor's site(s), Senate facilities, and designated locations as specified in task orders issued under this Contract, unless written authorization is obtained in advance from the Contracting Officer. F.3 Reserved F.4 Technical Review Meetings F.4.1 Unless otherwise required by the SOW, technical review meetings will be conducted between the Contractor and the COTR to review and discuss the status of all Contract requirements and the Contractor's progress in implementing the system or providing services under the Contract. F.4.2 The technical review meeting will take place at Senate facilities, as determined by the COTR. Contractor representation must include at least one individual from the Contractor's corporate organization and management personnel, as appropriate. F.4.3 The Contractor shall also be required to attend meetings as requested by COTR with various personnel of the Senate, and Program Office meetings. F.5 Delay in Performance F.5.1 In the event the Contractor encounters difficulty in meeting the performance of the SOW technical requirements, or when it anticipates difficulty in complying with the Contract delivery schedule or completion date, or whenever the Contractor has knowledge that any actual or potential situation is delaying or threatens to delay the timely performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall promptly notify the COTR by telephone or e-mail, or in the COTR's absence, the Contracting Officer. If the COTR determines that the difficulty, anticipated difficulty, or potential difficulty in meeting performance requirements is significant in nature, the COTR shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer and require the Contractor to follow up in writing, giving pertinent details, provided, however, that this data shall be informational only in character. This provision shall not be construed as a waiver by the Senate of any delivery schedule or date, or any rights provided under this Contract. F.5.2 The Contractor shall take whatever actions are necessary to ensure continuous provision of products or services specified in this Contract. F.5.3 The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as acts of God or the public enemy, and acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity. F.5.4 If in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor falls behind the progress schedule for a deliverable, the Contractor shall take such steps as may be necessary to improve progress, and the Contracting Officer may require overtime operations or increased days of work, all without additional costs to the Senate.

March 9, 2011

Page 7 of 33

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G.1 Contract Administration G.1.1 Administration of this Contract will be performed by the Secretary of the Senate Contracting Officer (CO) or the CO's delegates. The Contracting Officer is authorized to make contractual modifications and render contractual decisions, including but not limited to, changes in the scope of work and monetary additions or deletions, subject to the United States Senate authority delegated to them. No changes shall be effective without a modification of the Contract. All communications pertaining to contractual and/or administrative matters under this Contract should be addressed to: Nancy Erickson Secretary of the Senate Telephone Number: 202-224-3622 E-mail: Nancy_Erickson@sec.senate.gov

G.2 Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) G.2.1 The Contracting Officer will designate a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) for this Contract who will be responsible for providing technical direction and control during performance of this Contract. The COTR is responsible for performing inspection, and ensuring that adequate records are kept to support acceptance or rejection. Acceptance will be made by the COTR. G.2.2 Designated by the Contracting Officer, the COTR is assigned the responsibility to (1) provide technical direction to the Contractor(s) within the constraints of the SOW, (2) monitor and oversee the daily performance of the Contractor, (3) realign Contractor resources to fulfill contract requirements as long as specified contractual limits are not exceeded, (4) authorize all invoices for payment, and (5) perform final inspection and acceptance of all deliverables including reports and invoices. If the invoice is not acceptable for certification, the Contracting Officer shall be notified in writing with the detailed reason for rejection. Additionally, the COTR will inspect, accept or reject all work performed and resolve day to day matters directly with the Contractor. G.2.3 The COTR is identified in the table below: Name/Title Leona Faust Phone 202-224-5730 Email Leona_Faust@sec.senate.gov

G.3 Identification of Correspondence All correspondence and data submitted by the Contractor under this Contract shall reference the Contract number. G.4 Submission of Invoices and Payment Schedule G.4.1 The Senate shall pay the Contractor within a reasonable time, but not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of proper invoices approved by the Contracting Officer or their designee.

March 9, 2011

Page 8 of 33

G.4.2 Submission of Invoices G.4.2.1 The Contractor shall submit invoices electronically upon acceptance of deliverables, unless other instructions are provided in the Contract. At a minimum, the invoice shall reflect the Contract number, task order number, purchase order number, a description of the service, and period of performance for services rendered. The Contractor shall not invoice, nor will the Senate pay, for products/services not listed in Section B, Section C herein, or a properly issued task order. The Contractor invoices for payment will be submitted electronically in a non-editable electronic file such as PDF, TIFF, JPEG or other image format. Original Invoice shall be sent electronically to: zoraida_torres@sec.senate.gov Copy of invoice shall be sent electronically to: Leona Faust, Contracting Officer's Technical Representative leona_faust@sec.senate.gov G.4.2.2 It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that the invoices are submitted in the correct format. G.4.2.3 Contractor questions regarding payment information should be directed to the COTR for follow-up with appropriate financial personnel. G.5 Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) Payment G.5.1 The Senate Disbursing Office may elect to send to the Contractor a Payee/Company Information Form to be completed and signed by the appropriate company official. G.5.2 The Contractor shall designate a single financial agent capable of receiving and processing the electronic funds transfers. The Contractor shall pay all fees and charges for receipt and processing of transfers. G.5.3 If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Senate failed to use the Contractor provided EFT information in the correct manner, the Senate remains responsible for (i) making a correct payment, (ii) paying any prompt payment penalty due, and (iii) recovering any erroneously directed funds. If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because Contractor provided EFT information was incomplete at the time of Senate release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and (i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Senate is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or, (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Senate retains the right to either make payment by mail or suspend the payment. G.5.4 The Contractor agrees that the Contractor's financial agent may notify the Government of a change to the routing transit number, Contractor account number, or account type. The Contractor agrees that the

March 9, 2011

Page 9 of 33

information provided by the agent is deemed to be correct information as if it were provided by the Contractor. SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 Order of Precedence Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or Contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. The schedule of supplies/services and the SOW; The Assignment, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, and Compliance with Laws paragraphs; Addenda to this Contract, including any license agreements for computer software; Other documents, exhibits, and attachments; The Contractor's proposal.

H.2 Interpretation of Contract Requirements No interpretation of any provision of this Contract, including applicable specifications, shall be binding on the Senate unless furnished or agreed to in writing by the Contracting Officer or his/her designated representative. H.3 Key and Other Personnel H.3.1 The Contracting Officer may designate certain Contractor personnel as key persons for purposes of this Contract or any task order issued hereunder. Key personnel may not be changed or reassigned during the base period of the Contract without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer or COTR, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The project manager is designated as key personnel. H.3.2 During the period of this Contract, key personnel substitutions shall not be permitted unless such substitutions are necessitated by an individual's sudden illness, personal hardship, death or termination of employment or requested by the Contracting Officer or COTR. In any of these events, Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and provide the information required in paragraph. H.3.3 All proposed substitutions must have qualifications that are equal to or higher than the qualifications of the person to be replaced. The Contracting Officer or designee will evaluate such requests and will notify Contractor of the Senate's approval or disapproval thereof on substitutions within twenty (20) business days. H.3.4 The Senate reserves the right to approve or disapprove the assignments of all personnel assigned to the performance of this Contract. H.4 Information Security System and Virus Free The Contractor is subject to Senate information system security regulations and guidelines and shall certify that all components of any IT-related services or software it provides are free of known malicious code or any other known threats to the Senate IT environment. The Contractor shall perform regular security control reviews of its system(s) and shall ensure that all hardware and software security updates (including, but not limited to, antivirus definition updates, operating system and application security patches, firmware updates, etc.) and any

March 9, 2011

Page 10 of 33

other remediation processes deemed necessary by the SAA are tested and applied prior to connecting said systems to the Senate IT infrastructure. Systems or services (including, but not limited to, hardware, software, firmware, etc.) not required to support Senate business processes, as identified and approved by the SAA, shall not be installed. In addition, the SAA shall reserve the right to perform, as necessary, vulnerability assessments and any other analysis of Contractor system(s) used within the Senate environment and take any necessary action to ensure that these systems do not threaten the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of Senate information systems. The Contractor shall remediate any issues raised by the SAA in a manner approved by the SAA's IT security branch prior to returning systems to normal operations within the Senate environment. The signed contract by and between the Contractor and the U.S. Senate and any applicable signed invoices submitted for services provided by the Contractor to the U.S. Senate shall constitute the Contractor's acceptance and intent to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in this section. H.5 Delegation of Authority The Contractor may delegate to its representatives authority in the performance of this Contract. Such delegation does not absolve the Contractor of accountability for performance of the Contract. All delegations of authority by either party to fulfill the obligations of this Contract will be made in writing to the respective Contracting Officer. H.6 Modifications and Additions/Adjustments Administrative changes, e.g. address corrections, are approved by the Contracting Officer, and all other changes, modifications, additions or deletions, which change the scope of this Contract, must be prepared in writing as formal modifications signed by both parties. Modifications may be subject to approval by the Committee on Rules and Administration, pursuant to the Senate Procurement Regulations. H.7 Severability If any portion of this Contract is determined to be either contrary to law or otherwise unenforceable, then that provision will be deemed to be omitted from the Contract, but only to the extent necessary to relieve the deficiency. All other provisions of the Contract, including such portions of the omitted clause as are not determined to be contrary to law or unenforceable, will remain in full force and effect. H.8 Technology Upgrades During the life of this Contract, the Senate may, at its option, permit the Contractor to substitute as orderable items, technologically advanced goods and services which become commercially available after the date of Contract award, provided that any substitute items are at least technically equal to the items replaced. Recommended technology upgrades must be proposed by the Contractor in written proposal form and acceptance by the Senate in writing of the Contractor's recommendations will be evidenced by issuance of a contract modification authorizing such technology upgrade. H.9 Exercise of Options After the base term, this Contract is renewable in one year increments, at the discretion of the Senate, for up to four (4) additional periods, at prices specified in Section B.6. The Contracting Officer will give written notice of

March 9, 2011

Page 11 of 33

intent to renew to the Contractor before this Contract is to expire by the first day of each fiscal year or within thirty (30) calendar days after funds for that fiscal year become available, whichever date is later, for each subsequent option year after the initial option year. Solicitations for similar products or services may be issued by the Senate prior to the expiration of this Contract. H.10 Security H.10.1 The Contractor shall comply with all Senate security publications, regulations and procedures. H.10.2 Personnel Security. H.10.2.1 Contractor personnel are required to be citizens of the United States of America (U.S.) or meet the eligibility requirements for Government of the United States employee compensation as specified in Public Law 111-117, Section 704. H.10.2.2 The Senate shall conduct background checks for all Contractor personnel assigned to perform work at Government sites in the Metropolitan Washington, DC area. The Contractor shall provide all of the following information to the Contracting Officer or his/her designee for each of the Contractor personnel that require background checks: (a) proof of citizenship, (b) proof of eligibility to work in the U.S., (c) a completed Office of the Sergeant at Arms Vendor Employee Background and Certification and Authorization to Release Information form, (d) a completed original United States Capitol Police Request for Check of Criminal History Records, (e) an executed U.S. Senate Sergeant at Arms Operations Information Security Responsibilities Acknowledgment, (f) an executed United States Senate, Office of the Sergeant at Arms, Confidentiality Agreement. This information shall be provided to the Senate at least two weeks prior to assigning personnel to work under this Contract. Upon notification, Contractor personnel shall promptly report to the United States Capitol Police Headquarters Building for fingerprinting. H.10.2.3 Contractor personnel that require background checks shall not commence work on this Contract until such time as the Contractor is notified, in writing, by the Contracting Officer or their designee that an individual's background check has been completed and approved or that a temporary waiver has been granted until such time as the background check is completed. Such notification shall be made by the Senate no later than ten (10) business days following the submission of all of the documentation specified in H.10.2.2 above. H.10.2.4 The Contractor shall immediately inform the Senate when there is a change in the citizenship or eligibility to work in the U.S. status of any Contractor personnel performing under this Contract. The Contractor shall immediately remove any Contractor personnel when information is obtained that makes the Contractor believe that person has ceased to be a responsible individual and should no longer work under this Contract. H.10.3 Network Data and Information Security.

March 9, 2011

Page 12 of 33

Contractor shall maintain appropriate care for maintaining the integrity of the Senate network when Contractor personnel have network access either local or remote. Senate information is privileged material and must be protected from loss disclosure and electronic penetration. H.11 Identification Badges The Contractor shall see that each on-site employee as well as key personnel has a United States Senate identification/access badge if necessary. United States Senate procedures will be followed with regard to Contract employees. The Contractor will work with the COTR in obtaining identification/access badges if the Senate determines that an employee requires a badge. H.12 Incorporation of Offeror's Proposal The Contractor's proposal dated ______ is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Contract. H.13 Senate Furnished Equipment/Contractor Furnished Equipment H.13.1 Definitions Senate-furnished Equipment (SFE). - SFE is equipment in the possession of the Senate or directly acquired by the Senate, which is subsequently provided to the Contractor to use during the course of the Contract. Contractor-furnished-Equipment (CFE) - CFE is equipment acquired by a private procurement agent using Senate funds. CFE is acquired by or otherwise provided to a Contractor for performing a contract. The Senate has title to the said equipment. Senate Equipment - Senate Equipment is all equipment owned by or leased to the Senate or acquired by the Senate under the terms of a contract. Senate Equipment includes both SFE and CFE. Custodial Records - Custodial records are written or electronic memoranda of any kind used to control and track Senate equipment. H.13.2 Contractor Responsibility. H.13.2.1 The Contractor shall be directly responsible and accountable for all Senate equipment issued to the Contractor, including Senate Equipment in the possession or control of a Subcontractor. The Contractor shall establish and maintain a system to control, protect, preserve, and maintain all Senate equipment. This equipment control system shall be in writing or maintained in electronic format unless the Contracting Officer determines that maintaining such a formal system is unnecessary. The system shall be reviewed and, if satisfactory, approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. H.13.2.2 The Contractor shall maintain and make available the records for all Senate Equipment for review by the Senate during the term of this Contract. The Contractor shall furnish all necessary data to substantiate any request for relief from this responsibility. H.13.2.3 The Contractor shall be responsible for the control of Senate Equipment upon:

March 9, 2011

Page 13 of 33

(a) delivery of Senate Equipment into its custody or control; (b) delivery when equipment is purchased by the Contractor as CFE and a task order calls for reimbursement by the Senate. (This requirement does not alter or modify contractual requirements relating to passage of title); (c) approval of Contractor's claim for reimbursement by the Senate; (d) equipment withdrawn from Contractor-owned stores and charged directly to the Contract; (e) acceptance of title by the Senate when title is acquired pursuant to specific Contract clauses or as a result of change orders or Contract termination; or (f) acceptance by the Senate when a product was constructed or fabricated by the Contractor. H.13.3 Subcontractor Responsibility. The Contractor shall require Subcontractors to comply with the requirements of Section H if provided Senate Equipment under the Contract. Procedures for assuring Subcontractor compliance shall be included in the Contractor's equipment control system. H.13.4 Responsibility for Maintaining Records. H.13.4.1 The Contractor shall maintain records for Senate Equipment which shall include but not be limited to: (a) maintaining supporting documents in accordance with H.13.4.5; (b) preserving a proper audit trail on all Senate Equipment in its possession; and (c) ensuring that the status of the Senate Equipment in its possession is correctly specified. H.13.4.2 Equipment records must identify all Senate Equipment and provide a complete, current, auditable record of all transactions involving Senate Equipment. The records shall be safeguarded from tampering or destruction. Records shall be accessible to the Contracting Officer. H.13.4.3 The Contractor's equipment control system shall contain a system or technique to locate any item of Senate Equipment within a reasonable period of time. H.13.4.4 The Contractor shall be required to place Senate Equipment tags which will be furnished by the Senate on all accountable CFE as soon as the Equipment is accepted on behalf of the Senate. H.13.4.5 The Contractor's equipment control records shall provide the following basic information for every item of Senate Equipment in the Contractor's possession, regardless of value. (a) the name, description, and National Stock Number if furnished by the Senate or available in the equipment control system; (b) the quantity received or fabricated, issued, and on hand; (c) the unit price and the unit of measure to include all costs required to place the item into service; (d) the contract number or equivalent code designation; (e) the location; (f) the disposition; (g) the posting reference and date of transaction; (h) the acquisition date; and (i) the barcode tag number.

March 9, 2011

Page 14 of 33

H.14 Intellectual Property Rights The Senate shall have unlimited, royalty free, rights in all data and products produced in the performance of this Contract, and in all products and data delivered under this Contract (except for restricted computer software) including software, technical data, manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use. "Software," as used in this provision, means computer programs, computer data bases, and documentation thereof. The term also includes data identifying its source, functional characteristics and performance characteristics, and specifically includes the source code, algorithm, processes, formulae, and flow charts of the software. The Contractor agrees that all intellectual and data rights in the software shall become the exclusive property of the Senate. The Contractor agrees to transfer all rights, title and interest in the software to the Senate. With respect to manuals concerning pre-existing Contractor products, the Senate shall have an unlimited license to use copies of these manuals. If the Contractor creates for the Senate any software ("Developed Software") as specified in the Contract or any task order issued hereunder, all the Contractor's services shall be considered work for hire and the Senate shall have all rights of ownership in the Developed Software. The Senate shall have a non-exclusive right to use any software received from the Contractor to the extent embedded in the Developed Software. The Contractor shall have no rights in Developed Software except as mutually agreed to in advance in writing by the parties. The Contractor grants to the Senate a non-exclusive, perpetual, non-transferable royalty free license to use the ideas, know-how, or techniques, which may be used or provided by the Contractor as a result of performing the Statement of Work on any task order issued hereunder, including any enhancements made to the Contractor's software source code or to the documentation. Intellectual property rights shall convey to the Senate upon full payment for all products and data delivered under this Contract. H.15 Restricted Rights Software Contractor's commercial software and commercial computer software documentation are provided to the Senate in accordance with the terms of the Contractor's written software license that is provided with the Contractor's or third party equipment purchased by Contractor for the Senate under this Contract. The Contractor represents and warrants that commercial software or computer documentation was developed at private expense and contain confidential information or trade secrets of the Contractor or its suppliers and licensors. H.16 Liability H.16.1 Workers' compensation and employer's liability. The Contractor is required to comply with applicable Federal and State workers' compensation and occupational disease statutes. Employer's liability coverage of at least $100,000 shall be required, except in States with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers' compensation to be written by private carriers. H.16.2 General liability. (a) The Contractor shall have bodily injury liability insurance coverage written on the comprehensive form of policy of at least $500,000 per occurrence.

March 9, 2011

Page 15 of 33

(b) Property damage liability insurance shall be required only in special circumstances as determined by the Senate's Contracting Officer. H.17 Limitations of Funds H.17 The Senate may allot funds incrementally to the contract up to the full Contract value. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer or his or her designee in writing whenever it has reason to believe that the costs it expects to incur under this contract in the next 60 days, when added to all costs previously incurred, will exceed 75 percent of the total funding amount so far allotted to the contract by the Senate. SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 Changes I.1.1 The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, make changes, within the general scope of this Contract, in the manner and method of delivery of services, provided however that changes are within the Contractor's capability and in accordance with Senate Procurement Regulations. If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, the performance of any part of the work under Contract an equitable adjustment shall be made in the Contract price or delivery schedule, or both, and the Contract shall be modified in writing accordingly. Any claim by the Contractor for adjustment under this clause must be asserted within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of receipt by the Contractor of the notification of change; provided, however, that the Contracting Officer, if he or she decides that the facts justify such action, may receive and act upon any such claim assorted at any time prior to final payment under this Contract. Where the cost of property made obsolete or excess as a result of a change is included in the Contractor's claim for adjustment, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of disposition of such property. I.1.2 Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause of this Contract entitled "Disputes." However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the Contract until changed. I.2 Assignment of Claim I.2.1 Pursuant to the provisions of the Assignment of Claims Act of 1940, as amended (31 U.S.C. 203, 41 U.S.C. 15), if this Contract provides for payments aggregating $1000 or more, claims for moneys due to or to become due the Contractor from the Senate under this Contract may be assigned to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency, and may thereafter be further assigned and reassigned to any such institution. Any such assignment or reassignment shall cover all amounts payable under this Contract and not already paid, and shall not be made to more than one party, except that any such assignment or reassignment may be made to one party as agent or trustee for two or more parties participating in such financing. Unless otherwise provided in this Contract, payments to an assignee of any moneys due or to become due under this Contract shall not, to the extent provided in said Act, as amended, be subject to reduction or setoff. I.2.2 In no event shall copies of this Contract or any plans, specifications, or other similar documents relating to work under this Contract, if marked Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential, be furnished to any assignee of any claim arising under this Contract or to any person not entitled to receive the same. However, a copy of any part

March 9, 2011

Page 16 of 33

or all of this Contract so marked may be furnished, or any information contained herein may be disclosed to such assignees upon the prior written authorization of the Contracting Officer. I.3 Disputes Except as otherwise provided in this Contract, all disputes arising under this Contract which are not disposed of by agreement shall be decided by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, who shall reduce his/her decision to writing and mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof to the Contractor. The decision of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate will be final and conclusive unless, within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of receipt of such copy, the Contractor mails or otherwise furnishes to the Contracting Officer, a written appeal addressed to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration. The notice of appeal, which must be signed by the Contractor or by an attorney acting on the contractor's behalf, and which may be in letter form, shall indicate that an appeal is intended and shall refer to the Sergeant at Arms Decision and identify the Contract by number. The notice of appeal should include a statement of the reasons why the determination decision is considered to be erroneous. The Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration, acting on behalf of the Committee, may ask the Comptroller General for a recommendation on the appeal. The decision of the Chairman or his duly authorized representative for the determination of such appeals shall be final and conclusive. Pending final decision of a dispute, the Contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the Contract and in accordance with the Contracting Officer's directions. I.4 Payment of Interest of Contractor's Claim The Senate will pay interest on the Contractor's claim when such claim is ultimately decided in favor of the Contractor pursuant to the Disputes clause of this Contract. I.4.1 If an appeal is filed by the Contractor from the final determination of the Contracting Officer under the Disputes clause of this Contract, denying a claim arising under the Contract, simple interest on the amount of the claim finally determined owed by the Senate shall be payable to the Contractor. Such interest shall be at the rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Public Law 92 41, 85 Stat. 97, from the date the Contractor furnishes to the Contracting Officer his/her written appeal under the Disputes clause of this Contract, to the date of (1) a final judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction, or (2) mailing to the Contractor of a supplemental agreement for execution either confirming completed negotiations between the parties or carrying out a decision of the Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration. I.4.2 Notwithstanding paragraph I.4.1, above, (1) interest shall be applied only from the date payment was due, if such date is later than the filing of appeal, and (2) interest shall not be paid for any period of time that the Contractor has unduly delayed in pursuing its remedies. I.5 Benefits to Members of Congress No member of, or delegate to Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of the proceeds of this Contract, or to any direct benefit that may arise thereupon. If this Contract is entered into with a corporation for its general benefit, then members of, or delegates to Congress, as shareholders, may benefit from any indirect benefit that accrues from this Contract in the manner that any shareholder would benefit.

March 9, 2011

Page 17 of 33

I.6 Conflict of Interest The Contractor certifies and warrants that the Contractor has no conflict of interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would be applicable to the performance of the obligations covered by this Contract. If an allegation of a conflict of interest is brought to the attention of the United States Senate, the Contractor agrees to fully cooperate with any investigation of the allegation(s), and will disclose to the United States Senate any other contract(s) to which the Contractor is party, public or private, or which the Contractor undertakes during the period of this Contract (including contracts entered into during the period of this Contract which includes duties to be fulfilled after the termination of the Contract). I.7 Gratuities I.7.1 The Senate may, by written notice to the Contractor, terminate the right of the Contractor to proceed under the Contract if it is found after notice and hearing, by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Rules and Administration or his duly authorized representative, that gratuities (in the form of entertainment, gifts, or otherwise) were offered or given by the Contractor, or any agency or representative of the Contractor, to any employee of the Senate with a view toward securing a contract or securing favorable treatment with respect to awarding or amending or the making of any determination with respect to the performance of such contract; provided, that the existence of the facts upon which the Chairman or his duly authorized representative makes such findings shall be in issue and may be reviewed in any competent court. I.7.2 In the event this Contract is terminated as provided in paragraph I.16 hereof, the Senate shall be entitled (i) to pursue the same remedies against the Contractor as it could pursue in the event of a breach of the Contract by the Contractor, and (ii) as a penalty in addition to any other damages to which it may be entitled by law, to exemplary damages in an amount (as determined by the Chairman or his duly authorized representative) which shall be not less than three (3 ) nor more than ten (10) times the cost incurred by the Contractor in providing any such gratuities, to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Contract. I.7.3 The rights and remedies of the Senate provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any rights and remedies provided by law applicable to this Contract. I.8 Advertising The Contractor agrees not to refer to awards in commercial advertising in such manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed or preferred by the Senate or is considered by the Senate to be superior to other goods or services. Without limiting the scope of any provision of the Contract, the Contractor specifically agrees that it will not use for promotional purposes any information related to the Contract and will not disclose any such information to any entity outside the Senate. I.9 Standards of Conduct and Restrictions I.9.1 Contractor employees shall not solicit new business while performing task assignments at the Senate location related to performance under this Contract. I.9.2 The Contractor and its employees shall refrain from discussing with unauthorized persons any information obtained in the performance of any task assignment under this Contract.

March 9, 2011

Page 18 of 33

I.9.3 The Contractor and its employees shall conduct only such business as covered by this Contract during periods paid by the Senate. Business not directly related to this Contract shall not be conducted on Senate premises during performance on this Contract. I.9.4 Use of the Senate's computer system(s) and/or equipment for company or personal use (other than that directly connected with this Contract) is strictly prohibited. I.9.5 Contractor personnel are expected to adhere to the same professional ethical standards to which Senate personnel in a comparable position would be expected to adhere. I.10 Examination of Records I.10.1 The Contractor agrees that the Chairman of Senate Committee on Rules and Administration or any of his duly authorized representatives shall, until the expiration of three (3) years after final payment, have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the Contractor involving transactions related to this Contract. I.10.2 The periods of access and examination described in paragraph I.10.1 above, for records which relate to (1) appeals under the Disputes clause of this Contract, (2) litigation or the settlement of claims arising out of the performance of this Contract, or (3) costs and expenses of this Contract as to which exception has been taken by the Chairman or any of his duly authorized representatives shall continue until such appeals, litigation, claims, or exceptions have been finally resolved. I.11 Taxes Except as may be otherwise provided in this Contract, the Contract price includes all applicable Federal, state, and local taxes and duties payable by Contractor. The Senate is tax exempt as a Federal instrumentality. I.12 Privacy and Confidentiality During the course of performance of this Contract, the Contractor may have access to information and communications considered sensitive by the Senate. Sensitive information may be contained in printed material or on electronic media. The Contractor will preserve the confidentiality of all such information and communications and agrees not to disclose any such information or communications for any purposes whatsoever without the prior approval of the Contracting Officer. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Paragraph may be grounds for Termination for Default. I.13 Limited Distribution or Use of Proprietary Information I.13.1 During the course of the performance of this Contract, the Contractor may have access to and use of data and information which may be considered proprietary by other vendors, or which may otherwise be of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of this Contract, would be adverse to the interest of the Senate and these other vendors. I.13.2 Except as may be otherwise agreed to with these other vendors, the Contractor agrees that it will not use,

March 9, 2011

Page 19 of 33

disclose or reproduce proprietary data and information belonging to these other vendors other than as required in the performance of this Contract; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as: (1) precluding the use of any such data or information independently acquired by the Contractor without such limitation; or (2) prohibiting an agreement at no cost to the Senate between the Contractor and these vendors which provides for greater rights to the Contractor. I.14 Liquidated Damages In the event of a late delivery of the software system as defined above in Section C, the Contractor shall be liable for liquidated damages in the amount as specified in the task order, for each day of delay in delivery beyond the scheduled delivery date, unless the delay is caused by the Senate or due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the Contractor's ability to control. The parties will agree to reduce the total Contract amount by total amount of the liquidated damages. I.15 Warranty I.15.1 Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Senate or any provision concerning the conclusiveness thereof, the Contractor warrants that all products and services provided under this Contract will conform to the requirements of this Contract for a period of one (1) year. The Contractor warrants and implies that the products and services delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this Contract. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Senate for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. I.15.2 In the event Contractor provides software under this Contract, the Contractor warrants that, for a period of one (1) year following acceptance of the software, will perform substantially in accordance with the functions described in the most current software manual(s) provided by the Contractor. The Contractor does not warrant that the operation of the Software will be error-free. The above warranty shall apply to third party software. I.15.3 The Contracting Officer will give written notice of any defect or nonconformance to the Contractor within thirty (30) calendar days of discovering any warranted defect. This notice will state either that (1) the Contractor must correct any defective or nonconforming services or (2) the Senate does not require correction. I.15.4 If the Contractor is required to correct defects or deficiencies, it must be at no cost to the Senate and any services corrected by the Contractor will be subject to this clause to the same extent as work initially performed. If the Contractor fails or refuses to correct defects or deficiencies, the Contracting Officer may, by contract or otherwise: (a) Correct or replace with similar products or services, and charge to the Contractor the cost occasioned to the Senate, plus a 15% administrative fee to cover Senate costs; or (b) Make an downward equitable adjustment in the Contract price; or (c) Terminate the Contract for default. I.15.5 If the Senate does not require correction, the Contracting Officer may make an equitable adjustment in the Contract price to reflect the reduced value to the Senate of the uncorrected products or services.

March 9, 2011

Page 20 of 33

I.16 Termination for Convenience of the Senate The Contracting Officer, by written notice, may terminate this Contract, in whole or in, part, when it is in the best interest of the Senate in a manner consistent with the Senate Procurement Regulations. Should the Senate terminate this Contract for convenience, the Senate shall be liable only for payment in accordance with the payment provisions of this Contract for services rendered prior to the effective date of termination. I.17 Default I.17.1 The Senate may, subject to the provisions of paragraph I.17.3 below, by written notice of default to the Contractor, terminate the whole or any part of this Contract in any one of the following circumstances: I.17.1.1 If the Contractor fails to make delivery of the supplies or to perform the services within the time specified herein or any extension thereof, or I.17.1.2 If the Contractor fails to perform any of the other provisions of this Contract or so fails to make progress as to endanger performance of this Contract in accordance with its terms, and in either of these two circumstances does not cure such failure within a period of ten (10) business days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may authorize in writing) after receipt of written notice from the Contracting Officer specifying such failure. I.17.2 If this Contract is terminated as provided in paragraph I.17.1 of this clause, the Senate, in addition to any other rights provided in this clause may withhold from amounts otherwise due Contractor for such completed supplies, manufacturing materials, or services performed such sum as the Contracting Officer determines to be necessary to protect the Senate against loss because of outstanding liens or claims of former lien holders. I.17.3 If, after notice of termination of this Contract under the provisions of this clause, it is determined for any reason that Contractor was not in default under the provisions of this clause, or that the default was excusable under the provisions of this clause, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be the same as if a notice of termination for convenience had been issued. I.18 Availability of Funds for Next Fiscal Year The Senate's obligation for performance of any work, which may be ordered under this Contract, is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Senate for any payment may arise for performance under this Contract until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for performance. I.19 Subcontractors The Contractor shall not use a Subcontractor not proposed or approved at the time of contract award without the written approval from the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall provide the Senate five past performance references of work performed within the past three years by the Subcontractor, provide the negotiated rates with the Subcontractor, and provide a copy of the Agreement and/or the Letter of Intent to the Contracting Officer when requesting approval for the use of a Subcontractor. Contractor shall not authorize Subcontractor to commence work without written approval of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall incorporate, and

March 9, 2011

Page 21 of 33

require its Subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, all applicable clauses provided herein in Subcontractor(s) agreement(s). I.20 Entire Agreement This Contract, Contractor's Proposal attached hereto, and any written modifications issued and executed, is the sole agreement between the Senate and Contractor relating to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior understandings, writings, proposals, representations or communications, oral or written, of either party. The Agreement and any future written modifications will only be considered executed when signed by authorized representatives of both parties. SECTION J - CONTRACT ATTACHMENTS J-1 Past Performance Questionnaire

March 9, 2011

Page 22 of 33

SECTION K - REPRESENTATION AND CERTIFICATIONS K.1 Name and Title of Representative of Contractor Authorized to Sign Contract Name: Title: Email: Authorized Signature: Date: K.2 Contact Persons The Contractor shall provide the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individuals who may be contacted by the Senate to address any questions or concerns associated with this Contract.

Contact Name

Address, Telephone Numbers

K.3 Equal Employment Compliance The Contractor represents that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, except as noted below, up to the date of the offer, no written notice such as a show cause letter, a letter indicating probable cause, or any other formal written notification citing specific deficiencies, has been received by the Contractor from any Federal Government agency or representative thereof that the Contractor or any of the divisions or affiliates or known first tier Subcontractors is in violation of any of the provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, Executive Order 11375 of October 213, 1967, or rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR, Chapter 60) and specifically as to not having an acceptable affirmative action program or being in noncompliance with any other aspect of the Equal Employment Opportunity Program. It is further agreed that should there be any change in the status of circumstances between this date and the date of expiration of this offer or any extension thereof, the Contracting Officer will be notified promptly. Notes: (Insert None if applicable): ___________________________________________
March 9, 2011 Page 23 of 33

___________________________________________ Name and Title _______________________________ Signature

____________________ Date

K.4 Certification of Non-Segregated Facilities The Contractor certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor certifies further that it will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause of this Contract. As used in this connection, the term Segregated facilities means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Contractor further agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed Subcontractors for specific periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed Subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause; that it will retain such certifications in its files; and that it will forward the following notice to such proposed Subcontractors (except where the proposed Subcontractors have submitted identical certifications for specific time periods). Notice to prospective Subcontractors of requirements for certification or non segregated facilities. A Certification of Non segregated Facilities must be submitted prior to the award of a subcontract exceeding $10,000 which is not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause. The certification may be submitted either for each subcontract or for all subcontracts during a period (e.g., quarterly, semiannually, annually). NOTE: The penalty for making false statements in offers is prescribed in 18 U.S.C.1001.

Name and Title of Certifying Official _________________________________ Signature

________________ Date

March 9, 2011

Page 24 of 33

K.5 Debarment and Suspension of Certification (a) The Contractor certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief that: (1) The Contractor and/or any of its principals are ___ are not ___ presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency or instrumentality of the United States Senate; (2) The Contractor and/or any of its principals have ___ have not ___, within a three (3) year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, state, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property; (3) The Contractor and/or any of its principals are ____ are not ___ indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Senate entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(2) of this provision. (b) The Contractor certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the Offeror has ____ has not ____ , within a three (3) year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated by default by any Federal agency, or state or municipal agency. (c) For purposes of this provision, principals is defined as officers, directors, owners, partners, and persons having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity. (d) The certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of false, fictitious, or fraudulent certifications may render the maker subject to prosecution under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. (e) The Contractor shall provide immediate written notification to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to Contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (f) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) or (b) above exists will not necessarily result in withholding of award under this solicitation. The certification will be used in connection with a determination of the Offeror's responsibility.

March 9, 2011

Page 25 of 33

L.7.1 VOLUME I - TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS Volume I shall be prepared and submitted as specified below. In Volume I the Offeror shall demonstrate the ability to meet the specifications and requirements in Section C. The information contained in this section will be used as a basis for the evaluation of the factors listed in Section M. Additionally, the proposal shall describe the Offeror's overall qualifications to provide the range and magnitude of services required, including past performance in undertaking such projects. Volume I is limited to twenty five pages, excluding the resumes and project plans. Each page shall be numbered. The Technical Proposal shall contain the following sections: Section 1 Section 2 Section 3 Section 4 Executive Summary Corporate Experience Responses to Requirements Past Performance

L.7.1.1 Section 1 - Executive Summary The Offeror shall present an Executive Summary, containing a brief description of the Offeror's experience and capabilities in providing the sources of information as outlined in this solicitation, and an overview of services, including scope, offered in response to this solicitation. L.7.1.2 Section 2 - Corporate Experience L.7.1.2.1 Offeror Company Information The Offeror shall provide an overview of its company. The overview shall include company history, products and services. This information shall include, at minimum, company name, primary company contact, phone number, fax number, and address. The Offeror shall also provide similar information for any partners, Subcontractors or affiliates providing support services for this solicitation's requirements. L.7.1.2.2 Offeror's Subcontractors The Offeror shall provide a concise description of all Subcontractors that may be providing support services as a part of this solicitation's requirements. Describe Subcontractors role on the contract. The Offeror shall detail prior relationships with each Subcontractor and provide information on contract performance. If the Offeror and Subcontractor have not entered into a prior contractual relationship, discuss why they were chosen for this contract. Describe how the Subcontractors will be integrated into the project organization including description of how the Subcontractors will be managed, the services they will provide, and reports they will provide. The Offeror shall provide a chart that depicts proposed functional and organizational relationships of the staff. L.7.1.2.3 References The Offeror shall provide detailed information about the Offeror's past experience in performing similar work for federal agencies, legislative branch entities or commercial organizations. The Offeror shall provide a list of clients with similar small to large scale enterprise-wide implementations involving complex network security

March 9, 2011

Page 26 of 33

requirements receiving similar services as those described in this solicitation. In addition, Offerors shall list a minimum of three contracts, ongoing or completed within the last three years in which sources similar to those described in this solicitation were provided. For each project listed, the Offeror shall include the following information: (a) Name and address of customer; (b) Description of services provided specifying the source databases, formats and customizations and the dollar value of the services rendered; (c) Description of the tools used to manage the contract for the client; (d) Contract number, scope and beginning and ending dates; and, (e) Name, telephone number, facsimile number of customer contact or Contracting Officer. The Offeror shall provide similar reference information for all of the Offeror's Subcontractors for roles similar to the one for which the Subcontractor firm is proposed. L.7.1.3 Responses to Requirements and Tasks The response shall demonstrate a detailed understanding of the requirements and tasks, and describe approaches and methods that shall be employed in fulfilling this solicitation. The Offeror shall describe in specific detail how it will satisfy each requirement and task in Section C. L.7.1.3.1 Contact Persons The Offeror shall provide the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individuals who may be contacted by the Senate to address any questions or concerns associated with this solicitation response. These individuals will also assist in resolving any contractual concerns or administrative issues that may arise during the term of this solicitation's response. L.7.1.3.2 Other Support Services Document any requirements and tasks in Section C that the Offeror will be unable to satisfy. Explain issues that would keep the Offeror from meeting the requirements. Document any requirements and tasks in Section C that the Offeror will be able to exceed. Explain the capabilities that allow the Offeror to exceed the requirements. L.7.1.4 Section 4 - Reserved L.7.1.5 Section 5 - Reserved L.7.1.6 Section 7 - Past Performance L.7.1.6.1 Past Performance Information Offerors must submit the following information as part of their proposal for both the Offeror and all Subcontractors:

March 9, 2011

Page 27 of 33

(a) A list of the last five contracts completed during the past three years for similar services to the solicitation requirements. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers. Include the following information for each contract: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Name of contracting activity Contract number Contract type Total contract value with the value of each delivery order issued listed separately Detailed synopsis of the Contract work performed Contracting officer and telephone Program manager and telephone Administrative contracting officer List of teaming partners and Subcontractors

(b) The Offeror shall provide information on problems encountered on the contracts identified in (a) above and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. Offerors should provide general information on their performance on the identified contracts; and (c) Each Offeror will be evaluated on his/her performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services. Performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor. The Senate will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration. References may be contacted by the Senate. L.7.1.6.2 Offerors and Subcontractors shall complete and submit the Past Performance Questionnaires, (see Section J, Attachment J-1 Past Performance Questionnaire) as follows: (a) The Offeror shall select five appropriate references for work performed in the past three years which is relevant to the solicitation requirements. The Offeror shall submit the attached Past Performance Questionnaire to the Customers' selected point of contact for the reference, and request that the Customers' Contracting Officer or Technical Representative complete and submit the Performance Questionnaires directly to the SAA POC, Nicole A. Barnes via email to acquisitions2010@saa.senate.gov or via facsimile to (202) 224-9139. NOTE: Past Performance Questionnaire must be received from the Customer by the SAA POC Nicole A. Barnes no later than the solicitation due date and time, April 15, 2011 at 12:00 Noon DST. Questionnaires shall be submitted for the five relevant contracts less than three years old that involve use of services, support and capabilities similar to those necessary for performance of this solicitation. (b) The Offeror shall provide information concerning each of the contracts for which questionnaires are sent by the Offeror and any Subcontractor(s) using the "Past Performance Questionnaire Reference Listing", see Section J, Attachment J-1. (c) The Offeror shall provide a self-assessment of performance to include each of the contracts for which Performance Questionnaires are to be submitted (both Offeror and Subcontractor cited contracts), discussing conditions that led to both desired and less than desired results, and specific examples of how management of these conditions and lessons learned were used to attain performance improvement.

March 9, 2011

Page 28 of 33

L.7.2 VOLUME II - PRICE PROPOSAL L.7.2.1 Price Proposal Instructions Offeror's price proposal shall include sufficient details to allow determination of the reasonableness of the offered prices/rates. The price proposal should breakout pricing for the requirements identified in Section C and provide the Fixed Price for the CLINs provided in Section B.6. Services required under these CLINs shall be Firm Fixed Price (FFP). Offerors shall provide their best price at time of initial offer. Final monetary extensions should be expressed in whole dollars. All proposed prices must be adequately supported. The proposal must include sufficient background to show derivation of all costs. If the cost proposal cannot be understood, it may result in the entire proposal being found to be unacceptable and thus eliminated from the competition. Prices shall be evaluated to determine completeness, reasonableness and competitiveness and shall be evaluated on the basis of the best value to the Senate, as submitted in "Section B - Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs." Congruence between the price and technical proposal shall be evaluated. If Offeror intends to utilize Subcontractors, prices/rate reflected in Section B shall be composite rates. For each planned Subcontractor, provide a brief description of the work, the value of the subcontract, the type of subcontract (fixed price, cost plus, etc.), and the basis for selecting the proposed Subcontractor/teaming partner L.7.2.2 Price Proposal and Section B CLIN Pricing L.7.2.2.1 Requirements, as described in Section C, shall be firm fixed price. The Offerors' firm fixed price shall be inclusive of travel, per diem and other direct costs for these services. The Offeror's Price Proposal must provided detailed breakout of the firm fixed price proposed for services under each CLIN. The Offeror's price proposal supporting rationale must include a narrative and list all services included in the offered price for each CLIN. L.7.2.2.2 The Offeror shall provide pricing in Section B.6 that shall reflect the total firm fixed price for each CLIN. L.7.3 VOLUME III Administrative Proposal L.7.3.1 No page limitation is set for Administrative Proposal Volume. Offerors shall submit only the minimum required information. L.7.3.2 The following, which shall form the basic contract, shall be included in this volume: (a) Signed Section A, Solicitation/Contract Form The Contractor shall complete Section A: Page 1 of the solicitation, subsections 9 through 14. The completed page shall be submitted as a PDF file; (b) Acknowledgment to any solicitation amendment; (c) Completed model contract (Solicitation Sections B-J) with costs and other Offeror information inserted in

March 9, 2011

Page 29 of 33

all blanks; (d) Completed Section K, "Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of the Offeror" for both Prime Contractor and Subcontractor(s) and/or Teaming Partners; (e) A summary which identifies and explains any exceptions to or conditions for any solicitation provision or contract clause. Rationale for the exception and/or condition shall be fully provided as well as reference to the respective provision or clause. The Senate advises Offerors that it intends to evaluate proposals and may award a contract(s) without discussions. Questions regarding terms and conditions shall be addressed only at the Bidders Conference; and (f) Technical and Contractual points-of-contact. Provide telephone and facsimile number as well as E-mail address. L.8 Proposal Delivery Procedures All volumes of the proposal must be received no later than April 15, 2011 at 12:00 Noon DST and must be submitted electronically as an attachment to an email sent to Acquisitions2010@saa.senate.gov to the attention of Nicole A. Barnes. No United States Postal Service, courier deliveries, or any other delivery services or methods of delivery shall be used for this solicitation. SECTION M ­ EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD M.1 Basis for Contract Award This is a best value, competitive source selection conducted in accordance with Senate Procurement Regulations. The Senate intends to award one contract, as determined to be most advantageous to the Senate. The Senate reserves the right not to award a contract depending on the quality of the proposal(s) submitted and the availability of funds. M.1.1 Offer Acceptability The Senate reserves the right to make award based on the initial proposals received. Therefore, the Offeror shall, without exception or reservation, provide the information required in Section L.7.3.2. M.2 Evaluation Procedures The Evaluation Organization will evaluate each Offeror's written submission for Offeror's ability to perform the tasks and provide the deliverables specified in Section C. The Technical Proposal will be evaluated against established evaluation criteria separately from the cost proposal evaluation. The cost proposal will be considered to determine the capability and cost combination that presents the best value to the Senate. The Senate may award without discussions; however, the Senate reserves the right to hold discussions if it is deemed advantageous.

March 9, 2011

Page 30 of 33

M.3 Overall Evaluation Criteria The Offeror's response will be evaluated on technical merit as well an overall evaluation criteria based on the total proposed submission. The technical evaluation will consist of conformance checks on all deliverable requirements. The evaluation will also be subjected to an analysis of accurate information submitted by the Offeror. M.4 Selection Criteria The offeror shall provide services and information sources as stated in Section C, Statement of Work, The evaluation criteria will consist of the following: (a) Determination if all functional and technical requirements have been satisfied, (b) Price; and (c) Past Performance M.5 Risk Assessment The Senate will identify and assess the risk (High, Moderate, Low) associated with the Offeror's proposal and capability. Risk assessments are the Senate's estimates as to the Offeror's ability to perform successfully in light of the Senate's evaluation of the Offeror's proposal. Risk assessments may be associated with technical approach, performance, and other aspects of the proposed support. M.6 Overall Evaluation Criteria The evaluation criteria will be both qualitative and quantitative. The Offeror's response will be evaluated on technical merit as well as be subjected to an overall evaluation criteria based on the total proposed submission. The technical evaluation will consist of conformance checks on all requirements, tasks and deliverables. The evaluation will also be subjected to an analysis of accurate information submitted by the Offeror. M.7 Technical Evaluation Areas/Factors M.7.1 Statement of Work Requirements and Tasks The Offeror's proposal must demonstrate a thorough understanding of, and thoroughly address all requirements, and tasks in the Statement of Work. M.7.2 Corporate Qualifications The Offerors proposal must demonstrate the experience and knowledge to perform the Statement of Work requirements and tasks, and provide credible references, and demonstrate financial stability.

March 9, 2011

Page 31 of 33

M.7.3 Past Performance Questionnaires The performance evaluation will utilize information provided by the Offeror. Performance Questionnaires will assess performance of the Offeror and its Subcontractors as it relates to all solicitation requirements, including the quality of services and products, project management, effectiveness of cost management/ control, timeliness of performance, and customer satisfaction; and indication of ability to improve performance through proactive management of conditions and lessons learned as manifested by a self-assessment of these same contracts. M.7.4 The Senate reserves the right to contact all references provided by the Offeror to clarify information provided. M.8 Cost Evaluation The cost evaluation will determine whether each Offeror's proposed costs are realistic, complete, and reasonable in relation to the solicitation requirements. Proposed costs must be entirely compatible with the written proposal. No advantage will accrue to an Offeror who submits an unrealistically low cost proposal. The Senate may use the results of a cost realism analysis to adjust the Offeror's proposal to a most probable cost to the Senate. The most probable cost will be used to assist in the determination of which proposal offers the best value for the required effort. M.9 Acceptable Proposals The Senate reserves the right to consider as acceptable only those proposals that are submitted in accordance with requirements set forth or referenced in this solicitation. Offerors shall demonstrate an understanding of Senate requirements and a capability to provide the requested support services. The Senate reserves the right to reject proposals that do not address solicitation requirements, including contract terms and conditions. Technical capabilities and past performance will be evaluated on the basis of information furnished by the Offeror. The Contracting Officer may conduct customer interviews and/or reference checks. Offerors are advised that proposals that do not meet solicitation requirements may be eliminated from further consideration. Offerors are further advised that cursory responses which merely reiterate or reformulate the specifications, requirements and tasks set forth in Section C of this solicitation may be found unacceptable and thus also eliminated from further consideration. M.10 Best and Final Offerors (BAFO) The Contracting Officer may, based on the evaluation process described above, decide that award on the basis of initial proposals is not in the best interests of the Senate. In such an instance, the Contracting Officer will establish a competitive range of those Offerors having a reasonable chance for award, will conduct discussions with, and only with, each of the Offerors included in the competitive range, and will request that each of the Offerors so included submit Best and Final Offers. M.11 Oral Presentations The Senate reserves the right to require an oral presentation by the Offeror to the evaluation team or any other designated Senate staff. The Offeror will receive a minimum of three business days notice for the presentation.

March 9, 2011

Page 32 of 33

M.12 Proposals Not Selected Non-selection of a proposal shall mean that either another Offeror's acceptable proposal was deemed to be of greater value to the Senate, or that the Senate has elected not to award a contract. Offerors whose proposals are not selected for award will be notified. Unsuccessful Offerors may request a debriefing, such request to be made within five business days of notification. The actual schedule of the debriefing will be determined by the Senate.

March 9, 2011

Page 33 of 33

