
41382.0
361 RCS McChord (WA Sites)
Solicitation FA8773-13-R-0068 CLIN 0002 CLIN 0003 CLIN 0004 CLIN 0005
Services & Function Items CLIN 0001
SLIN DESCRIPTION Unit of Issue Quantity Unit Cutover Total Cutover Charges Non-Recurring Charges (NRC) Total NRC Monthly Recurring Charges (MRC) Total MRC Monthly Taxes/Fees/
Surcharges (TS&F) Total TS&F Yearly Not To Exceed
 
A Installation & Cutover
A A Installation Plan EA 1.0
A B Cutover Plan EA 1.0
B Customer Service Records & Invoice Reconciliation Report
B A Customer Services Record (CSR) EA 6.0
B B Invoice Reconciliation Report (IRR) EA 6.0
B C  - BZ Reserved
C YEARLY NOT TO EXCEED PER FISCAL YEAR
C A Miscellaneous Charges Associated with Validated Intra-LATA Toll Calls Billed by Local Exchange Carrier 500.0
C B  - CZ Reserved
Recurring Costs - Site Locations
D 61AC 313 Telegraph Rd, Bellingham WA 98226
D (360)734-0104/3910
D A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 2.0
D B Call Waiting EA 1.0
D C  - DZ Reserved
E 61BC 16600 South Center Parkway, Suite 130, Tukwila WA 98188
(206)575-7825/7924/7937
E A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
E B Public Listing EA 3.0
E C  - EZ Reserved
F 61BD 2998 NW Bucklin Hill Rd, PO Box 2537, Silverdale WA 98383
(360)698-2900/7004/4925
F A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
F B Caller ID EA 2.0
F C  - FZ Reserved
H 61CA 15018 Pacific Ave S., Tacoma WA 98444
(253)539-8607/8632
H A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 2.0
H B  - HZ Reserved
I 61CD 1360 Galaxy Dr NE, Lacey WA 98503
(360)456-1475/3164/1011
I A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
I B  - IZ Reserved
J 61CF 2000 Tacoma Mall Office Bldg. 4301 S Pine St, Ste 101, Tacoma WA 98409
(253)475-8200/8201/474-9779
J A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
J B Caller ID EA 3.0
J C  - JZ Reserved
K 61CI 101 37th Ave, SE, Suite A4, Puyallup WA 98374
(253)841-4433/770-9468
K A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 2.0
K B Call Waiting EA 2.0
K C  - KZ Reserved
L 61CO 2000 Tacoma Mall Office Bldg, 4301 S Pine St, Ste 525, Tacoma WA 98409
(253)475-2329/2352/476-8616
L A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
L B Internet Services (Upload 896 Kbps, Download 1.5 Mbps, Static) EA 1.0
L C  - LZ Reserved
M 61DC 8109 NE Vancouver Mall Dr., Vancouver WA 98662
(360)892-0730/253-6746/944-0784
M A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
M B  - MZ Reserved
N 61DF 740 Ocean Beach Hwy, Longview WA 98832
(360)423-9570/414-5224
N A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 2.0
N B Call Forward, No Answer EA 1.0
N C Call Forward, Busy EA 1.0
N D Call Waiting EA 2.0
N E Caller ID EA 1.0
N F  - NZ Reserved
O 61DO 404 E 15th, Ste 10, Vancouver WA 98862
(360)735-9065/1158/1174
O A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 3.0
O B  - OZ Reserved
P 61HB 1631 West Rose Street, Walla Walla WA 99362
(509)522-0661
P A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 1.0
P B Call Waiting EA 1.0
P C Call Forward EA 1.0
P D Directory Listing EA 1.0
P E  - PZ Reserved
Q 61HD 2529 Main St, Fairview WA 98903
(509)248-2030
Q A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 1.0
Q B Call Waiting EA 1.0
Q C  - QZ Reserved
R RSCO 2000 Tacoma Mall Office Bldg, 4301 S Pine St, Ste 101, Tacoma WA 98409
(253)473-3865
R A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 1.0
R B  - RZ Reserved
S 61XC 2001 6th, Ste 2705 Bld Westin, Seattle WA 98121
(206)441-5859/5893/5897/5898
S A Flat Rate, Basic Services, Analog EA 4.0
S B  - SZ Reserved
Total 500.0
41382.0
Solictiation FA8773-13-R-0068
LOCAL COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
AT
361st McChord (WA Sites)
CLIN Services & Function Items Actual Monthly Actual Annually Actual 5.0 Year
Total
0001 CUTOVER
0002 NON-RECURRING CHARGES (NRC)
0003 MONTHLY RECURRING CHARGES (MRC)
0004 MONTHLY TAXES, FEES, AND SURCHARGES
0005 YEARLY NOT TO EXCEED 41.6666666667 500.0 2500.0
Total  500.0 2500.0
Grand Total -  5.0 Year CSA 2500.0







                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK

                                                                      (SOW)

                                                                       FOR

                                                            361 RCS McChord (WA Sites)

                                                                 LOCAL COMMERCIAL

                                                           SERVICE AUTHORIZATION (CSA)

                                                                  18 April 2013







1.   Scope.


   1. General Requirements.  This Statement of Work (SOW) is a comprehensive description of local exchange access services the Air Force
      requires a Contractor to be technically capable of providing.  Specific service requirements to be currently authorized are identified in
      the Appendix10.  In cutover situations, the contractor has the option of porting the commercial number(s) or reselling the commercial
      services. Long distance services for each site are currently being provided under the Networx contract or any subsequent follow-on
      contract established by DISA for long distance services and charges and are not authorized on this CSA. The contractor shall follow all
      Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Public Utility Commission (PUC), Department of Defense (DOD), Air Force (AF) and industry
      standards for this requirement.


   2. Competitive Economic Advantage Consideration.  The local exchange or Dial Central Office services provided for under the pricing, terms,
      and conditions of this contract are principally intended to meet known installation service requirements and an estimate of the type of
      services that may be required during the term of the contract.  Where the contracting officer determines usage of the contract to be cost
      effective and the contractor providing such services to the Government agrees and has the additional capability to provide services to
      other installations or agencies within 100 miles of the principal place of performance, orders may be placed for such additional services.
       When an order is placed and the contractor initiates performance, all terms and conditions of this contract shall apply.

2. Documents.  The contractor shall acquire a list of applicable industry standards that shall be followed in the performance of the contract.
   These documents shall be made available to the Government upon request.


3. Requirements.

   1. The Appendix 10 identifies the Local Commercial Communications Services required, including characteristics, quantities, and locations, as
      applicable.


   2. The Point of Contact (POC) at the Government installation is responsible for telecommunications activities and will be identified in the
      Appendix 10.  After services are authorized by the 38th Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall coordinate with the Government POC prior
      to the installation, removal, expansion, and/or change out of equipment.

   3. The Government will provide floor space for the installation of the Contractor’s provided transmission equipment.  The Government will
      provide adequate wall space should the contractor not require floor/rack space.  The Government will provide electrical power and room
      environment for the installation of the Contractor equipment.  When additional rack space, floor space, or wall space is required to
      support Government requirements, the Contractor shall coordinate with the Government POC.

   4. Local Commercial Communications Services.


       1.  Installation and Cutover.   The Contractor shall develop an installation and cutover plan for submittal to the Government no later
          than (NLT) 15 calendar days after award.  The Government requires 15 working days to review and provide comments/acceptance.  The
          Contractor shall provide a final plan, NLT 10 working days, after receipt of the Government comments.  The Contractor shall not
          commence on-site installation and cutover until the Contractor receives Government acceptance of the service installation and cutover
          plan.  Installation of the initial required services for cutover of Local Commercial Communications Service requirements is specified
          in the Appendix 10.  Installation, circuit assignments, all possible/applicable testing, records’ management, cutover and Government
          acceptance shall be completed NLT sixty (60) after contract award.   Deviations from the final Installation Plan will be coordinated
          with the Government prior to any work being accomplished in the affected area.  The contractor shall ensure that all circuits,
          equipment, and service provided by the incumbent, under the prior contract, are disconnected/discontinued/removed from site upon
          successful cutover.  In the event that the contract award is made to the incumbent Contractor, no installation/cutover plans will be
          required.  Any omissions or discrepancies in the installation and cutover plan does not relief the contractor’s responsibility to
          install, cutover and perform all services as identified in this requirement. It is the contractor’s responsibility to resolve any
          problems associated with these efforts.


           1. Installation Plan.  The Installation Plan shall, at a minimum, contain the following site specific information:
              a. Description of new equipment to be installed (include any site support required to support this installation).
              b. Detailed location of equipment to be installed.
              c. Floor Plan Layout.
              d. Installation schedule.


           2. Cutover Plan.  The Cutover Plan shall, at a minimum, contains the following site specific information:
              a. Conditions/Support required being in place prior to the start of cutover.
              b. A detailed listing of actions/events that must occur for successful cutover of all items identified in the Appendix 10.
              c. A listing of the awarded contractor responsibilities.
              d. A listing of the incumbent contractor responsibilities.
              e. A listing of Government responsibilities
              f. A dialing test plan to ensure ported numbers work correctly
              g. A dialing test to access the Government Emergency Telecommunications Services (GETS).


       2. Commercial Subscriber Lines


           1. Commercial Subscriber Lines (CSL).  The Contractor shall provide subscriber lines as specified in the Appendix 10.  Local exchange
              access, as applicable, shall include commercial subscriber lines and foreign exchange (FX) lines.  A CSL is defined by Government
              standards as a voice grade subscriber line serving directly from the contractor’s central office switch to customer’s location. CSL
              termination shall be to the telephone jack in the room designated by the customer. A central office CSL can be terminated to a
              telephone set, fax, modem, etc., to provide voice grade communications to the Public Switch Telephone Network for a single user.
              Foreign exchange lines are defined by the Government as telephone numbers which are outside of the site local calling area.  By
              connecting to a remote (foreign) exchange, the equivalent of local service from a distant exchange is provided.


           2. Commercial Subscriber Line Basic Service (BS).  BS of a line, as a minimum, shall include the following:
              a. Dial Tone
              b. Direct Inward Dialing
              c. Direct Outward Dialing
              d. Dual Tone Multi-Frequency (DTMF)
              e. Local Exchange Access
              f. Equal Access
              g. Call Blocking for Numbering Plan Area (NPA) 900
              h. Operator Assistance (0+ & 00+)
              i. 911/E911 services, where available
              j. Non-published Directory Number
              k. Service Disconnect with Referral Service (the referral service shall be at least three (3) months after a customer has been
                 moved, changed, or disconnected
              l. Block Third Party Billing
              m. Toll free access


           3. Commercial Subscriber Line Optional Features or Functions.  The Contractor shall provide optional line features as specified in the
              Appendix 10.  An optional feature could be an individual feature or a group of features or functions.


           4. Subscriber Line Relocation.  The Contractor shall perform subscriber line relocation(s) and shall provide information needed for
              database updates for 911/E911 service purposes within one hour of completion of relocation.

           5. Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS).  The Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) is a White
              House-directed emergency phone service provided by the National Communications System (NCS) in the Cyber Security & Communications
              Division, National Protection and Programs of the Department of Homeland Security. GETS supports Federal, State, local, and tribal
              government, industry, and non-governmental organization (NGO) personnel in performing their National Security and Emergency
              Preparedness (NS/EP) missions. GETS provides emergency access and priority processing in the local and long distance segments of
              the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). It is intended to be used in an emergency or crisis situation when the PSTN is
              congested and the probability of completing a call over normal or other alternate telecommunication means has significantly
              decreased. The servicing LEC must have NPA (710) in their switch to allow access to the GETS line assigned to a specific site.
              Dialing 0/1+710-NXX-XXXX provides access to an emergency service for authorized users. The 710 NPA provides access to a tariffed
              service of the GETS interexchange carriers (AT&T, MCI WorldCom, and Sprint) and the call is billed to the U.S. Government. NOTE –
              The Government does not provide the contractor to allow any 10-10 dial around access on awarded contracts.


       3. Local Exchange Access and Service Areas.  The Contractor shall provide flat rate (FR) or measured rate services within local calling
          areas as identified in the Appendix 10.  The local exchange access service areas shall, as a minimum, include the areas/zones coverage
          as currently defined by the incumbent local service provider(s) and/or the State PUC for the Site and shall be applied under the scope
          of this contract.  Access to the local exchange shall include Operator Assistance, Directory Assistance, and 911 services and
          functions.


       4. Number Portability.  The Contractor shall provide number portability for commercial subscriber lines.  The Contractor shall comply with
          the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and the State Public Utility Commission (PUC) mandates for number portability.

   5. Restoration of Service and Maintenance.  The Contractor shall respond and restore service outages. Once notified of an outage, the
      Contractor shall respond to the Government within one (1) hour. Below are the type of service outages and their required restoration
      timeframes.


       1. Mission-Essential Outage.  This site has no mission-essential services.


       2. Catastrophic Outage.  The Government POC can declare any outage as a catastrophic outage if the outage significantly affects Government
          operations. A catastrophic outage is normally a sudden and widespread disaster stemming from the result of a man made or natural
          disaster in which property and site network infrastructure are completely destroyed. The Contractor will prioritize and perform
          restorations IAW the Department of Homeland Security’s Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) program.  (The Government POC is
          responsible for submitting the services restoration priority list to the TSP program.)  In the event that the Contractor anticipates
          not being able to perform any of the essential contractor services IAW the TSP during a crisis situation, the Contractor shall notify
          the Contracting Officer or other designated representative as expeditiously as possible and use its best efforts to cooperate with the
          Government in the Government’s efforts to maintain the continuity of operations.  Restore service time will be in accordance with the
          local TSP requirements.


       3. Emergency Outage.  The Government POC can declare any outage as an emergency outage if an outage significantly affects Government
          operations.  Emergency is defined by the government as any outage that severely hampers the Air force mission and can be restored
          within the restoration parameters. Restore service within four (4) hours from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s
          notification.

       4. Serious Outage.   The Government POC can declare any outage as a serious outage if an outage significantly affects Government
          operations. Restore service within twenty-four (24) hours from the time the Contractor responds to the Government’s notification

       5. Routine Outage.  The Government POC can declare any outage as a routine outage if an outage does not seriously affect the mission, but
          does hamper day-to-day operation of the Government installation. Restore service within two (2) calendar days from the time the
          Contractor responds to the Government’s notification.

       6. Scheduled Outage.  The Contractor shall advise the Government POC of any scheduled outage that will affect ANY of the telecommunication
          services.  The Contractor shall inform the Government POC 30 days in advance of the scheduled outage and provide a detailed explanation
          for the outage to include the amount of downtime.

   6. 911/E911 Services.  The Contractor shall provide access to 911 or enhanced 911 services, where available, through the local city or county
      emergency services organization. Contractor shall provide, where applicable, 911/E911 database maintenance of official numbers to ensure
      the 911/E911 database is updated within one hour after completion of a work order where telephone number was installed, relocated, or
      disconnected. This applies to all official telephone numbers.


   7. Public Listings.  The Contractor shall provide public listings, cross reference listings, and foreign listings for the Government
      installation.  The listings shall be listed in the Government section and/or alphabetical section.  The Contractor shall coordinate with
      the Government POC to obtain a list and the contents of the Public Listings.  The contents of each cross reference listing shall, as a
      minimum, include the organization title and a referral statement to the appropriate Government Agency.  All other listings shall, as a
      minimum, include the Government title, organization title, address, and telephone number.

   8. Telephone Directories.  The Contractor shall provide local telephone directories for the site .

   9. Service Orders.  From the time of receipt of the work order, the Contractor shall complete the work order within the specified time
      limits.  The work orders will be determined by the Government POC as emergency, priority, or routine services.  If it is determined by the
      Contractor that the service order time frames cannot be met, the Contractor will contact the Government POC.

       1. Emergency Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within three (3) calendar days.


       2. Priority Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within seven (7) calendar days.

       3. Routine Services.  The Contractor shall complete work orders within fourteen (14) calendar days.

  10. Customer Service Records (CSR).  The Contractor will establish a single Billing Telephone Number (BTN) for all awarded services.  The same
      BTN will be utilized for any subsequent service changes as a direct result of any contract modification issued by the 38 CEIG contracting
      office.  The Contractor shall update CSR no later than ten (10) working days after a service ordered has been activated.


       1. Contractor format for the CSR shall be in MSWord or Excel format and may be provided to the requestor via hard paper copy, CD, or
          electronic email; however the following information is required for each type of service circuit.


       2.  Commercial Subscriber Lines:  User name/office symbol, user address (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip
          code), directory number, demarcation location (Bldg # - if applicable, street address, city/base, state & zip code), description of
          service type for each item or sub-item, optional features provided, quantity, non-recurring costs, monthly recurring costs, and
          activity date.

       3. The CSR will also include a total monthly cost for all services.

       4. The Contractor shall provide a copy of all Customer Service Records to the Government POC and 38 CONS/LGCB contracting officer  when
          requested, not to exceed four (4) per year.

       5. The Contractor shall provide (where applicable) the customer, to include 38 CONS/LGCB personnel, the ability to access through a portal
          monthly billing documents and CSR information. This will provide the AF the ability to extract the required account information without
          interaction by the Contractor thus streamlining the need to review and download billing and CSR documentation.

  11. Invoice Reconciliation Report.  The Contractor shall provide an Invoice Reconciliation Report (IRR) analysis with the CSA NLT than 60 days
      after award.  After initial submission, the Contractor shall provide the Invoice Reconciliation Report by 30 Sep of each year in the
      period of performance for this contract.  Two copies will be required:  One copy will be sent to the Government POC and one copy will be
      sent to the 38 CONS/LGCB Contracting Officer at Tinker AFB.  Contractor format for the Invoice Reconciliation report is acceptable;
      however the following information shall be summarized in report format:


       1. CSA contract Number and location of site


       2. Summary total of any invoices billed on this CSA from Sep to Aug of reporting year.


       3. CSA Summary of services added, deleted or changed during the reporting period.

  12. Contract Management.


       1. Meetings.  The Contractor’s project manager shall be available from Monday to Friday, between 7:00 am to 5:00 pm local time, to meet
          the Government POC  n-site for technical interchange discussions.  A meeting will be scheduled within ten (10) business days for a
          routine service requirement, five (5) business days for an essential service requirement that may need special attention, or two (2)
          business days for a mission essential requirement needing immediate attention.


       2. Support.  The Contractor shall assist Government representatives with testing and implementation of a new service.

       3. Point-of-Contact.  The Contractor shall provide a 24-hour point-of-contact telephone number for the notification of telephone/circuit
          outages and services.

       4. Purchase descriptions for service contracts (reference DFARS 211.106).  Contractor employees shall identify themselves as contractor
          personnel by introducing themselves or being introduced as contractor personnel and displaying distinguishing badges or other visible
          identification for meetings with Government personnel. In addition, contractor personnel shall appropriately identify themselves as
          contractor employees in telephone conversations and in formal and informal written correspondence.

  13. Regulations and Policies.  The Contractor shall follow all base regulations and policies regarding security, safety, and environment and
      federal, state, and local regulations, as applicable.  The Government POC conducts a local regulation and policy briefing prior to the
      commencement of work.


       1. Safety Training and Education.  The Contractor must have a safety and health plan for the employees.  The employer shall instruct each
          employee in the recognition and avoidance of unsafe conditions and the regulations applicable to his work environment to control or
          eliminate any hazards or other exposure to illness or injury.


       2. Safety and Health.  The Contractor shall meet with the local safety and bioenvironmental personnel prior to work surveys to determine
          any potential problems with the projected work in areas that may contain asbestos, hazardous materials, and hazardous wastes.  The
          Contractor shall follow local procedures established by the local safety and health offices.  Reference the instructions in CFR 29,
          Part 1926.58, Appendix G for proximate to asbestos containing materials.  The Contractor shall meet with the local Civil Engineers to
          determine proper procedures for disposal of residue hazardous materials and empty hazardous materials containers.

       3. Hazardous Material Reporting on Federal Installations.  The Contractor (primary and sub) are required to provide Material Safety Data
          Sheets (MSDS) on each hazardous material/compound that will be used in the performance of work specified by Government contract.  The
          MSDSs will be provided to the federal facilities Environmental Management Office for approval of use prior to any use of the hazardous
          materials (paints, solvents, cleaners, encapsulating compounds, etc.).  Hazardous materials are not permitted on any federal facility
          until approval has been processed and granted through the local Environmental Management.  There are no exceptions to this requirement.

       4. Ozone Depletion.  No ozone depleting chemicals or compounds will be used during the performance of work.  (EPA Clean Air Act, 1991
          Revision).

       5. Accident/Incident Reporting and Investigation.  The Contractor shall record and report to the CSO all available facts relating to each
          instance of accidental damage to Government property or injury to either Contractor or Government personnel.  The Contractor shall
          secure the accident scene and wreckage until released by the accident investigative authority through the CSO and contracting officer.
          If the Government elects to conduct an investigation of the incident, the Contractor shall cooperate fully and assist the Government
          personnel until the investigation is completed.

       6. Subcontractors Safety.  The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring his/her subcontractors comply with all the provisions of this
          contract.

  14. Special Service.  When future requirements indicate a special service is required, a separate proposal shall be negotiated with the
      Contracting Officer.  No work shall be authorized until receipt of the contract modification has been signed by the 38 CONS/LGCB
      Contracting Officer.  In addition, the contractor shall not proceed with services until receipt of DD Form 1367 from CSO.  Any special
      service requested shall comply with the paragraphs of Sections 3.0 through 3.13 of this SOW. Special Services may include:
              a. Moving or relocating equipment
              b. Providing temporary facilities
              c. Expediting provision of facilities
              d. Providing specially constructed channel facilities to meet Government requirements
4. Security Requirements.  Contractor must comply with the following security requirements while on an Air Force Base.


   1. Pass and Identification Items.  The contractor shall ensure the pass and identification items required for contract performance are
      obtained for employees and non-government owned vehicles.


       1. Before arrival, the contractor must mail or fax a Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) to the Government POC listing the name, social
          security number, date of birth, and clearance level of the individuals who will be visiting the installation.  The VAL must provide the
          purpose of the visit, the dates of the visit, and a POC.


       2. Upon receipt, the VAL will be given to the Visitor Control Center for issuance of an AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass.

   2. Retrieving Identification Media.  The contractor shall retrieve all identification media, including vehicle passes from employees who
      depart for any reason before the contract expires; e.g. terminated for cause, retirement, etc.


   3. Traffic Laws.  The contractor and its employees shall comply with base traffic regulations.

   4. Weapons, Firearms, and Ammunition.  Contractor employees are prohibited from possessing weapons, firearms, or ammunition, on themselves or
      within their contractor-owned vehicle or privately-owned vehicle.

   5. For Official Use Only (FOUO).  The contractor shall comply with DoD 5400-7-R, Chapter 4, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program,
      and requirements.  This regulation sets policy and procedures for the disclosure of records to the public and for marking, handling,
      transmitting, and safeguarding FOUO material.

   6. Physical Security.  The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property and controlled forms provided for
      contractor use.  At the end of each work period, all government facilities, equipment, and materials shall be secured.

   7. Controlled/Restricted Areas.  The contractor shall implement local base procedures for entry to Air Force controlled/restricted areas
      where contractor personnel will work.  An AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, must be completed and signed by the
      sponsoring agency’s Security Manager before a Restricted Area Badge will be issued.  Contractor employees must have a completed National
      Agency Check, Local Agency Check, and Credit Check (NACLC) investigation before receiving a Restricted Area Badge.

   8. Key Control.  The contractor shall establish and implement methods of making sure all keys issued to the contractor by the Government are
      not lost or misplaced and are not used by unauthorized persons.  The contractor shall not duplicate any keys issued by the government.



       1. The contractor shall immediately report to the CSO any occurrences of lost or duplicated keys.


       2. In the event keys, other than master keys, are lost or duplicated, the contractor may be required, upon written direction of the
          contracting officer, to re-key or replace the affected lock or locks without cost to the government.  The government may, however, at
          its option, replace the affected lock or locks or perform re-keying and deduct the cost of such from the monthly payment due the
          contractor.  In the event a master key is lost or duplicated, all locks and keys for that system shall be replaced by the government
          and the total cost deducted from the monthly payment due the contractor.

       3. The contractor shall prohibit the use of keys, issued by the government, by any persons other than the contractor’s employees and the
          opening of locked areas by contractor employees to permit entrance of persons other than contractor employees engaged in performance of
          contract work requirements in those areas.

   9. Lock Combinations.  The contractor shall control access to all government provided lock combinations to preclude unauthorized entry.  The
      contractor is not authorized to record lock combinations without written approval by the CSO.  Records with written combinations to
      authorized secure storage containers, secure storage rooms, or certified vaults, shall be marked and safeguarded at the highest
      classification level as the classified material maintained inside the approved containers.


5. Site Specific Special Requirements.   Site Specific requirements are identified in the Appendix 10.
