Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014 

  Total Delivery Services (TDS) Market Research Questions and Answers 
  Q.1.    PWS para: 1.1.8.2  Size Weight Limitations  Please consider removing individual packages cannot exceed 300 lbs. in dimensional weight, as it would  be difficult for contractors to regulate and for customers to adhere.    A.1.  Elimination of the 300 lb. dimensional limitation would widen the scope beyond what is intended for  this contract.  As the requirement is spelled out in the PWS, shippers have fair notice of the requirement  to comply with this limitation.    Q.2.  1.1.11.1 Shipping systems  It is imperative shippers provide connection necessary for contractor's shipping systems. We suggest the  following:     The contractor shall provide a shipping system (hardware and software) to accounts averaging 25 or  more contract shipments with the contractor each week at no additional cost to the Government, when  requested by the shipper. If the contractor provides a shipping system to commercial customer using a  lesser number of shipments, the lesser number shall be used. The contractor shall have 30 days to  provide shipping systems after a qualified shipper makes a request. This requirement includes delivery,  maintenance installation/setup, and initial training required on the system. The shipper must provide a  secure communication channel in which the shipping device can communicate to the carrier.  The  communication channel must be a highspeed connection using DSL, cable, or fiber optic (FiOS)  providers. Shippers may also connect the shipping hardware to their existing network in order to  manage communications to and from the shipping device.  In the event that the shipping device is  connected through an existing military network, the shipper is obligated to secure the hardware using  his or her own network security rules and guidelines.  Shipper may install any necessary security or anti virus software on the hardware to preserve the integrity of the military network.  Shipper will be  responsible to perform security scans, implementing required windows updates, and security patches.    A.2.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.3.  1.1.13.3 Ordering  Customers should be advised that additional carrier or Government required U.S. export paperwork  might be required to accompany the shipment.    A.3.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.4.  1.1.16.1 Invoicing/Billing/Payment 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  Request consideration for OCONUS customers to pay in other currencies. This has been a frequent  request under the current contract.    A.4.  Syncada accounts are initially set up for payment in U.S. dollars; allowing shippers to change to foreign  currency would result in undue/overwhelming workload on U.S. Bank, DFAS, and Services' TPPS  agencies.     Q.5.  1.1.16.2  Suggest USTC include language that this contract does not support WAWF.    A.5.  As this contract also supports nonDoD customers, the contract requires the flexibility to accommodate  use of their existing payment systems which historically has included WAWF.    Q.6.  1.1.17  Suggest requirement read that the contractor shall provide either a toll free telephone service or an e mail address for WWX issues.    A.6.  Customers require the flexibility to determine how they can contact the carrier based on limitations  within their location (e.g. Forward Operating Bases).    Q.7.  1.2.2.1 Basic Services  Suggest changing the weight limit to 300 lbs. for all services    A.7.  The threshold of 150 lbs for domestic services is a strategic decision of the command to ensure sufficient  AMC channel utilization, among other factors.    Q.8.  1.2.2.4 Delivery Commitment Guarantee  Request industry standard, which is credit/refund must be requested by the shipper within 15 days of  invoice date or 15 days from ship date.    A.8.  Will maintain the 30 day requirement set in the PWS to allow high volume shipping locations (DLA, large  aerial ports, and OCONUS locations) sufficient time to determine late deliveries.    Q.9.  1.2.3 Domestic Accessorial Services  Request that carriers be allowed to assess all accessorial charged commercially to WWX6. Attached is a  listing of accessorials for consideration.     

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014    A.9.  All commercial accessorials were reviewed and taken into consideration in the development of the  standardized accessorial listing included in Attachment 2, CLIN Matrix.  If additional accessorials are  requested throughout the period of performance, they will be considered by the Contracting Officer.     Q.10.  1.2.13 Ordering  We recommend current BPA verbiage pertaining to the issuance of POs be incorporated  "no further  purchase order documents, call order, delivery order, task order or blanket purchase agreements, etc.  are required."    A.10.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.11.  4.1.1 Administrative Service Charge  Current monthly SI files are "snapshots" of current activity. Actual payments by the government may  vary due to service and billing adjustments. For example, the data on a report published in January may  vary if the same information is pulled in March.  It will not be the most efficient way to determine ASC  fees several months in the future. Auditing detailed shipment data will be difficult due to the high  number of transactions. This could potentially result in an inaccurate ASC payment.  ASC check request  approval time. Combining Domestic and International ASC fees into one payment will dramatically  increase the check amount. This will require additional layers of approval, which could potentially delay  the payment. We will need up to 60 days to ensure the additional approvals.    A.11.  Incorporated 60 days as recommended.    Q.12.  Definitions, Appendix 6.1  Letter/Pack ­ request that definition state weight limits may apply as in carrier's commercial service  guide.     A.12.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.13.  Appendix 6.5 IGC Data Feed Requirements.  Contractor should be required to report the TCN only if  provided by shipper.  A.13.  Clarified Appendix 6.5, paragraph 9.a. to state, "(if provided by shipper)" after TCN.    Q.14.   The EDI transmission is a real time preaudited transmission; hence, shipper provided data is  transmitted, not invoiced data. Invoicing occurs after the Proof of Delivery and is not in a format that 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  can be captured by EDI. Therefore, EDI feed should be in pounds or kilos to reflect information provided  by shipper.    A.14.  Incorporated "(K for Kilograms)" in paragraph 9.d. of Appendix 6.5    Q.15.  Attachment 2 CLIN Matrix. Request special lanes for Israel and other countries, as follows:    Oman  Djibouti  Australia (Darwin)   Turkey: Incirlik  and Malatya   Greece: Souda  Portugal: Azores island   Israel  Ethiopia    A.15.  Incorporated lanes for each country as recommended.    Q.16.  Request the following changes to Appendix 6.6, TDS Theaters:  Region A  Remove Netherland Antilles  Add   Anguilla, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Guadeloupe,  Montserrat, St Barthelemy, St Kitts & Nevis,  St Maarten/Saint Maarten, St Martin, St Vincent, Turks &  Caicos  Region B  Add French Guiana  Region C  Add Andorra,  Faeroe Island  Region D  Change SerbiaMontenegro to Serbia,  Add Greenland, Montenegro  Region F  Add Bhutan, Maldives, Palestine Authority  Region G  Change Ivory Coast to Cote d'Ivoire, Add Algeria, Congo, Liberia, Libya, Reunion Island,  Tonga  Region H  Add Hong Kong, Macau, Mongolia  Region I  Change Papa New Guinea to Papua New Guinea, Add Cook Islands, French Polynesia, New  Caledonia, Samoa, TimorLeste, Vanuatu, Wallis & Futuna    A.16.  Incorporated requested changes to TDS Theaters.    Q.17.  1.1.2.7.2.1 Delivery Guarantee  Can you differentiate the requirement for third party payment notes and ebill function. For example, in  Syncada we do notes but not ebill.  Commercially, ebill is available for credit requests.    A.17.  EBills may be used as a supplement to charges made on original invoices.  For example, an Ebill may be  used as either a Charge Buyer (which results in a credit to Carrier) or Charge Seller (which results as a 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  credit to GOV).  Typically it is used for supplemental charges, refunds, and changes to an original invoice  within the system.       The notes feature is used to communicate actions between Buyer and Seller and can be used for  information which helps in solve the Final payment settled action.  Basically a communication tool  electronically vs telecon to resolve pricing.  All notes are maintained electronically as a part of the  record.    Q.18.  4.2 Contractor Reports  We realize the reports are a valuable tool and needed as soon as possible, but would USTC consider  staggering the due date for reports to lessen the burden of compiling multiple Governmental reports  with the same deadline?    A.18.  The detail report requirements for each service segment (i.e. international and domestic) have been  consolidated, and only one report is due on the 19th of each month for the previous month's activity.   Based on internal reporting deadlines, we cannot extend the date any further.    Q.19.  1.1.13.3 Ordering  Customers should be advised that additional carrier or Government required U.S. export paperwork  might be required to accompany the CBL.  This also applies to domestic small and freight (above 150  lbs.) shipments.    A.19.  See response to Q.3.    Q.20.  Appendix 6.2 High Volume Shipping Locations  Should DLA Bahrain be added as a HVSL?     A.20.  At this time, DLA Bahrain does not qualify as an HVSL based on volume.    Q.21.  I'd like to expand the language related to Customs Clearance Processes, Fees and Accessorials within   the contract.  In general, the transportation rate we quote is door to door, customs cleared. We've had  issues where special permits are required for DoD shipments, a formal entry is required which incurs  additional fees, or a formal Customs clearance process  or additional fees are based upon the value of  the  commodity. These are commodity and value dynamic and can't readily be built into a transportation  rate structure.     A.21.  USTRANSCOM will work with the carrier and internally to try to improve the vetting of new customs fees   supported by appropriate documentation.       

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  Q.22.  There are a couple of fields in the monthly report that could easily be eliminated:              Theater_name            Region    A.22.  These two fields have been made "N/A".  The Government will monitor the impact of this designation  for additional consideration of complete removal.    Q.23.  Page 5  1.1.2.5. Attempted Delivery   Request reattempts be made in accordance with the carrier's commercial practice.     A.23.  Based on customer requirements, consignor's need a standard of three attempts.  With the diversity of  shippers, we require the need to standardize terms and conditions as a matter of best value.     Q.24.  1.1.2.6. Refusal by Consignee   Request verbiage be included stating returns will be made at the payer's expense.     A.24.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.25.  1.1.2.7.2.1. Delivery Guarantee   Request the option of notes or ebill TPPS functions.    A.25.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.26.  1.1.2.9. Addressing your package   Note telephone numbers are requested for international shipments    A.26.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.27.  1.1.10.3. Adjustment of Shipment Weights   Please define `persons.'    A.27.  Revised 1.1.13.3. to specify "customers" instead of "persons".     Q.28. 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  1.1.19. Customs   Please include inaccurate paperwork may result in duties/taxes, which will have to be disputed following  carrier's procedures.    A.28.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.29.  1.2.12.1. Commercial Forms and Procedures   Please add additional documentation may be required ­ as with international shipments. For example,  when using Government Bills of Lading.    A.29.  The PWS does not make reference to additional documentation being required under the international  segment (i.e. PWS paragraph 1.1.12).    Q.30.  1.1.14. Damage or Loss   Please include declared value or replacement value/insurance.    A.30.  Replacement insurance is not offered to shippers as part of this contract.    Q.31.  Including multiple accessorials on one line of the detail report will be problematic given the anticipated  volume.     A.31.  Reports were previously consolidated to streamline the reporting requirement applicable to all carriers.     Q. 32.  Confirming USTRANSCOM requests for report totals, which can be incorporated, but may not be desired  by USTRANSCOM analyst.     A.32.   In terms of Appendix 6.11, SemiAnnual Report of Sales and Revenue, report totals are autopopulated  based on a preestablished formula.  The Detail Report (Appendix 6.3) does not have a requirement for  report totals.    Q.33.  Attachment 2 CLIN Matrix  Expected volumes are missing. Will additional volumes be provided?    A.33.  The volumes currently in the spreadsheet are the final version that will be provided.  Certain "Estimated  Volume" columns are blank as we do not have access to the historical shipment information, nor do we  have an accurate estimate of future shipment volume.   

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  Q.34.  Would USTRANSCOM consider removing low volume routes (see below) to improve efficiencies?                                               X001BFIraq to CONUS  53   X001CZS. Korea to                                              Germany  48   X001DDTurkey to                                              Germany  42   X001CTKuwait to                                              Germany  35                                                  X001DKAustralia to Japan  8                                                  X001DTKuwait to Japan  6   X001CPBelgium to                                                 Germany  4                                                  X001EAJapan to S. Africa  1   X001EFCamp Marmal  to                                                 CONUS  1   X001CHFOB Fenty to                                              CONUS       X001CVPortugal to                                               Germany                                                    X001EBS. Africa to Japan         A.34  SLINs X001EA and X001EB will be removed.  All other lanes are being maintained to ensure that there is  lateral capability.    Q.35.  International Transit Times  Should transit times be calculated in calendar or business days?    A.35.  Business days.  As indicated in Appendix 6.3, Field Seq 46, pickup day, weekends, holidays, and  authorized delays are not counted as transit time.    Q.36.  Tab X003X004 International Accessorials    Row 77 appears to be a duplicate of Row 76.    A.36.  Removed as recommended.     

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  Q.37.  Declared valued assessorial should have a minimum.    A.37.  Created minimum charge as reflected by orange block within Attachment 2, CLIN Matrix.    Q.38.  Request a handling fee/CLIN for unforeseen fees or circumstances to protect the carrier from loss.    A.38.  Risks such as unforeseen fees or circumstances should be built in to offerors' proposed allinclusive rate  per pound.    Q.39.  Request additional CLINs for Saturday pickup/delivery for packages 151300 lbs. This weight range falls  under a different service, which is priced differently. Please reference current WWX accessorial.    A.39.  Incorporated "Saturday pickup and delivery" accessorials as recommended.    Q.40.  Domestic Services Tabs  Request that domestic tab services be renamed Next Day Early Morning Next Day Morning, Next Day  Afternoon, 2nd Business Day, 3rd Business Day etc. to avoid use of intellectual property.    A.40.  The titles of the tabs/CLINs were derived based on the need to identify the difference between domestic  or international, coupled with the time deadline for delivery.    Q.41.  Please provide the historical FY13 spend of DOMEX and WWX5.    A.42.  DOMEX: $82M; WWX: $87M    Q.43.  Recommend the opportunity for a carrier to charge the following accessorials: oversize, large Package  surcharge and overmax.     A.43.   Added large package surcharge as recommended.  Any fees anticipated associated with Overmax shall  be reflected in the 151300 lb rate.    Q.44.  What are the estimated volumes based off of?       

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  A.44.  The estimated volume data in the CLIN Matrix is based on FY13 data (1 Oct 1230 Sep 13).  Volumes  estimates were also calculated based on certain assumptions (e.g. drawdown in theater).    Q.45.  Will USTC provide an excel spreadsheet that allows the carriers to fill in one LVSL rate and based on the  High Volume Shipping Location Discount percentage, the HVSL spreadsheet can populate accordingly  based on this percentage? Is it AQ's plan to provide that spreadsheet as part of the final RFP?     A.45.  Yes, the final Attachment 2, CLIN Matrix will incorporate this function to auto populate the HVSL rates  based on the offeror's proposed percentage.    Q.46.  Can you add a clarification on Small Package  Aggregate and Large Package  Aggregate?    A.46.  This contract does not incorporate small/large package size categories for aggregate shipments.    Q.47.  Cyber Security ­ Will USTC be deleting section 5 of Information Assurance and replace it with  DFARS252.2047012 Safeguarding of Unclassified Controlled Technical Information?  If the intention is  not to replace this section, can you specify the types of information the government will be transmitting  to contractors that are considered DOD nonpublic information?     A.47.  USTC has incorporated clause 252.2047012 in the solicitation, and we will maintain Paragraph 5,  Information Assurance in the PWS.  Examples of information considered DOD nonpublic information  includes, but is not limited to, shipment frequencies, volumes, schedules, and types of cargo.    Q.48.   1.1.2.6 ­ Refusal by consignee ­ Would USTC consider adding language that states "per the carriers  terms and conditions in their rate and service guide" ?    A.48.  Incorporated language stating returns will be made at the consignor's expense to accommodate  commercial practice.     Q.49.  1.1.2.7.1 ­ GSR ­ Would USTC consider adding language that states "per the carriers terms and  conditions in their rate and service guide" ?     A.49.  Please see response to question Q.8.    Q.50.  FMS or Foreign Military Sales ­ Who is responsible for the clearance at Sofa and NonSofa countries? 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  NonSOFA Countries:  Is the US Embassy responsible to clear?  Who is liable for the fees related to the  exoneration process?  Is all program supported by appointed brokers selected by the US Embassy?   SOFA Countries: Host nation requirement not aligned with DTR.  Brokers process implemented by US  Embassy that is putting a constraint on door to door requirement.     A.50.  The solicitation requires the carriers to facilitate all clearances.  It does not delineate SOFA and non SOFA countries' clearance procedures.      Q.51.  Attachment 2 CLIN Matrix/Appendix 6.6 TDS Theaters  There are countries in the CLIN Matrix that do not appear in Appendix 6.6 TDS Theaters such as Israel,  Kyrgyzstan, Oman, Ethiopia, and Djibouti.    A.51.  These countries were pulled out of Appendix 6.6 TDS Theaters based to higher cost to operate;  therefore, they are shown as separate SLINs in the CLIN Matrix.    Additional Questions as of 27 Mar 2014    Q.52.  When will Industry Day be held?    A.52.  As this is a mature requirement, we do not anticipate hosting an industry day, as this is typical for new  requirements when the market is undetermined.  If there are specific questions, offerors can submit  them to the Contracting Officer for review and posting to all interested parties.    Q.53.  Question 4 from Market Research Questions and Answers  Mandating USD is not realistic. Request that the currency be determined between the requestor and the  carrier.     A.53.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.54.  Question 35 from Market Research Questions and Answers  On past Contracts, the carrier has been able to either enter an HVSL % and have the sheets be auto  populated or fill it in themselves. Request this option be continued. An auto populated rate sheet may  be accurate based upon rounding and it is imperative that the carrier be able to invoice the rate that is  quoted.    A.54.  A formula has been input into Attachment 2, CLIN Matrix to autopopulate the HVSL % discount.   Offerors are also permitted to manually input rates to account for rounding.     

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014  Q.55.  Question 40 from Market Research Questions and Answers  In DOMEX, the delivery time was not mandated, the carriers delivered based upon their service guide  delivery commitments for a specific zip code; mandating a delivery time is an unrealistic expectation.  Express carriers are not in the position to develop a new service to meet the needs of the Government.  Request the CLINs be labeled a generic time/day Next Day Early Morning, Next Day Morning, etc. and  allow the carrier to use their existing network and published delivery times.    A.55.  Added the following language in PWS para 1.2.2.1: "For nextday service, delivery is by 0800 (CLINs X005  and X010), 1030 (CLINs X006 and X011), and 1500 (CLINs X007 and X012) to most areas.  Delivery to  rural areas within each service level will be in accordance with each carrier's commercial service guide."    Q.56.  Request 1.2.11 mirror the language in 1.1.11. Specifically, The shipper must provide a secure  communication channel in which the shipping device can communicate to the carrier.  The  communication channel must be a highspeed connection using DSL, cable, or fiber optic (FiOS)  providers.  Shippers may also connect the shipping hardware to their existing network in order to  manage communications to and from the shipping device.  In the event that the shipping device is  connected through an existing military network, the shipper is obligated to secure the hardware using  his or her own network security rules and guidelines.  Shipper may install any necessary security or anti virus software on the hardware to preserve the integrity of the military network.  Shipper will be  responsible to perform security scans, implementing required windows updates, and security patches.    A.56.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.57.  Request 1.2.13 mirror the language in 1.1.13.3 specifically 1.1.13.2.  Selection of contractors/carriers to  support Defense Transportation System requirements will utilize a best value approach based on  determining factors such as quality of service, past performance, cost/price, claims experience, ability to  perform service within stated requirements, and carrier commitment of transportation assets to  readiness support. Under the best value approach, cost is not the only factor in carrier selection. Past  performance factors include, but are not limited to, ontime pickup and delivery percentage, lost or  damaged cargo percentage, number of claims, and provider availability. Service factors include, but are  not limited to, carrier ability to respond, routing, and ability to provide in transit visibility and  commitment of transportation assets to readiness support.     A.57.  Incorporated as recommended.    Q.58.  Request 1.2.2.3 mirror 1.1.2.5 especially regarding The cost of any further disposition, or additional  deliveries requested by the shipper, will be the responsibility of the shipper.    A.58.  Incorporated as recommended.   

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014    Q.59.  1.2.14. Damage or Loss.    The Warsaw Convention liability of $9.07 per lb. would apply to international shipments. What is the  carrier's liability for domestic shipments if declared value is not offered?  If declared value is not offered  and a shipper claims it by mistake and the package is damaged, what are the consequences? Is the  carrier liable?    A.60.  Will require domestic shipments' damage/loss be handled in accordance with respective carrier  commercial guides.  Revised paragraph 1.2.14. "Damage or Loss" to: "The contractor is liable for damage  and loss in accordance with their Commercial Shipping Guide.  All damaged shipments remain the  property of the US Government."    Q.61  Service Delivery Summary  Please explain Deliver within Contractorstated transit time and Delivered within required service level  standard transit time.    A.61  Within the international segment (PWS para 1.1.1), offerors are permitted to propose their own unique  transit times; performance will be evaluated based on the offeror's ability to meet the transit times 95%  of the time.  For the domestic segment (PWS para 1.2.1), offerors must adhere to the service level  standards specified in the contract (i.e. next day 0800, next day 1030, next day 1500, second day and  third day); performance will be evaluated based on the offeror's ability to meet the service level  standards 95% of the time.    Q.62  4.2.4 Additional Documentation: Commercially, this is not provided to other parties outside of the  immediate shipper. Having a master list of all account numbers is not a fraud prevention or cyber  security best practice. A mutually agreed upon data field list could be provided, though it should not  include the account number.    A.62  The account information requested will be reviewed by personnel in the shipper's chain of command.   This requirement has been requested by the Services as it will prevent the buildup of inactive accounts,  and provide the Government a clearer picture of active accounts, thus facilitating Transportation Officer  management of shipping accounts on their respective installations.    Q.63  1.1.13.1 Request mirror 1.2.13 No further purchase order documents, call order, delivery order, task  order or blanket purchase agreements, etc. are required during the ordering process.    Suggested language to address Call Orders: Although not required, if a Call Order is needed for internal  purposes (to set up the Line Of Accounting, allocate the funding, etc.) and to have the Call Order  number appear on the carrier's invoices, then please refer to Appendix 6.12 Call Order Format.  Please  note TDS Carriers are not required to agree to terms or conditions beyond those agreed to in the TDS  Contract. A sample document is attached. 

Solicitation HTC71114RC001  Questions and Answers, as of 8 April 2014    A.63  Call Orders are not applicable to Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract ­ they are utilized  under Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA's) (e.g. DOMEX).  Will include the following language in both  1.1.13.1 and 1.2.13.1: "No further purchase order documents, delivery order, task order or blanket  purchase agreements, etc. are required during the ordering process."     

Total Delivery Services (TDS) Solicitation Questions and Answers 
  Q.64  The TDS has a CRR in the PWS of 3% fee for Intl and 1% for the Domestic.  Will the carriers still be  required to pay the GSA .75% on the Domestic portion as was done in the past?    A.64  No.  As this is a separately procured USTRANSCOM contract, TDS carriers will not pay a fee to GSA.   

