
Title:      Performance of companion diagnostics in real-world settings: comparison of FDA-approved   immunohistochemistry tests and
fluorescence in situ hybridization technology tests in   predicting response to trastuzumab

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Parts 12.6 and 13.  This
announcement constitutes the only solicitation and a written solicitation will not be issued.  This combined synopsis/solicitation; NAICS code
622110, General Medical and Surgical Hospitals as RFQ #1090414 is to notify contractors that the government intends to award a Firm Fixed-Price
Contract in accordance with FAR Part 13.106 for the following scope of work under simplified acquisition procedures.  This requirement is
unrestricted.  Prospective offerors are responsible for downloading the solicitation and any amendments.  It is the offeror's responsibility to
monitor the FedBizOpps website for the release of any amendments to this RFQ.

Purpose:

The purpose of this project is to assess the clinical outcomes associated with various FDA-approved HER2 tests in patients diagnosed with breast
cancer using a combination of existing electronic health system databases, administrative, pathology results, pharmacy databases, tumor
registries, and clinical outcome databases.  It is necessary to combine data from multiple data sources, such as administrative claims,
pathology reports, and medical records to examine utilization and clinical validity of gene- or molecular-based tests (AHRQ 2008).  By combining
existing electronic health system databases using multiple administrative and outcome databases, this project provides a framework of assessing
the postmarket performance of genetic testing in terms of measurable clinical outcomes and adverse events.  Data from this project will
contribute towards building an evidence base that supports regulatory science on emerging genomics technologies in the real-world settings.

Background:

While emerging genetic- and molecular-based technologies are being developed to better predict patients’ responses to targeted therapy, little
is known about the real world performance of these “Personalized Medicine” products.

A diagnostic test that determines which breast tumors overexpress the human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2) is used to predict a
better response to the medication, trastuzumab.  The HER2 gene is amplified (i.e., gene copy number greater than 2 per FDA guidelines) and/or
the HER2 protein is overexpressed (i.e., cell membrane has excess of HER2 protein molecules compared to normal cells) in approximately 18 to 20
per cent of breast cancer cases.  Currently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved two types of tests for HER2 along with the
drug (as a “companion diagnostic”) so that clinicians can better target patients’ treatment.  These are (i) immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based
test (e.g., DAKO HercepTest; Ventana Pathway), which measures production of HER2 protein by the tumor; (ii) in situ hybridization (ISH) test
that includes fluorescence (e.g., Vysis PathVysion; Ventana INFORM HER2 probe)  and bright-field ISH methods (SPOT-Light ® HER2 CISH) that
quantifies the number of copies of the HER2 gene in tumor cells.

To date, published reports comparing the accuracy of the IHC and ISH technology in predicting response to trastuzumab are based on analytical
validity studies and are inconsistent (Barlett 2001, Wolff 2007).  The ‘real world’ performance of HER2 testing, in incident breast cancer cases
in United States, in terms of clinical outcomes (e.g., overall survival) and adverse events (e.g., cardiotoxicity), is unclear.  This evaluation
is necessary for our considerations of safety and effectiveness of companion diagnostics in the postmarket setting.

FDA is seeking electronic health care records with a comprehensive collection of patients characteristics; centralized tumor registry including
information on all diagnosed cancers and expression of estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor; pathology database including type, date and
laboratory associated with HER2 testing; pharmacy database with details on trastuzumab use,  all prescriptions, data of prescriptions and unique
codes using standard nomenclature for drug identification; clinical outcomes database including stage and grade of breast cancer at diagnosis,
lymph node involvement, tumor size; surgical procedures database including details of the surgery, preoperative characteristics, surgical
outcomes including complications and secondary surgeries; and, access to patient charts.  Of particular interest is information on the IHC,
FISH, and chromogenic ISH (CISH) testing within a defined study population with known uptake, use, and pattern of testing utilization of the
various FDA- approved HER2 testing.

Performance Work Statement:

A) Objective:

To compare the performance of IHC, FISH and CISH tests in predicting response trastuzumab in a cohort of patients in healthcare settings in the
United States.  The clinicopathologic features, progression, and survival in the various breast cancer subtypes will be compared among women who
are tested for HER2 status by IHC, FISH, and CISH tests.  The pattern of trastuzumab use for eligible patients as defined by the various HER2
tests as well as negative and indeterminate results will be determined.

B) Scope of Work:

Independently and not as agents of the Government, the contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel, material, services, facilities, and
otherwise do all things necessary for or incident to the performance of the work described below:

The contractor shall create a combination of electronic health records from the data sources as listed in Background for the purposes of
addressing the Study Objective and provide quality control measures that verify the completeness and reliability of the data elements.

The contractor shall determine what information and formatting is necessary to comply with HIPAA and other federal regulations related to the
collection of identifying information and genetic information.  The contractor will also obtain the necessary Institutional Review Board
waivers/consents and HIPAA waivers/consents to achieve the study objectives.

The contractor shall perform chart abstraction for items/variables necessary to address the Study Objective.

The contractor shall provide maintenance of the requested combination of electronic health records over the course of the contract.

The contractor shall provide technical documentation of the methodology used to merge the electronic health records.

The contractor shall provide a dataset of the identified data elements to FDA Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) and its partners
for data analyses.

The contractor shall perform all analyses requested in the data collected to address the objectives and perform any complementary analyses
needed to create publishable manuscripts and to address any questions that arise during the manuscript review process.

C)  Tasks:

   1. The contractor shall attend regularly scheduled meetings (in person or by phone) with the FDA.
   2. The contractor shall develop an electronic health records database containing information necessary to evaluate and compare the performance
      of various HER2 tests in terms of clinical outcomes, including disease progression and survival.
   3. The contractor shall ensure that all legal issues related to collecting and assessing patient-related data, including genetic information
      are addressed.
   4. The contractor shall ensure that the security and encryption requirements are adequate to protect the patient-level data.
   5. The contractor shall provide quarterly reports on the status of the project.
   6. The contractor shall perform data validation to ensure that the data is accurate as well as perform chart review to collect specific
      details about  HER2 testing results, stage and grade of breast cancer and trastuzumab use.
   7. The contractor shall work with FDA to determine the necessary statistical analyses.
   8. The contractor shall perform all the analyses needed to generate the manuscripts as well as address any reviewer concerns after submission
      to peer-reviewed journals.
   9. The contractor shall provide tables detailing the analyses performed as well as provide the programming code if necessary to better
      understand the assumptions used to yield the results.
  10. At the conclusion of the contract, a publishable manuscript should be generated that answers the aforementioned research questions.

Period of Performance:  The contract performance period shall not exceed two (2) years.

Government-Furnished Property and Government-Furnished Information
    • No Government-furnished property (GFP) and Government-furnished information (GFI) will be provided.

Place of Performance
    • The work shall be conducted at the contractor’s location.

Deliverables:

The contractor(s) shall:

   1. Work interactively with FDA to create the combined dataset with importation of relevant information from an electronic medical record (EMR)
      system, tumor registry, pathology database, pharmacy database, and clinical outcomes database.  They must have an identified EMR and have
      an agreement to utilize this information to create this combined dataset.
   2. Perform validation checks of the completeness and reliability of the data the electronic health records.
   3. Collect from the EMR or patient charts additional data needed to understand reasons for either missing data or inaccuracies for HER2
      testing, stage and grade of the disease and trastuzumab use.
   4. Perform analyses and associated tables that answer the aforementioned research questions regarding the performance of HER2 testing in terms
      of disease progression and survival.
   5. Provide analysis programming codes used to generate results if necessary to better understand the results.
   6. Provide access to the databases if necessary to better understand the results.
   7. Provide quarterly reports on the status of the project.
   8. Work collaboratively to produce a manuscript publishable in peer-reviewed journals.  Discussion on the authorship of the manuscripts will
      be conducted between the FDA investigators, its partners, and the contractor.

Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

Technical documentation that the methodology used to merge the electronic health records is in accordance with pre-specified requirements

   1. Quarterly reports
   2. Final protocol for the registry
   3. Timeliness in meeting deliverable dates
   4. Completing the project within the projected cost
   5. Analysis of the registry data to answer proposed questions
   6. Generation of publishable manuscript in a timely manner


References

Bartlett JM, Going JJ, Mallon EA, Watters AD, Reeves JR, Stanton P et al. Evaluating HER2 amplification and overexpression in breast cancer. J
Pathol 2001; 195(4):422-428.

DeStefano F, Whitehead N, Lux L, Lohr K: Infrastructure To Monitor Utilization and Outcomes of Gene-Based Applications: An Assessment. Prepared
by RTI International DEcIDE Center under Contract No. HSA290220050036I. AHRQ Publication No. 08-EHC012. Agency For Healthcare Research And
Quality, MD, USA (2008).

Wolff AC, Hammond ME, Schwartz JN, Hagerty KL, Allred DC, Cote RJ et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists
guideline recommendations for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 testing in breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007; 25(1):118-145.

Technical Evaluation Elements:

1.  The Offeror shall demonstrate an understanding of the requirement.

2.  The Offeror shall demonstrate their technical approach.
    ▪ Does the offeror have access to data needed to perform the research?
    ▪ Does the offeror have personnel with the technical and clinical expertise to perform the research?
    ▪ Does the offeror have a mechanism for making periodic progress evaluations of the project?

3.  The Offeror shall demonstrate their relevant experience.

4.  Past Performance

The Government reserves the right to award a contract without discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that the initial offer(s) is/are
providing the Best Value and discussions are not necessary.

The Government is more concerned with obtaining performance capability superiority rather than lowest overall cost.  However, the Government
will not make an award at a significantly higher overall cost to the Government to achieve only slightly superior performance.  Overall cost to
the Government may become the ultimate determining factor for award of a contract as quotations become more equal based on the other factors.

CCR: Vendors must be registered in the Central Contractor Register (CCR) prior to the award of a contract.  You may register by going to
http://www.ccr.gov.  You will need your Duns & Bradstreet number and banking information.

QUOTATIONS DUE: All quotations are due, via email to: Christopher.Cunningham@fda.hhs.gov no later than 12:00pm, EST on Tuesday September 6,
2011.

ANTICIPATED AWARD DATE: The anticipated award date is on or about September 9, 2011, however, all dates in this announcement are subject to
change.

PROVISIONS and CLAUSES: The provision at FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors Commercial Items.  FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and
Certifications Commercial Items, FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions, Commercial Items, FAR 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions
Required to Implement Statues or Executive Orders, Commercial Items,  FAR 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor
Registration.  Clauses and provisions are incorporated by reference and apply to this acquisition.  Responses to this notice must be sent via
email to Christopher.Cunningham@fda.hhs.gov No Phone Calls Will Be Accepted.
