PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)

FOR 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) SUPPORT SERVICES

AT 

DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA) INFORMATION OPERATIONS AT TOBYHANNA, PA

INTRODUCTION

The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) is a United States (U.S.) Department of Defense (DoD) agency that provides worldwide logistics support for the missions of the Military Departments and the Unified Combatant Commands under conditions of peace and war.  

DLA Information Operations at Tobyhanna, PA has a requirement for a Contractor to provide IT support services for on-site hardware, software, and technical support for approximately 50 employees to augment existing Government IT support personnel. The objective is to ensure that all IT equipment, to include network servers/hardware, workstations, printers, portable computers, and other miscellaneous IT equipment are functioning at all times to support mission requirements. 

Installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting support shall be required for approximately 50 existing workstations/laptops, 100 printers, and 150 peripheral and IT related pieces of equipment to include CD/DVD ROM reader /writers, controllers, antennas, Ethernet cards, hubs, modems, media converters, monitors, keyboards, print servers, plotters, scanners, wedges, zip drives, wireless bridges, RF network controllers, RF access points, RF handheld units, RF vehicle-mounted units, digital cameras, and LCD Boards.   

Work environment is in typical office settings and multiple distribution warehouse production buildings.  Work may be dirty in nature for warehouses with limited environmental controls for temperature and humidity.  Geographical area for work to be completed covers 5 buildings.  

General Conditions and Requirements

This Section provides general information relating to the conditions of operation and general requirements relating to the IT support services performed by DLA Information Operations at Tobyhanna, PA.

SCOPE OF WORK

The Contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, supplies, facilities, transportation, tools, materials, supervision, and other items/services (other than those designated as Government-furnished per Section 4, Government-Furnished Property (GFP), Systems, Training and Support Services) necessary to perform IT Support Services as defined in this PWS.

IT Support required includes On Site support for problem reporting and resolution for end users and the overall computing environment.  All work and trouble requests shall be identified via the designated Trouble Ticket Tracking System.  The Contractor shall be responsible for communication via written trouble ticket or work order for repairs, installations, troubleshooting, and for ensuring a one (1) hour response time for priority one (1) (critical/immediate) problems; a three (3) hour response time for priority two (2) (high) problems; a 24 hour response time for priority three (3) (medium) problems; and a 72 hour response time for priority four (4) (low) problems.  Completed trouble tickets and work orders shall be closed out in the Trouble Ticket Tracking System within twenty four (24) hours after completion of work.   

This is a non-personal services contract to provide information technology support services.  The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the contract service providers performing the services herein.  Such contract service providers shall be accountable solely to the Contractor who, in turn, is responsible to the Government.  The Government and the Contractor understand that the services to be provided under this contract by the Contractor are non-personal services and that no employer-employee relationship exists between the Government and the Contractor.  The Government may provide technical direction which will assist the Contractor in accomplishing the PWS; however, the Government will not control the methods used by the Contractor to perform the service requirements set forth in the PWS.

General Operating Conditions

This Section provides general information relating to the conditions of operation and general requirements relating to the IT support services performed by DLA Information Operations at Tobyhanna, PA.

Place of Performance

Work will be accomplished primarily for DLA Distribution Tobyhanna, PA.

period of performance

The period of performance for this contract action will be for a one (1) year base period with two (2) one-year option periods.  

Federal Holidays

Federal holidays generally observed by government personnel include:





In the event an Executive Order issued by the President of the United States declares Agencies of the Federal Government closed for a regularly scheduled workday, the Contracting Officer (KO) or designee will determine and advise the contractor on whether services are required for that day.

Current Duty Hours and Access to the Host Installation 

The Contractor shall perform services required under this PWS Monday through Friday except Federal holidays and base closures.  The schedule is as follows:

End User support core hours are 0700-1630 Monday through Friday.

The Contractor shall provide occasional on-call support for End User support.  Estimated on-call End User support will average 200 hours per year. 

Due to changing traffic requirements brought on by construction, changing missions, and security concerns within the host installation, access to the host installation is subject to change, sometimes with little or no warning.  Inbound and outbound traffic restrictions exist.

personnel qualifications and certifications

Contractor personnel must be proficient in reading and capable of communicating effectively in English.

The Contractor shall implement a continuing recruiting program such that the Contractor can respond to urgent and phased surge and mobilization requirements.  Personnel assigned to or utilized by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall, as a minimum, meet the experience, educational, or other background requirements set forth below and shall be fully capable of performing in an efficient, reliable, and professional manner.  If the KO or designee questions the qualifications or competence of any person performing under the contract, the burden of proof that the person is qualified as prescribed herein shall be upon the Contractor.

The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and certifications and for complying with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws.  The Contractor shall maintain updated copies of any applicable licenses and certifications for all employees and make them available to the Government upon request.

Contractor employees that operate motor vehicles to include light and medium trucks and MHE, shall maintain a valid state driver’s license with all class and commodity endorsements required by Public Law 99-570 and state law for the type of vehicle operated.

End User Skills:



Ability to troubleshoot hardware and software problems related to desktop computers, Print servers, scanners, printers, PDAs (Blackberries), desktop video/video teleconference systems, and peripherals (zip drives, external zips, scanners, etc.).

Network+ certification or any approved certification demonstrating working knowledge and understanding of Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) networked environment.

Security+ certification or any approved certification demonstrating working knowledge and understanding of applying basic security principles to the computing environment (CE).

Certified knowledge of Microsoft Windows desktop operating systems and knowledge of applications, System Management Software, Microsoft’s Active Directory (AD) as related to integration of desktop systems into AD, and all aspects of Windows security to include any subsequent software releases/upgrades.

Ability to provide hardware maintenance such as board replacement, cable switching, communications assistance, and hardware installation and replacement.

Knowledge of industry standard Incident Ticket Tracking systems for inputting incident tickets and creating work orders.

Demonstrated knowledge and accomplishment in analyzing, diagnosing and recommending solutions for hardware and software problems.

Knowledge of IBM’s Customer Information Control System (CICS) and Virtual Telecommunications Access Method Printer Support System (VPS) to restart printers and printer output.

In depth understanding of IBM’s NetView to restart 3270 terminal emulation accessing TSO (Time Sharing Option) and CICS (Customer Information Control System).

Demonstrated ability with installation, configuration, and the ability to learn DLA-unique applications and programs.

Demonstrated understanding of Radio Frequency (RF) hardware and infrastructure and the ability to perform minor repairs or configurations.

Ability to troubleshoot Microsoft products including, but not limited to, Windows, Office; including all aspects of Windows security and Microsoft desktop products

Understanding and knowledge of Windows 7 and MS Office; to include any subsequent releases/upgrades.

Expertise to install and support workstation hardware and software, to include depot-unique items.

SecuritY



The Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) dated 27 August 2004 has established criteria for contractors who require a Common Access Card (CAC) for either physical access to a U.S. Government controlled installation or access to government information technology (IT) systems.  The Government requires Personnel Security Investigations (PSI) to establish that applicants or incumbents either employed by the Government or working for the Government under contract are suitable for the job and/or are eligible for a public trust position.  These positions have been designated as IT Level II.  IT-II positions require favorable adjudication of a National Agency Check with Local Agency Check and Credit Checks (NACLC).  The Contractor shall adhere to the following procedures for NACLAC:



Each Contractor employee shall complete a SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions, using the Electronic Questionnaire for Investigative Processing (e-QIP) located on the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) website, .

The Contractor shall submit the certification and release signature pages of the SF 86 and two fingerprint cards (FBI Form FD 258) to the Contracting Officer or designee who will forward them to the DLA Intelligence Security Office.

All personnel employed by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, or any representative of the Contractor entering a U.S. Government installation, shall abide by all security regulations and policies of the installation including access badges, parking, access to controlled or restricted areas, classified information, controlled unclassified information, data and IT resources.

DLA reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interests of the Government, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status. DLA also reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee for misconduct, security violations, or performance reasons. The reason for removal shall be fully documented in writing by the Contracting Officer. When and if such removal occurs, the contractor shall assign qualified personnel to any vacancy(s) thus created within 10 working days. This action does not relieve the contractor from total performance of the contract tasks specified herein.

Contractor shall return all government issued identification, access badges, and vehicle passes to the KO or designee upon termination of service.

The provisions outlined above apply to the prime contractor and any subcontractors the prime contractor may employ during the course of this contract. No contractor personnel performing sensitive duties shall be allowed to commence work on this effort until his or her trustworthiness has been favorably adjudicated.

Not later than 15 calendar days prior to contract full performance start date, the Contractor shall provide the KO or designee a roster of all key personnel, to include those requiring access to restricted or controlled access areas.  The roster shall include each employee’s full name, Social Security number, identification card number (if assigned), branch or section (if applicable), and security clearance (level of clearance and last investigation date, if applicable).  The Contractor shall provide additions to rosters and an updated roster to the KO or designee at least five working days prior to the date of required access.  The Contractor shall make all modifications to the rosters and provide an update to the KO or designee within 12 hours for employees whose employment has been terminated and for employees who no longer require access to restricted or controlled access areas.

DoD Common Access Card (CAC)/Access Identification Badge (ID Badge)/Electronic Key Card

Every Contractor employee shall obtain and possess a DoD Common Access Card (CAC) and an Access ID Badge as required.  Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job the Contractor shall submit to the KO or designee a request for the DoD CAC and ID Badge. 



The Contractor shall safeguard CAC and ID Badges furnished to them.  Contractor employees shall not share CAC and ID Badges.  Each Contractor employee shall wear the ID Badge conspicuously on his or her outer clothing above the waist at all times while working on the installation.  Personnel may be challenged and removed from the work area or denied access to the host installation if the ID Badge is not worn.  



In the event that a Contractor employee damages or loses his or her CAC and ID Badge, the Contractor shall report the lost or damaged CAC and ID Badge within two (2) working hours of damage or loss to the KO or designee who will arrange for a replacement CAC or ID Badge.  The Government will issue the Contractor employee a temporary ID Badge to be used for an eight to ten (8-10) working day waiting period until a new permanent ID Badge is issued.  The Contractor shall return all government-furnished CAC or ID Badges to the Government either within one (1) working day of the completion of the contract or upon termination of an individual’s employment, whichever comes first.  Contractor personnel failing to return their Government CAC or ID Badge are subject to criminal charges under USC Title 18, Chapter 1, Section 499 and 701.



The KO or designee will provide and maintain electronic key cards for the security access system.  The electronic key card allows access to specific controlled areas of the facilities.  The KO or designee will approve and provide the electronic key cards to the Contractor for access to the facilities.

Information System Security

Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job and the approval for temporary AIS access pending final adjudication, but not less than fourteen (14) working days prior to the employee’s start date, the Contractor shall request Information Technology (IT) eligibility for an employee requiring access and passwords to the government-furnished data systems.  All positions involving computer activities require a minimum IT II category eligibility.  The Contractor shall submit a Contractor Investigative Request (CIR) and a DD Form 2875 for temporary IT II eligibility, with final IT II eligibility contingent upon receiving a favorably adjudicated background investigation.   



All Contractor personnel provided with access to government-furnished computers and systems shall observe local AIS security policies and procedures as provided by the KO or designee.  The Contractor shall notify the KO or designee within 12 hours when, for reasons of personnel resignation, reassignment, termination, or completion of portions of the contract, Contractor personnel no longer require access to government systems.



The Contractor shall observe all copyright agreements.  In the interest of protecting government systems from computer viruses, the Contractor shall not use public domain software nor shall Contractor personnel download software from public bulletin boards or Internet websites.  The Contractor shall use only commercial off-the-shelf (COTS), Contractor-developed, or government-furnished software in performance of the contract requirements.  Should the introduction of a computer virus or malicious destruction of computer software, stored information, or hardware result from the use of public domain software or from software taken from a public bulletin board or Internet website, the Contractor shall be required to repair the damage and incur all costs at no expense to the Government and without impact on delivery schedules.

Contact of a Suspicious Nature

Contractor personnel who have been contacted under suspicious circumstances shall report that contact immediately, either verbally or in writing, to their supervisor who shall report it within two (2) hours to the KO or designee for action.  Key contacts for reporting purposes are defined as:



Contact with an individual (regardless of nationality) that suggests to the Contractor employee that an intelligence gathering or terrorist organization may have targeted him or her for possible intelligence exploitation.

A request by anyone (regardless of nationality) for illegal or unauthorized access to classified or unclassified sensitive information.

Contact with a known or suspected intelligence officer from any country.

Contact with a foreign diplomatic establishment, whether in the U.S. or abroad, for personal or official reasons.  Certain Contractor personnel in positions designated as “sensitive” by the Government may also be required to inform their chain of command in advance of the nature and reason for contacting a foreign diplomatic establishment or travel to countries on the State Department list whose interests may be adverse to the United States.



Additionally, Contractor personnel who have information about activities pertaining to espionage, terrorism, unauthorized technology transfer, sabotage, sedition, subversion, spying, treason, unauthorized release of classified or unclassified controlled information, or unauthorized intrusions into automated information systems shall report that information immediately to the KO or designee for action.  

Safeguarding Information

The Contractor shall not allow access or disclosure of classified information or information regarding the operations of DLA Distribution to any government agency, non-government agency, or individual unless specifically authorized by the KO or designee.  The Contractor shall provide documents and files requested by such parties to the KO or designee within one hour of receipt of the authorized request.  All files are the property of the Government and the Contractor shall turn all files over to the KO or designee at the completion or termination of this contract. 



The Contractor may be required to access data and information that is proprietary to a government agency or contractor or that is of such nature that its dissemination and use other than as specified in this contract would be adverse to the interests of the Government or others.  The Contractor and its personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained under performance of this contract except to government personnel who are authorized to receive the information or upon written approval of the KO or designee.  The Contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend other than as specified in this contract.



Disclosure of information regarding operations and services of DLA Distribution to persons not entitled to receive it, or failure to safeguard any classified information that may come into the Contractor’s control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the Contractor, its agent, or its employees to criminal liability under USC Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 37, Espionage and Censorship, Sections 793, Gathering, Transmitting or Losing Defense Information, and Section 798, Disclosure of Classified Information.  Neither the Contractor nor its employees shall disclose or cause to be disseminated any information concerning the operations of the activity which could result in, or increase the likelihood of, the possibility of a breach of the Distribution Center’s security or interrupt the continuity of the Center’s operation.

Potential Operational Constraints

Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) may affect access to the host installations and Distribution Center.  The FPCON is established by the host installation or higher national command authorities, and the Installation Commander is responsible for implementing the proper response to progressive levels of terrorist threats.  FPCONs are normally displayed at most entrance gates, building entrances and office entrances.  The Contractor shall adhere to and operate IAW any restrictions imposed as a result of a FPCON. Measures implemented under the various levels of terrorist threat may impact the Contractor’s normal operational approach to distribution services.  The Contractor shall ensure that distribution services are sustained during heightened security measures.  

Environmental, safety, and occupational health (esoh)

The Contractor shall formulate and maintain a written safety and health plan and make available to the Government upon request.  The written plan shall include the details of the Contractor’s responsibilities, method of program implementation, and how hazards and deficiencies shall be identified and corrected.  It shall detail Contractor personnel responsibilities for:  protection of Government property and safety of others, personnel responsibilities for reporting all mishaps, and establish procedures for reporting to correcting unsafe conditions, hazards, or practices.  The Contractor shall have a central POC for safety and health related issues.  The POC shall be identified in writing to the KO or designee.

The Contractor shall ensure employees have safety education when engaged in activities involving Government facilities, personnel, or equipment.

The Contractor shall notify the KO or designee immediately after the occurrence of all accidents and incidents resulting in either personal injury, loss of life, impact to the environment or property damage to a government facility or equipment.  The Contractor shall submit a completed copy of DLA Form 1591 and supplemental information within four (4) working days of the accident or incidents.

The Contractor shall require their personnel to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) (i.e. safety shoes or safety boots, hearing protection, eye protection, gloves, safety harnesses) during the performance of this contract in accordance with OSHA standards.  The Government will not be responsible for furnishing or paying for the cost of PPE.

The Contractor shall comply with all federal, state, and local environmental laws to include but not limited to Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Safe Water Drinking Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), and Federal Facilities Compliance Act (FFCA).

Preparedness Exercises

As directed by the KO or designee, the Contractor shall participate in preparedness exercises relating to security disaster preparedness and response, wartime response, and emergency and environmental and similar preparedness exercises.  

The Contractor shall participate in emergency and recall notification and personnel accountability exercises.  The Contractor shall establish emergency notification and recall and personnel accountability procedures in accordance with DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, and test those procedures twice a year when directed by the KO or designee.  During the exercise, the Contractor shall determine the status and whereabouts of assigned personnel, report the status of each Contractor employee to the KO or designee within established timelines, and continue to report periodic status until further direction by the KO or designee.  The Contractor shall follow their personnel accountability procedures in the event of a real emergency as directed by the KO or designee. 

2.7     Certification and Acceptance

The KO or designee is designated as the point of final inspection and acceptance by the Government of all items and services required by the contract.  

Definitions and Acronyms

DoD Dictionary

The DoD Dictionary of definitions and terms is available on the Internet at: .



Government-Furnished Property (GFP), systems, EQUIPMENT, training and support Services

General Information

The Government will provide access to resources and information to include Government transactional data systems required in the performance of this PWS.

The Government will furnish training for Contractor personnel on the Government data systems to be used in performance of this PWS.  

C.  The Government will provide on-site office space with furniture, to include, but not limited to, 

      desktop computer and network printer, office supplies and desk telephone.  This office space will be 

      located at DLA Distribution Tobyhanna, PA within building 1 Bay 5.



D.  At no cost to the Contractor, the Government will furnish the services to be used exclusively to      

      perform the requirements of this contract that include custodial services, refuse and recycling 

      collection, government forms, emergency medical services, police and fire protection, telephone and 

      utilities.



E.  The Government will provide all materials; equipment or supplies (i.e. lift equipment, tools and parts) 

      that contractor personnel will need to perform this requirement at DLA Information Operations at 

      Tobyhanna, PA. 



Contractor RESPONSIBILITY FOR GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT and training

Contractor-Furnished Training

The Contractor shall provide training (not designated as Government furnished) which may be required for Contractor personnel to comply with the contract requirements.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all costs associated with this training.  The Contractor shall maintain copies of training records, designation letters and certificates on site and make them available for the KO or designee to review upon request.  The training records shall include, at a minimum, the name of the employee, the name of the course, the source of the training, a description of the training provided and the date the employee successfully completed the training.  The Contractor shall furnish the following training:



INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IA) & COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT (CE) TRAINING.  Contractor personnel performing tasks associated with this PWS that will be performing an IA function shall be trained and certified in accordance with DoD Directive 8570.1 and DoD 8570.1M.  IA functions are defined in chapters 3 and 4 of the DoD 8570.1M.  Contractor personnel shall be certified at the appropriate IAT Level in accordance with their designated function (labor category) as demonstrated by possessing one (1) of the authorized certifications listed in table AP3.T2 in DoD 8570.1M (see Attachments 5.1, IA Certifications and 5.2, CE Matrix).  The Contractor shall identify personnel performing IA functions identified in the PWS prior to that employee commencing any work under this PWS and provide documentation to the KO or designee showing the employee’s certification(s) and certification status.  The Contractor shall demonstrate that they have a process to track certification status of employees to ensure certifications are current or to replace departing employees with employees possessing current certifications in a manner that will not cause program interruption.  Contractor personnel shall be required to sign the User Access Agreement, Privileged Rules of Behavior, and General Rules of Behavior and non-Discloser agreement prior to working on any government system(s).



EQUIPMENT OPERATION.  This training is required for all Contractor employees who operate motor vehicles, MHE, other equipment with the required licensing, certification, or specialized training.  Training includes but is not limited to the requirements identified in CFR Title 29, Part 1910.178; CFR Title 49; American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.13-1996, Storage/Retrieval (S/R) Machines and Associated Equipment; and DLAI 4500.36, Management, Acquisition, and Use of DLA Operating Equipment, Sections E3m and E3n; and Federal, State and Local Laws.  Refresher training is required at a minimum of every three years or when warranted in accordance with OSHA, DoD, and manufacturer’s guidance.



SECURITY TRAINING.  To ensure that all employees know and understand regulations and policy pertaining to physical, information, operations and personnel security, the contractor shall provide security and antiterrorism training to all employees in accordance with applicable DOD regulatory requirements and as deemed appropriate by the CGA.  At a minimum, security training requirements as required by DLA Issuances and other applicable DOD guidance will be completed annually for; Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP), Operations Security (OPSEC), Counterintelligence, and Information Security (INFOSEC) and Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP).



The Contractor shall provide safety equipment while performing hazardous duties in both the office and warehouse environments.  The required safety equipment may include, but is not limited to, safety shoes, glasses, harness, and lanyard. 

 

The Contractor shall provide vehicles to be used for the transportation of Contractor personnel and equipment to various buildings within the designated location(s).  Contractor-furnished vehicles and operators shall meet all applicable licensing, insurance, registration and safety requirements.



Specific Tasks

end user (Hardware/software) support requirements

The Contractor shall:



Provide hardware/software installation, updates, configuration, troubleshooting and resolution.



Provide diagnostic assistance at all levels to users of automation to determine the cause and resolution of problems encountered in the use of hardware and software.  Refer unresolved problems to the DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA.



Provide support for all IT equipment, to include network servers, PCs, printers, scanners, portable computers, switches, routers, Blackberry devices, Multi Functional Devices (MFDs), desktop video systems/video teleconference and projection systems that are hooked to a laptop or PC, docking stations and any external peripherals (e.g. CDROM-R/DVD, CDROM-RW, CAC readers, etc.), wireless equipment, and other miscellaneous IT equipment. Equipment is located throughout multiple buildings.



Manage and perform equipment relocation, installation, expansion, connection / disconnection, upgrades, support/maintenance, and preventive maintenance of computer systems hardware, documentation, and peripheral devices, to include surveying new installations and moving IT equipment as requested; provide support to include servicing peripherals, such as printers.



Test and install computer hardware and software applications and ensure software applications meet end user requirements, and compliance to DLA’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERTs) and Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) mandates.



Plan and coordinate the removal, movement, and/or installation of computer hardware and software, to include transfer user data and profiles form legacy systems to the newly installed system.



Provide support for CAC (Common Access Card) deployment.  Install smart card readers, middleware, and PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) Certificates.  Provide troubleshooting, guidance and training to DLA personnel on use of the CAC card and its software certificates.

Provide on-site service for multiple divisions and other remote customers on an as required basis.  IT support shall be required for disconnection, connection, installation, or relocation of PCs and associated peripherals.  Guidance shall be provided for new equipment installations according to DLA Information Operations standard specifications.



Printer maintenance:

Install and maintain all types of network and PC attached printers (bar code, pRFID, & laser).

Install and configure network print servers.

Troubleshoot problems with print servers.



Excess IT Equipment:

Deliver unserviceable or excess IT equipment to staging area for disposal.

Prepare hard drives for disposal in accordance with DLA policy and provide records to the Technical Point of Contact (TPOC).

Complete and provide documentation to the Accountable Property Office (APO) to adjust inventory for any relocation or disposal of IT equipment.



Software Support:

Provide software support to include any subsequent releases/upgrades/patches, configuration, troubleshooting and resolution for various commercial software packages.

Provide software integration, identification of products to meet customer’s requirements current and future.

Provide technical support on software installation and configuration.

Utilize approved automated systems to remotely deploy all applicable software upgrades, patches, and mandated DLA CERTs.

Maintain IT inventory database for control and location of IT assets.

Provide software support to include but not limited to the following:

Microsoft Windows 

Microsoft Office

Microsoft Active Directory (AD)

DLA Distribution COTS applications (i.e. WebSphere, Globe Ranger)

Depot-unique applications

Contact proper vendor repair personnel for warranty repairs or when proprietary repairs are required.  Explain and demonstrate malfunctions to equipment vendors responding to warranty calls or proprietary contractor calls.  Verify that vendors who are servicing warranties or making proprietary repairs made proper repairs.  

Property Accountability

The Contractor shall maintain care of all Government-furnished property.  At all times during the performance of the contract requirements, title to government-furnished property shall remain vested with the Government.  In exercising care and custody, the Contractor shall safeguard all Government-furnished property.



The Contractor shall provide the proper protection for material under their custody and control.  If there is a loss the Contractor shall immediately notify the KO or designee. 

Liability for Government Property

The Contractor shall be held financially liable for loss, damage, or destruction of government property caused by negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use.  The KO or designee will make the pecuniary liability determination when a Contractor’s negligence results in loss, damage, or destruction of Government property.



The Contractor shall:

Notify the KO or designee immediately when it discovers the gain, loss, damage or destruction of government equipment or property.  

Conduct an initial search and/or informal investigation into the loss or damage of equipment or property and forward all research data to the KO or designee.

Cooperate in any subsequent investigations.



Indemnification and Limitation of Liability 

The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and hold it harmless against claims for injury to persons or damage to property of the Contractor or others arising from the Contractor’s possession or use of the government facilities, from its activities, or from its use, care and custody of government equipment and supplies relating to the performance of this contract. 



When the KO or designee determines that any loss, damage or destruction of government property is caused by the Contractor’s negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use, the KO or designee may off-set payments under the contract by the determined value of the loss, damage or destruction.  The Contractor’s liability per occurrence shall be limited to $50,000 with a total limit of liability of $1,000,000 per year.  This limit of liability does not apply to the Government’s right to indemnification.

Recordkeeping

The Contractor shall utilize the designated Time and Project Tracking System to input consolidated time spent on each assigned task using predetermined codes that will be provided within the tracking system.



The Contractor shall utilize the designated Incident Ticket Tracking System to identify, schedule, and complete all trouble call actions and requests. 



All documentation, record and databases, as described in this PWS, are the property of the Government.

Quality Control PLAN

DLA is committed to a highly interactive relationship between quality control by the Contractor and quality assurance by the government recipient of services.  This relationship shall be achieved through a Prevention Based Quality System dedicated to ensuring the best possible products and services to DLA end users.  The Contractor shall provide their final QCP no later than (NLT) 10 calendar days after the start of full performance in accordance with paragraph 6.4B.

The Contractor’s quality system shall demonstrate its prevention-based outlook by meeting the objectives stated in the PWS throughout all areas of performance (e.g., all functional areas, all APL and non-APL requirements).  The QCP shall be developed to specify the Contractor’s responsibility for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract.  Within 24 hours of completion, the Contractor shall provide to the KO or designee, all reports generated as a result of the Contractor’s quality control efforts.  This shall include any summary information used to track quality control, including any charts/graphs.

The Contractor’s QCP shall be incorporated into and become part of this contract after the plan has been accepted by the Government.  Changes made after KO or designee approval shall be submitted in writing to the KO or designee for review and acceptance.  The Contractor’s QCP shall be maintained throughout the life of the contract and shall include the Contractor’s procedures to routinely evaluate the effectiveness of the plan to ensure the Contractor is meeting the performance standards and requirements of the contract.

DLA Information Operations will implement a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to ensure the contractor provides the required services and adheres to quality standards as specified in this PWS.  The KO or designee shall monitor performance.  This monitoring by the KO or designee shall be carried out via the QASP as identified in the attachment to this PWS entitled, “Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) for DLA Information Operations.  This QASP document shall also ensure the Contractor’s QCP effectiveness and provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the Contractor is required to furnish. 

Deliverables

The Contractor shall submit the following deliverables:

time and Project tracking

The Contractor shall input into the designated Time and Project Tracking System consolidated time spent on each task completed using predetermined codes that are provided within the tracking system.

work order/Incident ticket tracking

A.  The Contractor shall utilize the designated Incident Ticket Tracking System to identify, schedule, and 

      complete all trouble call actions and requests.



B.  Within 24 hours after completion of a work order, the Contractor shall input into the designated 

      Incident Ticket Tracking System completed incident documentation.

weekly status reports

The Contractor shall provide a weekly report to the KO or designee that identifies work completed for the specified time period, any issues that could not be resolved, and any suspense that could not be met with an explanation for the delay.

documentation

The Contractor shall provide documentation of workstation/server installations/upgrades, to include screenshots, diagrams, technical specifications, and guidance for future reference.



The Contractor shall provide documentation and reports to the KO or designee on all reported or discovered incidents.  Documentation and reports shall be in accordance with the DLA Information Operations Incident Response Plan.



The Contractor shall provide all required certifications of personnel performing work under this contract in accordance with the specifications identified for each certification in this PWS (i.e. IA, MHE, etc.).





Observed Federal Holidays



New Year’s Day 

Martin Luther King Day 

Presidents Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veterans Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas DayDepartment of Defense

INSTRUCTION
NUMBER 8420.01 November 3, 2009 ASD(NII)/DoD CIO SUBJECT: Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and Technologies

References: See Enclosure 1

1. PURPOSE. PURPOSE This Instruction: a. In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive (DoDD) 5144.1 (Reference (a)) and the guidance in DoD Instruction 5025.01 (Reference (b)), establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures for the use of commercial WLAN devices, systems, and technologies to achieve and increase joint interoperability, appropriately protect DoD information, and enhance overall security to sufficiently protect DoD information by embracing open standards for WLAN devices, systems, and technologies. b. Incorporates and cancels Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD Chief Information Officer (ASD(NII)/DoD CIO) Memorandum (Reference (c)). c. Specifies the minimum set of security measures required on WLAN-enabled portable electronic devices (PEDs) that transmit, receive, process, or store unclassified and classified information. d. Provides guidance on establishing a wireless network intrusion detection capability for monitoring local area networks (LANs).

2. APPLICABILITY a. This Instruction applies to: (1) OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the "DoD Components").

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

(2) WLAN devices, systems, and technologies developed by commercial Industry in compliance with the current Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standard in IEEE Standard 802.11-2007 (Reference (d)), or the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 8802-11 (Reference (e)) for the international operational environment, that are used to store, process, receive, or transmit unclassified and classified information. Reference (d) incorporates IEEE 802.11a-1999 (Amendment 1), IEEE 802.11b-1999 (Amendment 2), IEEE 802.11g-2003 (Amendment 4), and 802.11i-2004 (Amendment 6), which will hereafter be referred to as "IEEE 802.11." WLANenabled information systems that have direct or indirect connection to operational DoD networks (i.e., SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet), Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet)) are not exempt from this Instruction, except as noted. A PED that is capable of IEEE 802.11 connectivity will hereafter be referred to as a WLAN-enabled PED. b. This Instruction does not apply to: (1) Other wireless or cellular technologies (e.g., 2.5/3/4G cellular systems, IEEE 802.15 wireless personal area networking (WPAN) standards (Bluetooth, ultra-wideband (UWB), ZigBee), proprietary microwave communications systems, IEEE 802.16-based Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) systems, receive-only pagers, global positioning system receivers, hearing aids, and personal life support systems). (2) The use of external WLAN systems that are not DoD owned or operated, or that are provided by commercial entities (e.g., hotspots), not-for-profit entities, DoD employees or contractors at personal residences, Federal partners, or research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) environments. (3) The detection segment of a PED (e.g., the laser used in optical storage media; between a barcode and a scanner head; or radio frequency (RF) energy between RF identification tags, both active and passive, and the reader and/or interrogator), in accordance with DoDD 8100.02 (Reference (f)). (4) The use of other wired or wireless access technologies or services on the WLAN-enabled PED that are not compliant with IEEE 802.11 (e.g., non-IEEE 802.11 memory cards, non-IEEE 802.11 Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA) cards, non-IEEE 802.11 ExpressCards, cellular network interface cards, non-IEEE 802.11 Universal Serial Bus (USB) adapters).

3. DEFINITIONS. See Glossary.

4. POLICY. It is DoD policy that: a. Unclassified WLAN systems shall be standards-based and IEEE 802.11 compliant, employ certified RF communications functions for interoperability, and employ certified and/or

2

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 validated information assurance (IA) and cryptographic functions, in accordance with sections 1 and 2 of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. b. Unclassified WLAN-enabled PEDs shall use antivirus software, personal firewalls, data-at-rest encryption, and implement strong identification and authentication (I&A) (e.g., two factor, at a minimum) to access the device and the network, in a manner compliant with paragraphs 2.a and 2.b and section 3 of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. c. Classified WLAN systems shall: (1) Employ National Security Agency (NSA)-approved encryption end-to-end, and be protected with strong physical security, in accordance with paragraphs 4.a and 4.b of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. (2) Secure the storage, processing, receipt, and transmission of information accessed using NSA-approved encryption with a key whose encryption strength is commensurate with the classification level of the information. (3) Implement IA measures that are consistent with Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) Policy No. 17 (Reference (g)), in accordance with paragraph 4.c of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. d. Classified WLAN-enabled PEDs shall use NSA, Type 1 encryption to protect classified data-in-transit and data-at-rest on PEDs, in accordance with paragraphs 4.a and 4.d of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. e. Unclassified and classified DoD wired and wireless LANs shall have a wireless intrusion detection capability that can be used to monitor WLAN activity and identify WLAN-related policy violations, implemented in accordance with section 5 of Enclosure 3 of this Instruction. f. Unclassified and classified WLAN-enabled PEDs used to access DoD e-mail systems shall support the signing and encrypting of e-mail, in accordance with DoDI 8520.2 (Reference (h)).

5. RESPONSIBILITIES. See Enclosure 2.

6. PROCEDURES. See Enclosure 3.

7. INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS. The information requirements in this Instruction are exempt from licensing in accordance with sections C4.4.2 and C4.4.4 of DoD Manual 8910.1-M (Reference (i)).

3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 8. RELEASABILITY. UNLIMITED. This Instruction is approved for public release and is available on the Internet from the DoD Directives Program Web Site at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.

9. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Instruction is effective immediately.

Enclosures 1. References 2. Responsibilities 3. Procedures Glossary

4

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 TABLE OF CONTENTS

REFERENCES ................................................................................................................................6 RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................................8 ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR NETWORKS AND INFORMATION INTEGRATION/DoD CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER (ASD(NII)/DoD CIO) ............8 DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY (DISA) .............................8 DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (DIA) ..................................................9 DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY/CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE (NSA/CSS).............................................................................................................................9 HEADS OF THE DoD COMPONENTS ..................................................................................9 PROCEDURES..............................................................................................................................11 INDUSTRY STANDARDS COMPLIANCE FOR UNCLASSIFIED WLANS ....................11 UNCLASSIFIED WLAN SECURITY CERTIFICATION AND VALIDATION .................12 UNCLASSIFIED WLAN AUTHENTICATION APPROACHES .........................................15 CLASSIFIED WLAN SECURITY CERTIFICATION AND VALIDATION.......................15 WLAN INTRUSION DETECTION........................................................................................17 WIRELESS SECURITY TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION (STIG) COMPLIANCE .....17 WLAN SPECTRUM SUPPORTABILITY .............................................................................17 INDUSTRY STANDARD WAVEFORM MODIFICATIONS ..............................................18 EXCEPTIONS TO THIS INSTRUCTION .............................................................................18 GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................20 PART I: ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ................................................................20 PART II: DEFINITIONS ........................................................................................................24

5

CONTENTS

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 ENCLOSURE 1 REFERENCES

(a) (b) (c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g) (h) (i) (j) (k) (l) (m) (n)

DoD Directive 5144.1, "Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD Chief Information Officer (ASD(NII)/DoD CIO)," May 2, 2005 DoD Instruction 5025.01, "DoD Directives Program," October 28, 2007 Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD Chief Information Officer Directive Type Memorandum (DTM) 06-007, "Use of Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information Grid (GIG)," June 2, 2006 (hereby canceled) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard 802.11-2007, "IEEE Standard for Information Technology - Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Specific Requirements Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications," June 12, 2007 1 International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission 8802-11, Second edition, "Information Technology - Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Specific Requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications," August 1, 2005 2 DoD Directive 8100.02, "Use of Commercial Wireless Devices, Services, and Technologies in the Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information Grid (GIG)," April 14, 2004 Committee on National Security Systems Policy No. 17, "National Information Assurance (IA) Policy on Wireless Capabilities," August 2005 DoD Instruction 8520.2, "Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling," April 1, 2004 DoD Manual 8910.1-M, "Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements," June 30, 1998 DoD Directive 5000.01, "The Defense Acquisition System," May 12, 2003 DoD Instruction 5000.02, "Operation of the Defense Acquisition System," December 8, 2008 National Security Directive 42, "National Policy for the Security of National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems," July 5, 1990 3 DoD Directive 4630.05, "Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS)," May 5, 2004 DoD Directive 8570.01, "Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management," August 15, 2004

1 2

Copies may be obtained at http://standards.ieee.org/getieee802/download/802.11-2007.pdf Copies may be purchased from the ISO Web site, http://www.iso.org 3 National Security Directive 42 may be obtained by SIPRNET subscribers via the NSA/CSS homepage, http://www.nsa.smil.mil/, under Information Assurance/IA Library/Presidential Issuances

6

ENCLOSURE 1

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 (o) DoD Instruction 8510.01, "DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP)," November 28, 2007 (p) Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 140-2, "Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules," May 25, 2001 (q) Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD Chief Information Officer Memorandum, "Encryption of Sensitive Unclassified Data at Rest on Mobile Computing Devices and Removable Storage," July 3, 2007 4 (r) DoD Instruction 8500.2, "Information Assurance (IA) Implementation," February 6, 2003 (s) DoD Regulation 5200.08-R, "Physical Security Program," April 9, 2007 (t) National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction No. 1000, "The National Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (NIACAP)," April 2000 (u) Director of Central Intelligence Directive 6/9, "Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities," November 18, 2002 5 (v) Intelligence Community Directive Number 503, "Intelligence Community Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management, Certification and Accreditation," September 15, 2008 (w) DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, "Information Security Program," January 14, 1997 (x) DoD Wireless Security Technical Implementation Guide V5R2, "Wireless Security Technical Implementation Guide," November 15, 2007 (y) DoD Instruction 4650.01, "Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic Spectrum," January 9, 2009 (z) DoD Directive 3222.3, "DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program," September 8, 2004 (aa) Military-Standard 461F, "Requirements for the Control of Electromagnetic Interference Characteristics of Subsystems and Equipment," December 10, 2007 (ab) Military-Standard 464A, "Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Requirements for Systems," December 19, 2002 (ac) DoD Instruction 4630.09, "Wireless Communications Waveform Development and Management," November 3, 2008 (ad) DoD Directive 8500.01E, "Information Assurance (IA)," October 24, 2002 (ae) Committee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 4009, "National Information Assurance (IA) Glossary," June 2006

4 5

Approved for public release and distribution. Copies may be obtained by contacting ASD(NII)/DoD CIO. Approved for limited distribution. Copies may be obtained by contacting the Office of the Intelligence Community Chief Information Officer.

7

ENCLOSURE 1

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 ENCLOSURE 2 RESPONSIBILITIES

1. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR NETWORKS AND INFORMATION INTEGRATION/DoD CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER (ASD(NII)/DoD CIO). The ASD(NII)/DoD CIO shall: a. Monitor and provide oversight and policy development for all DoD WLAN activities. b. Establish a coordination process with the Intelligence Community (IC) Chief Information Officer (CIO) to ensure proper protection of IC information in implementing this Instruction. c. Assess potential WLAN system architectures. As necessary, coordinate these activities with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics to ensure that the processes for acquisition of WLAN systems are clear and understandable, and address with the requirements of DoDD 5000.01 and DoDI 5000.02 (References (j) and (k), respectively).

2. DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY (DISA). The Director, DISA, under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(NII)/DoD CIO, shall: a. Provide guidance for the development of incident response plans and standards for intrusion detection and intrusion prevention on DoD wired and wireless LANs. b. Develop and provide, in conjunction with Joint Staff Directorate for Command, Control, Communications, and Computer System, architectures, system requirements, and specifications to support WLAN solution interoperability and net-readiness testing. c. Develop and provide architectures, specifications, systems engineering, and integration guidelines for command and control capable WLAN systems in coordination with National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS), per National Security Directive 42 (Reference (l)), to support WLAN solution interoperability and net-readiness testing. d. Ensure that the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) performs interoperability testing and provides interoperability certification of WLAN devices deployed within the Department of Defense, in accordance with DoDD 4630.05 (Reference (m)). (1) Once an interoperability test is conducted, the results may be used to issue an interoperability certification, if the test criteria and configuration satisfy established requirements. (2) JITC may also issue a DoD Standards Conformance Certification for WLAN-enabled PEDs that implement standards that may impact interoperability.

8

ENCLOSURE 2

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

3. DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (DIA). The Director, DIA, under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), shall provide intelligence support and guidance on the use of WLAN technologies in a DIA-accredited Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF).

4. DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY/CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE (NSA/CSS). The Director, NSA/CSS, under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(I), and pursuant to Reference (l) shall: a. Develop medium and high assurance protection profiles for WLAN client systems, WLAN access systems, personal firewalls, antivirus protection packages, and wireless intrusion detection systems (WIDS). b. Provide risk and vulnerability assessments for WLAN technologies that are responsive to DoD requirements. c. Develop and disseminate threat information regarding the capabilities and intentions of adversaries to exploit WLAN technologies used by the DoD Components. d. Serve as the DoD focal point for WLAN IA technology research and development, to include protection mechanisms, detection and monitoring, response and recovery, and IA assessment tools and techniques. As necessary, coordinate these activities with the Director, Defense Research and Engineering. e. Function as the approval authority for Type 1 certification of commercial WLAN products.

5. HEADS OF THE DoD COMPONENTS. The Heads of DoD Components shall: a. Ensure that all procurements of commercial WLAN products and subsequent operations comply with this Instruction. b. Promote joint interoperability through the adoption of commercial, standards-based, IA-certified WLAN products in accordance with the requirements of this Instruction. c. Control WLAN access to information systems to ensure that WLAN-based threats (including authorized and unauthorized WLAN devices, technologies, or systems) do not introduce vulnerabilities that undermine the assurance of the other interconnected systems. d. Prepare and execute incident response plans for WLAN intrusion detection events. e. Comply with all procedures identified in Enclosure 3.

9

ENCLOSURE 2

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 f. Ensure all authorized users, privileged users, and IA managers of WLAN devices, systems, and technologies receive IA awareness training and are trained and certified to perform respective IA duties, in accordance with DoDD 8570.01 (Reference (n)).

10

ENCLOSURE 2

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 ENCLOSURE 3 PROCEDURES

1. INDUSTRY STANDARDS COMPLIANCE FOR UNCLASSIFIED WLANS a. Standards-Based WLAN Technologies. DoD Components shall ensure that only standards-based WLAN technologies are deployed for unclassified WLANs by adhering to: (1) IEEE Standards. Only WLAN devices, systems, and technologies that are compliant with IEEE 802.11 shall be acquired. (2) Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Standards. Only standards-based WLAN identification and authentication between WLAN devices and WLAN infrastructure that is in compliance with the IETF Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) request for comment (RFC) 4017 standard shall be provided. (Copies may be obtained at http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4017.txt?number=4017.) The IETF EAP-Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS) RFC 2716 standard shall be used as the only approved EAP method. (Copies may be obtained at http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2716.txt?number=2716.) b. WLAN System Interoperability. DoD Components shall ensure systems interoperability for unclassified WLANs by adhering to: (1) Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) Alliance Certification. All acquisitions of WLAN-enabled devices shall be Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) Enterprise certified by the Wi-Fi Alliance. WLAN-enabled devices (e.g., Network Interface Cards (NICs) and access points (APs), WLAN controllers, WLAN switches) that store, process, or transmit unclassified information shall be: (a) Wi-Fi Alliance certified as 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, or other 802.11 Physical (PHY)-Layer standards for device data communications interoperability. The Wi-Fi Alliance certifies that WLAN-enabled devices are able to negotiate PHY- and Media Access Control (MAC)-Layer specification data communications and can establish International Standards Organization (ISO) open systems interconnect (OSI) Layer 1 and Layer 2 connections. (b) WPA2 Enterprise certified for device security communications interoperability. WPA2 certifies that WLAN-enabled devices that implement Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)-Counter with Cipher Block Chaining (Counter with CBC)-Message Authentication Code (MAC) Protocol (known collectively as AES-CCMP) are able to negotiate MAC-Layer specification security communications and can establish an ISO OSI Layer 2 security connection. (2) JITC Approval. Per Reference (l), DoD Components shall ensure that systems meet overall end-to-end interoperability requirements as approved by the JITC. Obtaining Wi-Fi and

11

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 WPA2 interoperability certifications does not eliminate the requirement for obtaining JITC certification, in accordance with References (m) and (l).

2. UNCLASSIFIED WLAN SECURITY CERTIFICATION AND VALIDATION. DoD Components shall ensure that unclassified WLAN products are certified and validated for secure end-to-end communications. Per DoDI 8510.01 (Reference (o)), DoD Components shall ensure that the system meets overall end-to-end security requirements as approved by the designated accrediting authority (DAA). a. National Institute of Standards and Technology Certifications. Per Reference (f), encryption of unclassified data-in-transit via WLAN-enabled PEDs, systems, and technologies shall be implemented in a manner that protects the data end-to-end. All system components within a WLAN that wirelessly transmit unclassified DoD information shall have cryptographic functionality that is validated under the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP), as meeting requirements per Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 140 (Reference (p)). There are multiple FIPS 140 Publications (e.g., FIPS 140-1, FIPS 140-2, FIPS 140-3), which hereafter will be referred to collectively as "FIPS 140" to reference the currently approved publication. Per Reference (f), encryption of data-at-rest that is validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140 shall be implemented on WLAN-enabled PEDs. (1) WLAN-Enabled PEDs. Unclassified WLAN-enabled PEDs shall have FIPS 140 validated encryption to protect data-in-transit on the WLAN client portion of the end-to-end WLAN communications link. WLAN-enabled PEDs may implement encryption either in software (via the WLAN supplicant) or in hardware (via the WLAN NIC). (a) Software-Based Encryption. WLAN client supplicants supporting this configuration shall disable (or otherwise preempt) the encryption capabilities of the WLAN client's NIC so that the encryption can be performed solely by the supplicant software. WLAN client supplicants shall implement the AES-CCMP for encryption as defined in Reference (d). The AES-CCMP encryption shall be validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. (b) Hardware-Based Encryption. WLAN client NICs supporting this configuration shall implement AES-CCMP as defined in Reference (d) within NIC hardware. The AES-CCMP encryption shall be validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. (2) AP/WLAN Controller. Unclassified WLAN infrastructure devices shall have FIPS 140 validated encryption to protect data-in-transit on the WLAN infrastructure portion of the end-to-end WLAN communications link. WLAN infrastructure systems may be composed of either stand-alone (also referred to as an autonomous) APs, or thin APs that are centrally controlled by a WLAN controller (also referred to as a WLAN switch). All WLAN infrastructure devices shall implement AES-CCMP as defined in Reference (d). The AES-CCMP encryption shall be validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140.

12

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 (3) Data-at-Rest. Data-at-rest encryption shall be implemented in a manner that protects unclassified information stored on WLAN-enabled PEDs by requiring that the PED must be powered on and credentials successfully authenticated in order for the data to be deciphered. Credentials for authentication shall be either public key infrastructure (PKI) certificates on the Common Access Card (CAC) or username/password for devices that cannot interface with the CAC. Data-at-rest encryption shall include the encryption of individual files, portions of the file system (e.g., directories or partitions), or the entire drive (e.g., hard disks, on-board memory cards, memory expansion cards). In recognition of the increased risk of unauthorized access to unclassified information in the event that a PED is lost or stolen and the inherently mobile nature of these devices, encryption shall be provided for data-at-rest on all WLAN-enabled PEDs that is validated as meeting FIPS 140 Overall Level 1 or Level 2 requirements. All unclassified DoD data-at-rest on WLAN-enabled PEDs that has not been approved for public release shall be encrypted, in accordance with ASD NII/DoD CIO Memorandum (Reference (q)). (4) WLAN Authentication. Unclassified WLAN systems shall have NIST CMVP FIPS 140 validated authentication schemes. (a) WLAN Client Supplicant Authentication. Authentication shall be implemented by WLAN client supplicants that comply with IETF EAP standards for WLANs RFC 4017. The approved algorithms (e.g., Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC), and Secure Hash Standard (SHS)) implemented during the EAP authentication process shall be validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. (b) Authentication Server. Authentication servers are responsible for authenticating user and/or device credentials during EAP authentication; some also transmit the keying information that enables the AES-CCMP 4-way handshake as defined in Reference (d). Reference (d) includes Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) (IETF RFC RFC 3579) as an authentication server, which is part of a WLAN system. Alternative authentication servers are available via proxy-type authentication in WLAN controllers that allow the WLAN infrastructure to authenticate against X.500 directories, lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) services, domain controllers, local user databases, and other authentication sources. Authentication servers interconnect with WLAN infrastructure over the distribution (or backhaul) portion and not the access portion of the network. Therefore, the distribution portion does not represent the same level of risk to exposure of DoD information. Authentication servers transmit keying information once a user and/or device has been authenticated, which allows the WLAN client supplicant and AP to begin negotiating security keys for AES-CCMP data-intransit encryption (Reference (d) calls the keying information the "authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) key"). The authentication server must transmit the keying information to the AP via a separate process. The secure transmission of keying information to APs is known as key wrapping. Some authentication servers are embedded within the WLAN infrastructure, and therefore can process keying information internally within the WLAN infrastructure. Also, some WLAN infrastructure has the ability to internally generate the keying information, thereby not requiring the transmission of keying information from authentication servers. 1. EAP-Authentication. DoD Components that implement authentication servers that generate keying information and implement EAP-authentication of credentials provided by

13

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 WLAN client supplicants shall implement approved algorithms (e.g., HMAC, SHS, random number generator (RNG), AES, and Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA)) validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. 2. Encrypted Key Wrapping. DoD Components that implement authentication servers that generate keying information and implement key wrapping prior to transmission to APs may validate the key wrapping under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. The key wrapping shall be implemented with approved algorithms (e.g., AES) validated under the NIST CMVP as meeting FIPS 140. (5) Validated Physical Security. APs used in unclassified WLANs should not be installed in unprotected environments due to an increased risk of tampering and/or theft. If installed in unprotected environments, APs that store plaintext cryptographic keying information shall be protected with added physical security to mitigate risks. DoD Components may choose products that meet FIPS 140-2 Overall Level 2, or higher, validation (to ensure that the AP provides validated tamper evidence, at a minimum). Alternatively, DoD Components may physically secure APs by placing them inside of securely mounted, pick-resistant, lockable enclosures. b. National Information Assurance Partnership Validation. Any IA-enabled unclassified WLAN product shall be National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) Common Criteria (CC) validated. When available, WLAN-enabled solutions shall be validated under the NIAP CC as meeting applicable U.S. Government (USG) WLAN protection profiles (e.g., WLAN client or WLAN access system) for medium robustness environments, in accordance with DoDD 8500.2 (Reference (r)). (1) WLAN Access Systems/Client Systems. WLAN-enabled PEDs and infrastructure (e.g., WLAN APs, WLAN controllers, WLAN NICs, and WLAN supplicants) shall be NIAP CC validated. WLAN devices and infrastructure shall be validated under the NIAP CC as meeting applicable USG WLAN access systems or client systems protection profiles for medium robustness environments, when products are available. (2) Antivirus. WLAN-enabled PEDs shall use antivirus software when data services are to be used on those devices, per Reference (r). Antivirus software shall be NIAP CC validated as meeting the USG antivirus protection profile for medium robustness environments, when products are available. (3) Personal Firewall. WLAN-enabled PEDs shall use personal firewalls, per Reference (r). Personal firewalls shall be NIAP CC validated as meeting USG personal firewall protection profile for medium robustness environments, when products are available. (4) WIDS. DoD Components shall use WIDS to actively screen for unauthorized WLAN activity, per Reference (f). WIDS shall be validated under the NIAP CC as meeting applicable USG protection profiles for medium robustness environments, when products are available.

14

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

3. UNCLASSIFIED WLAN AUTHENTICATION APPROACHES. Per Reference (f), strong authentication shall be implemented at network and device levels as a method of protecting access to unclassified WLANs. DoD Components shall ensure that standards-based EAP authentication is used to authenticate unclassified WLAN users and/or devices. a. Strong Identification and Authentication. Per Reference (f), unclassified WLAN devices, systems, and technologies shall use strong I&A (e.g., two factor, at minimum) at the device and network levels in accordance with published DoD policies and procedures. When "something you have" is used as one of the authentication factors, it shall be something other than the WLAN-enabled PED. Examples of the "something you have" authentication factor include, but are not limited to: key fobs, smartcards, USB tokens, and hardware tokens. Strong authentication at the device and network levels may be achieved by assessing the combined processes of WLAN authentication (e.g., 802.1X and EAP) and domain authentication (e.g., domain and/or directory login). b. WLAN Authentication. DoD Components shall implement unclassified WLAN systems with standards-based authentication mechanisms. WLAN authentication is to be achieved by ensuring interoperability and validated secure implementations. WLAN authentication shall implement the AES-CCMP 4-way handshake key exchange as defined in Reference (d). WLAN devices and infrastructure shall be WPA2 Enterprise certified to ensure that authentication can be negotiated in a mixed vendor WLAN system implementation. WLAN infrastructure shall implement 802.1X access control to prevent WLAN access to unauthorized WLAN devices and enforce authentication of authorized WLAN devices, prior to providing access. EAP authentication shall facilitate the verification of credentials provided by authorized WLAN devices and/or users. Cryptographic modules implemented to facilitate authentication shall be FIPS 140 validated in accordance with paragraph 2 of this enclosure.

4. CLASSIFIED WLAN SECURITY CERTIFICATION AND VALIDATION. DoD Components shall ensure that classified WLAN products are certified and validated for secure end-to-end communications. Per Reference (o), DoD Components shall ensure that the system meets overall end-to-end security requirements as approved by the DAA. a. Certification of Classified WLAN Products. WLAN devices, systems, and technologies used to transmit, store, or process classified information shall: (1) Be reviewed and certified by NSA prior to acquisition and use. In order for a product to be NSA-approved, the product must have its implementation, key and key management, concept of operations (CONOPS), and interoperability requirements independently certified by NSA. (2) Use NSA-approved Type 1 products, appropriately keyed, for encrypting and decrypting classified and sensitive national security information. The NSA Commercial Communication Security (COMSEC) Evaluation Program (CCEP) is the approval authority for commercial products certified as Type 1.

15

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

b. Physical Security of Classified WLANs (1) WLAN APs used to transmit or process classified information shall be physically secured, and methods shall exist to facilitate the detection of tampering. WLAN APs are part of communication systems and shall have controlled physical security, in accordance with DoD 5200.08-R (Reference (s)). (2) Either physical or electronic inventories may be conducted by polling the serial number or MAC address. APs not stored in a COMSEC-approved security container shall be physically inventoried. (3) WLAN APs shall be set to the lowest possible transmit power setting that meets the required signal strength of the area serviced by the AP. c. Information Assurance for Classified WLANs. Implementation of classified WLAN devices, systems, and technologies shall: (1) Be rekeyed every 90 days, at a minimum. (2) Use a session timeout capability, not to exceed 30 minutes. (3) Employ identification and authentication (I&A) measures for the WLAN-enabled PED and WLAN, in accordance with National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction No. 1000 (Reference (t)). (4) Include integrity and non-repudiation controls. (5) Support adjustments to operations and/or configurations based on guidance issued by the SIPRNET Connection Approval Office (CAO). Written operating procedure or policy shall describe procedures for the protection, handling, accounting, and use of NSA Type-1 certified WLAN hardware and key material. (6) Ensure that a SIPRNET connection approval package is on file with the CAO and the package is updated, as needed, to include the classified WLAN system. (7) Not use WLAN devices in a permanent, temporary, or mobile SCIF unless approved in accordance with Director Central Intelligence Directive 6/9 (Reference (u)) or Intelligence Community Directive Number 503 (Reference (v)) requirements. (8) Ensure that the Certified TEMPEST Technical Authority (CTTA) is notified before installation and operation of WLANs intended for use in processing or transmitting classified information. (9) Ensure that all WLAN systems are certified and accredited, in accordance with References (o) and (t).

16

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

(10) Configure APs to perform client device access control using MAC filtering. d. Protection of Classified Data-At-Rest on WLAN-Enabled PEDs. Classified data-at-rest on PEDs shall be protected by: (1) Implementing encryption of classified data-at-rest with NSA Type 1 certified encryption at a level consistent with the classification of the data stored on the device; (2) Removing storage media that contains classified information from the PED and storing it within the appropriate General Services Administration (GSA)-approved security container, in accordance with DoD Regulation 5200.1-R (Reference (w)); or (3) Placing the entire PED within the appropriate GSA-approved security container, in accordance with Reference (w).

5. WLAN INTRUSION DETECTION. DoD Components shall ensure that a WIDS is implemented that allows for monitoring of WLAN activity and the detection of WLAN-related policy violations on all unclassified and classified DoD wired and wireless LANs. a. WIDS Monitoring Requirements. The WIDS shall be capable of monitoring IEEE 802.11 transmissions within all DoD LAN environments and detect nearby unauthorized WLAN devices. WIDS shall not be required to monitor non-IEEE 802.11 transmissions. b. WIDS Implementation Criteria. The WIDS shall continuously scan for and detect authorized and unauthorized WLAN activities 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Scanning shall include a location-sensing capability that enables designated personnel to locate, identify, and take appropriate actions to mitigate IEEE 802.11 threats.

6. WIRELESS SECURITY TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION GUIDE (STIG) COMPLIANCE. In addition to adhering to the procedures specified in this enclosure, incorporate the security best practices specified in the Wireless STIG (Reference (x)), as it pertains to the implementation of WLANs.

7. WLAN SPECTRUM SUPPORTABILITY. Ensure spectrum supportability prior to acquiring spectrum-dependent WLAN systems in accordance with DoDD 4650.01 (Reference (y)), and ensure compliance with the DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Program in accordance with DoDD 3222.3 (Reference (z)). Ensure adherence with Military Standards (MIL-STD) that are applicable to the installation and operation of WLANs, in accordance with MIL-STD 461F and MIL-STD 464A (References (aa) and (ab)). The Department of Defense requires that non-licensed devices operating in the United States and its possessions (USP) shall be registered with the local spectrum management office. Outside USP, each theater commander and host nation shall determine if frequency support is available and authorized. Users must submit a

17

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 DD Form 1494, "Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation," through the supporting spectrum management office for equipment that intentionally radiates and will be deployed outside the USP. After obtaining favorable host nation guidance, users may request frequency assignment, as needed.

8. INDUSTRY STANDARD WAVEFORM MODIFICATIONS. To ensure system and network interoperability, unclassified and classified WLAN communications waveforms that are not in full compliance with open commercial standards shall be subject to review and assessment by ASD(NII)/DoD CIO. Waveform development and modifications (e.g., spectrum, power output level, symbol, throughput modulation, or coding modifications) must be submitted for review and assessment in accordance with the procedures specified in DoDI 4630.09 (Reference (ac)).

9. EXCEPTIONS TO THIS INSTRUCTION a. Unclassified WLAN Security Exceptions. DAAs are authorized to grant exceptions to this Instruction for unclassified WLAN devices, systems, or technologies. (1) Non-Compliant WLAN Devices, Systems, or Technology Exceptions. Exceptions may be made by the DAA for the use of non-compliant WLAN devices, systems, or technologies provided the justification for the exception is documented as part of the system's DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) package, in accordance with Reference (o). The documentation shall denote acceptance of a non-standard security solution and the potential impact that a loss of interoperability imposes on the system, DoD users, and the Global Information Grid (GIG). DAAs shall review the DIACAP package to make an informed decision about the impact to interoperability before granting an exception. (a) Exceptions for the Use of Type-1 Devices on Unclassified WLANs. Use of NSA-certified Type 1 products is also acceptable for unclassified data, when operating in the secure mode. Type 1 WLAN products are proprietary in nature and are not interoperable with IEEE 802.11 solutions, and therefore represent a loss of interoperability. (b) Exceptions for Minimal Impact WLAN Systems. Exceptions can be granted by the DAA for minimal impact WLANs systems. Minimal impact WLANs systems are systems that: do not provide connectivity to WLAN-enabled PEDs (e.g., backhaul systems); have no available FIPS 140 validated, 802.1X, EAP-TLS supplicant; support a very small number of users for a specific mission (i.e., 10 or less users); are standalone networks; or are highly specialized WLAN systems that are isolated from the GIG (e.g., handheld personal digital assistants (PDAs) used as radio-frequency identification (RFID) readers, a network of WLAN-enabled Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phones). These systems shall be segmented from the GIG via a wireless demilitarized zone (DMZ) that provides network intrusion detection capabilities and limits ports and protocols to the minimum set necessary to achieve mission objectives. A STIG-compliant firewall shall be located at the system's point of entry onto the GIG.

18

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

(2) Unclassified WLAN Backhaul Exceptions. WLAN technologies that are deployed solely to establish backhaul or site-to-site connectivity (i.e., bridge links that do not directly interconnect with user devices) via point-to-point or point-to-multipoint links are exempt from the standards set forth in this Instruction. DoD Components shall protect backhaul data-in-transit with FIPS 140 validated encryption modules in accordance with Reference (f). (3) Unclassified WIDS Exceptions. Exceptions to WIDS implementation criteria stated in this Instruction may be made by the DAA for DoD wired and WLANs operating environments. This exception allows the DAA to implement periodic scanning conducted by designated personnel using handheld scanners during walkthrough assessments. Periodic scanning may be conducted as the alternative to the continuous scanning described in paragraph 5.b of this enclosure only in special circumstances where it has been determined on a case-bycase basis that continuous scanning is either infeasible or unwarranted. b. Classified Exceptions. Exceptions are not authorized for classified WLAN devices, systems, or technologies, or WIDS.

19

ENCLOSURE 3

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 GLOSSARY PART I. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

2.5G 3G 4G 802.1X 802.11-2007 802.11a

802.11b

802.11g

802.11i 802.11n 802.15.1 802.16 AAA key AES AES-CCMP

2.5 generation cellular wireless technology 3rd generation cellular wireless technology 4th generation cellular wireless technology IEEE Standard for Port-based Network Access Control IEEE WLAN Standard, Maintenance & Revision IEEE WLAN Standard for Higher Speed PHY Extension in the 5GHz Band, also known as IEEE Std. 802.11-2007 (formerly IEEE 802.11a-1999 (Amendment 1)). IEEE WLAN Standard for Higher Speed PHY Extension in the 2.4 GHz Band, also known as IEEE Std. 802.11-2007 (formerly IEEE 802.11b-1999 (Amendment 2)). IEEE WLAN Standard for Further Higher Data Rate Extension in the 2.4 GHz Band, also known as IEEE Std. 802.11-2007 (formerly IEEE 802.11g-2003 (Amendment 4)). IEEE WLAN Standard for MAC Security Enhancements, also known as IEEE Std. 802.11-2007 (formerly IEEE 802.11i-2004 (Amendment 6)). IEEE WLAN Standard for High Throughput IEEE WPAN Standard (also known as Bluetooth) IEEE WiMAX Standard for ETSI HIPERMAN and Mobile WiMAX

authentication, authorization, and accounting key Advanced Encryption Standard Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)-Counter with Cipher Block Chaining (Counter with CBC)-Message Authentication Code (MAC) Protocol AP access point ASD NII/DoD CIO Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration/DoD Chief Information Officer CAC CBC CC Common Access Card cipher block chaining common criteria 20 GLOSSARY

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 CCEP CIO CJCSI CMVP CNSS COMSEC CONOPS CTTA DAA DIA DIACAP DISA DMZ DoDD DoDI DTM EAP EAP-TLS FIPS GHz GIG GSA HMAC I&A IA IC IEEE IETF ISO Commercial COMSEC Evaluation Program Chief Information Officer Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction Cryptographic Module Validation Program Committee on National Security Systems communication security concept of operations Certified TEMPEST Technical Authority designated accrediting authority Defense Intelligence Agency DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process Defense Information Systems Agency demilitarized zone DoD Directive DoD Instruction Directive-type memorandum Extensible Authentication Protocol Extensible Authentication Protocol-Transport Layer Security Federal Information Processing Standards gigahertz Global Information Grid General Services Administration Hash Message Authentication Code identification and authentication information assurance Intelligence Community Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Internet Engineering Task Force International Standards Organization

21

GLOSSARY

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 ISO/IEC IT JITC LAN LDAP MAC MAC-Layer MIL-STD NIACAP NIAP NIC NIPRNET NIST NSA NSA/CSS NSS OSI PCMCIA PDA PED PHY-Layer PK PKI RADIUS RDT&E RF RFC International Standards Organization/International Electrotechnical Commission information technology Joint Interoperability Test Command local area network lightweight directory access protocol Message Authentication Code medium access control layer Military Standard The National Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process National Information Assurance Partnership network interface card Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network National Institute of Standards and Technology National Security Agency National Security Agency/Central Security Service National Security Systems Open Systems Interconnection Personal Computer Memory Card International Association personal digital assistant portable electronic device physical layer public key public key infrastructure Remote Authentication Dial In User Service research, development, test and evaluation radio frequency request for comments 22 GLOSSARY

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 RFID RNG RSA SCIF SHS SIPRNET STIG Std. USB USD(I) USG USP UWB VoIP Wi-Fi WIDS WiMAX WLAN WPA2 WPAN radio-frequency identification random number generator Rivest-Shamir-Adleman Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility Secure Hash Standard SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network Security Technical Implementation Guide standard Universal Serial Bus Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence U.S. Government United States and its possessions ultra-wideband Voice over Internet Protocol Wireless Fidelity wireless intrusion detection system Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access wireless local area network Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 wireless personal area network PART II. DEFINITIONS Unless otherwise noted, the following terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this
Instruction.

AES-CCM. An encryption algorithm that utilizes the 128-bit block ciphers to provide authentication and privacy. IEEE 802.1X. An IEEE standard that performs network access control by utilizing EAP to provide authentication to LAN devices. IEEE 802.11. An IEEE body of standards that operate in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz spectrum bands in order to provide communication in WLAN environments. The family of standards is comprised of the IEEE Std. 802.11-2007 (which incorporates 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11d,

23

GLOSSARY

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009 802.11g, 802.11h, 802.11i, 802.11j, 802.11e) and a number of amendments (e.g., 802.11n, 802.11s, 802.11w). IEEE 802.16. A body of standards established by the IEEE to facilitate point-to-multipoint broadband wireless transmission. The 802.16 body of standards is comprised of multiple sub groups (e.g., a/b/c/d/e/f/g/k/m) that supports line-of-sight, non-line-of-sight, and quality of service. It operates in the 2-11 GHz spectrum. information assurance. Defined in DoDD 8500.01E (Reference (ad)). interoperability. Defined in Reference (m). minimal impact WLAN system. A system with minimal connectivity, information, and security requirements that is connected to the DoD Enterprise. These systems have a small number of users and a limited ability to transmit, store, or process DoD information, and therefore have a low level of risk associated with their confidentiality, integrity, and availability. net-readiness. A concept that ensures that the most efficient technology is utilized in order to meet the needs of users, and that the system is capable of performing the missions or functions for which it is organized or designed to carry out. non-IEEE 802.11. Any wireless transmission emanating from an RF device that is not based on the IEEE 802.11 body of standards. These transmissions can cause interference with IEEE 802.11 devices or may be difficult to monitor and/or detect with a WIDS. There are three categories of non-IEEE devices: IEEE 802.11 devices that operate in a non-standard frequency band; non-IEEE 802.11 devices that operate in the standard IEEE 802.11 frequency band; and non-IEEE 802.11 devices that operate in a non-standard frequency band. Common examples of non-IEEE 802.11 devices that cause interference with IEEE 802.11 devices include microwave ovens, cordless phones, and wireless webcams. Common examples of non-IEEE 802.11 devices that are difficult to monitor with a WIDS include Type 1 proprietary WLAN products, WLAN devices that have had frequency modifications, and proprietary microwave systems. non-standard security solution. A security solution that does not adhere to a set of guidelines (e.g., FIPS validated, NIST validated, CC, NSA Type-1 encryptors). PED. Defined in Reference (f). secure end-to-end communications. The process of securing communications between devices, networks, and users, by providing confidentiality over vulnerable links between the end-user device and the security border of a DoD network (and/or between two interconnected DoD user devices). WLANs need to have confidentiality protection of wireless air interfaces in order to ensure secure end-to-end communications. strong authentication. A method used to secure computer systems and/or networks by verifying a user's identity by requiring two-factors in order to authenticate (something you know, something you are, or something you have).

24

GLOSSARY

DoDI 8420.01, November 3, 2009

Type 1 product. Defined in Committee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 4009 (Reference (ae)). WIDS. A commercial wireless technology that assists designated personnel with the monitoring of specific parts of the RF spectrum to identify unauthorized wireless transmissions and/or activities. A WIDS consists of: RF component(s) with an antenna and radio designed to collect specific wireless transmissions; an analysis component that distinguishes between authorized and unauthorized wireless transmissions; and a display component that acts as the user interface that reports findings to designated personnel. WIDS may not provide a sufficient amount of monitoring support for non-IEEE 802.11 transmissions. Non-IEEE 802.11 transmissions include, but are not limited to, other RF devices that transmit and receive in the standard IEEE 802.11 frequency bands (currently 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz) and transceivers that are similar to IEEE 802.11 but operate in non-standard frequency band. WLAN. A network in which a mobile node can connect to a local area network using a wireless (radio frequency-based) connection that spans a small geographical area (a single radio typically covers up to 500 meters). WLAN-enabled PED. A PED that has been enabled to provide IEEE 802.11 communications. Examples of WLAN-enabled PEDs include, but are not limited to, personal digital assistants, cellular or personal communications system phones, Smartphones, e-mail devices, handheld audio/video recording devices, handheld devices, tablet computers, and laptop computers. X.500. A series of International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector standards for electronic directory services.

25

GLOSSARY


                                                       Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
                                                                       for
                                                               IT Support Services

1.0. Purpose

1.0.1. This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) is a government developed document used to evaluate Contractor actions while implementing
the Performance Work Statement (PWS) included in this contract.  The QASP is designed to provide an effective surveillance method for monitoring
and evaluating the Contractor’s performance for each of the performance objectives, to ensure that the Contractor performs in accordance with
the performance metrics set forth herein, and to ensure that the Government receives the acceptable performance levels of services.

1.0.2. The Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) performs surveillance activities under direction of the DLA Information Operations at New
Cumberland Director. The QASP will also afford the Contracting Officer (KO) and the COR a productive mechanism to preclude major deficiencies in
Contractor performance, provide input for the annual Contractor performance evaluations, and make the determination of exercising contract
options and that the Government only pays for acceptable level of services received.  The Contractor, and not the Government, is responsible for
management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract.  The role of the Government is to carry out quality assurance
surveillance actions to ensure contract standards are achieved.  This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) may be revised periodically as
determined by the COR and KO. The Contractor shall be provided a 30-day notice of the revision.

2.0. Performance objectives for the Contractor


2.0.1. The Contractor shall perform IT support services with oversight and approval of the COR.  These services include all functions associated
with generally accepted IT functions, services, and information and equipment accountability requirements. Specific tasks are detailed in the
PWS.

2.0.2. Contractor shall ensure that adequate staffing levels are provided to meet the Acceptable Performance Levels (APL’s) detailed in this
QASP.  Contractor will be evaluated monthly to ensure performance meets or exceeds the APL’s listed below. Penalty deductions may be used to
reduce the monthly fixed price invoice when APL’s are not met.

3.0. Metrics / penalties

3.0.1. Performance levels will be monitored and measured monthly, and compared against the APL’s by the COR.  If a performance objective APL is
not met, the payment due to the Contractor may be reduced by the penalty listed in the APL.  While it may be possible for penalty percentages to
add to more than 10%, the maximum discount will be 10%.

3.0.2. Actual use and application of monetary penalties may be waived upon recommendation by the COR and final determination by the KO that such
penalties are not necessary or are not appropriate based on the circumstances associated with creating the penalty.

Acceptable Performance Levels:

4.0. IT SUPPORT

4.1.0. Performance Objective: Provide technical staffing to support DLA Information Operations system requirements, to include End-User support.


   4.1.1. Measure 1:  Provide timely End-User support to DLA customers located at Tobyhanna.  Incident calls are answered quickly and responded
   to in a timely, courteous and professional manner.  Contractor ensures that customer’s response time expectations are met or exceeded, and
   that the number of second requests for service by customers is minimal.


      4.1.1.1. Surveillance:  The COR will perform periodic inspections to assure requests are acknowledged in a timely manner.  This may include
      gathering information from customers or survey data to determine if service requests received action within the designated time period.


      4.1.1.2. Acceptable Performance Level:  Contractor shall respond to service requests, by e-mail, phone call or customer visit as
      appropriate, within one (1) hour for priority one (1) (critical/immediate) problems; three (3) hours for priority two (2) (high) problems;
      24 hours for priority three (3) (medium) problems; and 72 hours for priority four (4) (low) problems.  At least 95% of incident calls
      received during the hours of operation stated in the PWS section 2.2.4 are responded to within the above time limits.


      4.1.1.3. Penalty: 2%

4.2.0. Performance Objective: Timely completion of assigned projects and tasks.


   4.2.1. Measure 1: Assigned projects and tasks are completed accurately and within the time frame allotted.


      4.2.1.1. Surveillance:  The COR will perform periodic inspections to determine whether assigned projects and tasks are completed within
      specified time limits.


      4.2.1.2. Acceptable performance level: At least 90% of assigned projects / tasks are completed and returned to the Technical Point of
      Contact (TPOC) by the negotiated timeframe based on the complexity of the project/task.  Contractor personnel will notify the TPOC of any
      anticipated delays, and will notify the TPOC of task completion within 24 hours.  Documentation is to be completed within 5 working days of
      completion of the respective phase.  A weekly report shall be provided which provides a summary of work completed and any issues that could
      not be resolved or suspense that was not met and an explanation for the delay.  All documentation shall be accurate and complete.


      4.2.1.3. Penalty: 2%

   4.2.2. Measure 2: Documentation / Reports are submitted timely and with minimal errors.


      4.2.2.1. Surveillance:  The COR will perform periodic inspections to determine whether documentation / reports are submitted within
      specified time limits and whether quality of documentation / reports is acceptable.


      4.2.2.2. Acceptable performance level: At least 98% of Documentation / Reports are to be submitted within 5 working days of completion of
      the respective project / task.  All documentation shall be accurate and complete.


      4.2.2.3. Penalty: 1%

4.3.0. Performance Objective:  Timely closeout of incident tickets.


   4.3.1. Measure 1:  All trouble calls shall be tracked through issue resolution and closeout using the designated Incident Ticket Tracking
   System.


      4.3.1.1. Surveillance:  The COR will run weekly reports from the designated Incident Ticket Tracking System application to verify proper
      ticket closeout procedures are followed.


      4.3.1.2. Acceptable performance level: 98% of incident tickets shall be closed within 24 hours of issue resolution.


      4.3.1.3. Penalty: 2%


5.0.0. The table below summarizes the performance factors, APL’s, and penalties.

|Surveillance Activity Checklist- summary table                                                                                                              |
|Category      |Performance metric /         |Goal              |Acceptable Performance level (APL)   |Surveillance method(s) used to |Monthly penalty /      |
|              |Evaluation Factor            |                  |                                     |determine performance level    |deduction if APL is not|
|              |                             |                  |                                     |                               |met                    |
|IT Support    |Provide timely support to    |100%              |At least 95% of incident calls       |Periodic inspections           |2%                     |
|              |customers.                   |                  |received during the hours of         |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |operation stated in the PWS section  |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |2.1 are responded to within the      |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |stated time limits.                  |                               |                       |
|              |Timely completion of assigned|All Projects /    |At least 90% of assigned projects /  |Periodic inspections           |2%                     |
|              |projects and tasks.          |tasks completed   |tasks are completed by due date.     |                               |                       |
|              |                             |within designated |                                     |                               |                       |
|              |                             |time frame        |                                     |                               |                       |
|              |Required documentation /     |Submitted on time |98% of documentation / reports are   |Periodic inspections           |1%                     |
|              |reports                      |                  |submitted to the COTR within 5 days  |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |of project / task completion         |                               |                       |
|              |Closing incident tickets     |Close all         |98% of incident tickets shall be     |Weekly reports from the        |2%                     |
|              |                             |completed tickets |closed within 24 hours of issue      |designated Incident Ticket     |                       |
|              |                             |                  |resolution                           |Tracking System                |                       |

6.0.0. Documentation

6.0.1. The COR will, in addition to providing documentation to the KO, maintain a complete Quality Assurance file.  The file will contain copies
of all reports, evaluations, recommendations, and any actions related to the Government’s performance of the quality assurance function,
including the originals of all Surveillance Activity Checklists.  All such records will be retained for the life of this contract.  The COR
shall forward these records to the KO at termination or completion of the contract.

Present/Past Performance Questionnaire



REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL:  SP3300-12-R-0036



The RFP has been issued to determine the most efficient and cost effective provider for this procurement.  The place of performance for contract start up is DLA Information Operations Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania and the customers for this contract are DLA Information Operations located at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania.  



The Requirements covered under this acquisition include, but are not limited to: Information Technology Support Services for DLA Information Operations Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania.



Questionnaire Instructions

The questionnaire covers the topics that are in line with the Contractor Performance Assessment Report (CPARs).  This questionnaire is designed to provide basic information regarding the Contractor’s past performance results on the contracts they have been awarded and your satisfaction with their performance.  The format of the questionnaire follows a five-point scale with five being Exceptional and 1 being Unsatisfactory. 



RATERS PLEASE NOTE:  



Per DOD policy, a fundamental principle of assigning ratings is that contractors will not be assessed a lower than Satisfactory rating solely for not performing beyond the requirement of the contract.   



Please use the following guide in preparing your response to the below questions:  



Dark Blue/Exceptional – RATING OF 5

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.

NOTE:  To justify an Exceptional rating, identify multiple significant events and state how they were a benefit to the Government.  A singular benefit, however, could be of such magnitude that it alone constitutes an Exceptional rating.  Also there should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.



Purple/Very Good – RATING OF 4

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor was effective. 

NOTE:  To justify a Very Good rating, identify a significant event and state how it was a benefit to the Government.  There should have been no significant weaknesses identified.






Green/Satisfactory – RATING OF 3

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear to be or were satisfactory.  

NOTE:  To justify a Satisfactory rating, there should have been only minor problems, or major problems the contractor recovered from without impact to the contract.  There should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.  



Yellow/Marginal – RATING OF 2

Definition:  Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented.

NOTE:  To justify Marginal performance, identify a significant event in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A Marginal rating should be supported by referencing the management tool that notified the contractor of the contractual deficiency (e.g. management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency report or letter).



Red/Unsatisfactory – RATING OF 1 

Definition:  Performance does not meet MOST contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains a serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective.

NOTE:  To justify an Unsatisfactory rating, identify multiple significant events in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A singular problem, however, could be of such serious magnitude that it alone constitutes an unsatisfactory rating.  An Unsatisfactory rating should be supported by referencing the management tools used to notify the contractor of the contractual deficiencies (e.g., management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency reports, or letters).



How would you rate this contractor past performance using the following number scale, please ensure that you use the definitions above when assigning a numerical rating.  In addition, please provide a justification for rating given if above or below satisfactory.  Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:





QUALITY OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE:



Justification for Rating:  





DELIVERY OR SCHEDULE:



Justification for Rating:  







COST CONTROL: 

 



Justification for Rating:  





BUSINESS RELATIONS:



Justification for Rating:  







MANAGEMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL:



Justification for Rating:  



UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS:  (ONLY APPLICABLE TO LARGE BUSINESS CONTRACTORS)

 

Justification for Rating:  



ANY ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, i.e., SAFETY, SECURITY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE, MAINTENANCE OF GFE, etc.: 



Justification for Rating:  







Please provide a brief description of the services/supplies provided under the contract administered by your organization:  





 

Given what you know today, would you recommend award of this contractor?

 





How would you rate this contractor’s past performance using the following number scale?  In addition, please provide a justification for rating given if above or below mostly.  Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:





Meets Most Acceptable Performance Levels (APLs) and/or Contract Quality Standards



Justification: 



Responds to Complaints in a Timely Manner



Justification:

Disputes the Scope of the Requirement



Justification:



Submits Reasonable Price Proposals on Contract Changes



Justification:



Has Problems with Payroll, Paying for Supplies, or Subcontractors



Justification:



Difficult When Negotiating Changes



Justification:



Pro-actively Anticipates, Avoids or Mitigates Problems



Justification:



Billing is Timely, Accurate and Complete



Justification:





Please provide any additional information regarding this contractor’s performance, if applicable:



 

Evaluator:  Company/Organization Name/Address

_____________________________________________________________________________

Evaluator’s Name: ______________________________________________________________

Evaluator’s Telephone Number:  ___________________________________________________





Name of Company Evaluated:___________________________________________________



Dark Blue   

Purple 

Green 

Yellow 

Red 

Exceptional

Very Good

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory



YES

NO



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

Never



Always

Almost Always

Mostly

Seldom

NeverSOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 0046116564 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER SP3300-12-R-0036

PAGE 1 OF 46

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE 2012 JUN 22 8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME 2012 JUL 30 03:00 PM

a. NAME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect calls) Phone: 717-770-4503 SP3300 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED OR SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS NAICS: 541513 SIZE STANDARD: 25.5 M

Genesis Griffin PNNAB59 CODE

% FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

DLA DISTRIBUTION OFFICE OF PROCUREMENT - EBS 2001 MISSION DRIVE NEW CUMBERLAND PA 17070-5000 USA

11. DELIVERYFOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED

12. DISCOUNT TERMS 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) CODE 16. ADMINISTERED BY

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

8 (A)

SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO

RFP

SEE SCHEDULE 17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

PAS: None

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED OFFER SEE ADDENDUM 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES See Schedule 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or Print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or Print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005)
Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 33. SHIP NUMBER 34. VOUCHER NUMBER 36. PAYMENT COMPLETE 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY PARTIAL FINAL 37. CHECK NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

PARTIAL

FINAL

38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK





 




1. This Request for Proposal (RFP) is being issued to establish a Firm-Fixed Price (FFP) performance based service contract for a one (1) base year and two (2) one-year Option periods, or for a total of (3) years. This requirement is for Information Technology Support Services for DLA Information Operations at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania 2. The solicitation is being issued as a Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside and will be restricted to Service Disabled Veteran-Owned small businesses. The applicable NAICS code is 541513 with a small business size standard of $25.5 million. 3. 4. This acquisition is a new requirement and is not a follow-on contract. Period of Performance (PoP) for this acquisition is anticipated to be as follows

Base Year (Full Performance): On or about 1 October 2012 ­ 30 September 2013 (1 Year) Option Year One (1): On or about 1 October 2013 ­ 30 September 2014 (1 Year) Option Year Two (2) On or about 1 October 2014 ­ 30 September 2015 (1 Year) 5. Central Contractor Registration (CCR): As stated in the referenced FAR 52.212-1, Instruction to offeror, Paragraph (k), a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance, and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. Offerors may obtain information on registration and approval confirmation via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or (269) 961-5757. 6. Invoicing Instructions: Invoices shall be submitted on a monthly basis to the Contract Specialist. The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) will verify that the programs/services have been completed, certify the invoice, and return the invoice to the Contract Specialist for final processing. INSTRUCTION FOR PAYMENT BY DFAS (a)The contract/order will be paid by DFAS. (b)Invoices for supply contracts shall be submitted at time goods are shipped. (c)Invoices for service contracts shall be submitted in accordance with instructions provided in the contract/order. (d)At a minimum, each invoice shall include the following information: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) {6) Contractor's name, address, and CAGE code; Invoice date and invoice number; Contract number/ Order number; Contract Line Item Number(s) (CLIN(s)); CLIN description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended total prices; Additional information required by the Prompt Payment Act at FAR 52.232-25.

(e) Unless indicated elsewhere in the contract/order, invoices shall be faxed or emailed to the Contract Specialist. (Email: genesis.griffin@dla.mil/ Fax: 717-770-7244) (f) In accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (FAR 52.232-25), payment will normally be made within thirty (30) days after receipt of proper invoice or acceptance of supplies/services, whichever is later. All inquiries regarding payments shall be directed to: DFAS ATTN: PO BOX 369016 DFAS-CVDAAD/CO

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Columbus, OH 43236-9016 Email: DFAS-CO_LC@dfas.mil Phone: 800-756-4571 - (Select option 2 twice)

(g)Check payment status on the web at www.dod.mil/dfas under "Money Matters." 7. FAR 1.602-1 - Contracting Officers Authority (a) Contracting officers have authority to enter into, administer, or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings. Contracting officers may bind the Government only to the extent of the authority delegated to them. Contracting officers shall receive from the appointing authority (see 1.603-1) clear instructions in writing regarding the limits of their authority. Information on the limits of the contracting officers' authority shall be readily available to the public and agency personnel. (b) No contract shall be entered into unless the Contracting Officer ensures that all requirements of law, executive orders, regulations, and all other applicable procedures, including clearances and approvals, have been met. 8. All offerors shall submit their proposals on a signed SF 1449. The contractor shall include past performance and technical information in the offer. 9. Proposals must be hand delivered or mailed only to the following address: DLA Distribution Acquisition Operations 2001 Mission Drive, J-Ave, Building 404 Attn: Genesis Griffin (J7) New Cumberland, PA 17070-5000 For FedEx and UPS deliveries, please use the following address: DLA Distribution Acquisition Operations Attn: Genesis Griffin J Avenue, Building 404 J7 (DDC-AB) New Cumberland, PA 17070-5000 Note: If packages are sent by commercial carrier, the package must be plainly marked ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE COHMERCIAL CARRIER'S ENVELOPE with the Solicitation number, date, and time set forth for receipt of offers as indicated in Blocks 5 and 8, Page 1 of the SF 1449. At this time, only FedEx and UPS provide express delivery to the office listed above. Offers must be received by 30 July 2012 by 15:00 Eastern Local Time to be considered for award. Offerors shall email the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin at genesis.griffin@dla.mil the method in which they will be submitting their proposal and provide any associated tracking information. If an offeror intends to hand delivery their proposal, the offeror must contact the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin, via email at least one (1) week prior to the submission deadline to coordinate delivery. 10. Questions regarding this solicitation should be emailed to the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin at genesis.griffin@dla.mil by 15:00 Eastern Local Time on 09 July 2012. Questions not received via electronic mail may not be answered. 11. Accessibility of Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) products to people with disabilities

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act): Unless otherwise specified, all products (supplies or services) furnished under this contract shall comply with the applicable E&IT Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR Part 1194. 12. The Government is not soliciting for the "same old way" of doing business. The Government encourages proposals that will achieve savings through innovative processes. Furthermore, DLA Distribution personnel are working to eliminate unnecessary requirements and negotiate price reduction forsupplies and services. Your assistance is requested in achieving these goals.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




SUPPLIES/SERVICES: D301-V00006569 ITEM DESCRIPTION: Base Year Contract Line Item Number (CLIN 0001) is for Information Operations at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania in accordance with Anticipated Period of Performance (PoP) is one (1) year, performance is in accordance with paragraph 2.2.1, Place Statement (PWS). CLIN 0001 is subject to the availability of funds. Technology (IT) Support Services for DLA Information Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement (PWS). 1 October 2012 through 30 September 2013. Place of of Performance, Attachment 1, Performance Work

ITEM NO. 0001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY D301-V00006569 IT 1 SUPPORT SERVICES FULL PERFORMANCE

UNIT YR

UNIT PRICE AMOUNT . $ ________________ $ ________________

PRICING TERMS: Firm Fixed Price PREP FOR DELIVERY: See attached Performance Work Statement (PWS)

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE: 10/01/2012 - 09/30/2013 SHIP TO: N/A

SUPPLIES/SERVICES: D301-V00006569 ITEM DESCRIPTION: Option Year 1 Contract Line Item Number (CLIN 1001) is for Information Operations at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania in accordance with Anticipated Period of Performance (PoP) is one (1) year, performance is in accordance with paragraph 2.2.1, Place Statement (PWS). CLIN 1001 is subject to the availability of funds. Technology (IT) Support Services for DLA Information Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement (PWS). 1 October 2013 through 30 September 2014. Place of of Performance, Attachment 1, Performance Work

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




SUPPLY/SERVICE: D301-V00006569 CONT'D ITEM NO. 1001 SUPPLIES/SERVICES D301-V00006569 IT SUPPORT SERVICES -LABOR QUANTITY 1 UNIT YR UNIT PRICE AMOUNT . $ ________________ $ ________________

PRICING TERMS: Firm Fixed Price This line item is an option in accordance with the terms and conditions of the solicitation/award. PREP FOR DELIVERY: See attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE: 10/01/2013 - 09/30/2014 SHIP TO: N/A

SUPPLIES/SERVICES: D301-V00006569 ITEM DESCRIPTION: Option Year 2 Contract Line Item Number (CLIN 2001) is for Information Operations at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania in accordance with Anticipated Period of Performance (PoP) is one (1) year, performance is in accordance with paragraph 2.2.1, Place Statement (PWS). CLIN 2001 is subject to the availability of funds. Technology (IT) Support Services for DLA Information Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement (PWS). 1 October 2014 through 30 September 2015. Place of of Performance, Attachment 1, Performance Work

ITEM NO. 2001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES D301-V00006569 IT SUPPORT SERVICES -LABOR

QUANTITY 1

UNIT YR

UNIT PRICE AMOUNT . $ ________________ $ ________________

PRICING TERMS: Firm Fixed Price This line item is an option in accordance with the terms and conditions of the solicitation/award. PREP FOR DELIVERY: See attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE: 10/01/2014 - 09/30/2015 SHIP TO: N/A

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




SUPPLY/SERVICE: D301-V00006569 CONT'D

GOVT USE ITEM 0001 1001 2001 PR 0046116564 N/A N/A PRLI 0001 N/A N/A External PR N/A N/A N/A External PRLI N/A N/A N/A External Material N/A N/A N/A Customer RDD/ Need Ship Date 06/04/2012 N/A N/A .

*****************************************************************************************

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Part 12 Clauses CLAUSES ADDED TO PART 12 BY ADDENDUM Contract Clauses - Addendum to FAR 52.212-4

ILLEGAL ITEMS NOT AUTHORIZED ON FEDERAL INSTALLATION Illegal drugs, guns or other contraband are not authorized on this Federal installation. It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that their employees working on-site at this installation are U.S. citizens or legal aliens with no outstanding warrants. This installation is manned by a DoD Police Force who possesses apprehension authority, which includes holding suspects for local authorities. The local authorities can issue a citation that charges the individual with a specific offense and requires the individual to appear before a Federal Magistrate. This agency processes illegal aliens in accordance with INS instructions. MARK CONTRACT NUMBER ON ALL CORRESPONDENCE Contractor must mark the Contract or Purchase Order number on all paperwork and shipments. The Order number must appear on the exterior of the shipment. Failure to follow these instructions will hold up payment t o you and could result in the return of merchandise at your expense. MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES The Contractor personnel are employees of the Contractor and under the administrative control and supervision of the Contractor. The Contractor, through its personnel, shall perform the tasks prescribed in the Performance Work Statement/Statement of Work. The Contractor shall select, supervise, and exercise control and direction over its employees under this contract. The Contractor shall not supervise, direct, or control the activities of the Government personnel or the employee of any other Contractor, except any subcontractor employed by the Contractor on this contract. The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor in the performance of contractual services under this contract. The Contractor is accountable to the Government for the actions of its personnel. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST (a) The Contractor shall be ineligible from participation as a Contractor, subcontractor, or consultant in any procurement arising or resulting from any of the services provided t o DDC on this contract. This restriction includes providing services to any potential bidders on such procurements. The Contractor shall not incorporate its product or services in any Statement of Work or specification unless directed to do so in writing by the Contracting Officer. (b) If the Contractor in the performance of this contract, obtains access to information such as plans, policies, reports, studies, financial data, internal data, or any other non-public information or information by the Privacy Act, the Contractor agrees not to release such information without prior written approval from the Contracting Officer. The use of such information for personal gain is prohibited.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(c) In addition, the Contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with any restrictions imposed on such information.

THE FOLLOWING CLAUSES ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: FAR 52.203-12, Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain F e d e r a l Transactions (OCT 2010) FAR 52.204-2, Security Requirements (AUG 1996) FAR 52.204-4, Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (MAY 2011) FAR 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011) FAR 52.215-21, Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data ­ Modifications Alternate IV (OCT 2010) FAR 52.216-11, Cost Contract ­ No Fee (APR 1984) (Applicable to CLINs 0003 and 1002 only) FAR 52.223-5, Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (MAY 2011) FAR 52.223-10, Waste Reduction Program (MAY 2011) FAR 52.228-5, Insurance ­ Work on a Government Installation (JAN 1997) FAR 52.242-13, Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) DFARS 252.209-7004, Subcontracting with Firms That Are Owned or Controlled by the Government of a Terrorist Country (DEC 2006) DFARS 252.204-7003, Control of Government Personnel Work Product (APR 1992) DFARS 252.232-7010, Levies on Contract Payments (DEC 2006)

THE FOLLOWING CLAUSES ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT:

FAR 52.217-9, OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed three (3) years. (End of Clause) FAR 52.232-18, AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS (APR 1984) Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government's obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause)

FAR 52.252-2, CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://farsite.hill.af.mil (End of Clause) DFARS 252.201-7000, CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 1991) (a) Definition. "Contracting officer's representative" means an individual designated in accordance with subsection 201.602-2 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions. (b) If the Contracting Officer designates a contracting officer's representative (COR), the Contractor will receive a copy of the written designation. It will specify the extent of the COR's authority to act on behalf of the contracting officer. The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or changes that will affect price, quality, quantity, delivery, or any other term or condition of the contract. (End of clause) (Revised April 20, 2012) DLAD 52.204-9000, CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (MAR 2012) a) Work to be performed under this contract or task order may, in full or in part, be performed at the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Headquarters (HQ) or other DLA field activity office(s), with physical access to a Federally-controlled facility. Prior to beginning work on a contract, DLA and its field activity offices require all contractor personnel working on the Federally-controlled facility to have a favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI) or NACI equivalent. (b) Additionally, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Programs, and DLA Issuance 4314, Personnel Security Program, all DoD Contractor personnel who have access to Federallycontrolled information systems must be assigned to positions which are designated at one of three information technology (IT) levels, each requiring a certain level of investigation and clearance, as follows: (1) IT-I for an IT position requiring a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) or SSBI equivalent; (2) IT-II for an IT position requiring a National Agency Check with Law and Credit (NACLC) or NACLC equivalent; and (3) IT-III for an IT position requiring a NACI or equivalent. Note: IT levels will be designated according to the criteria in DoD 5200.2-R. (c) Previously completed security investigations may be accepted by the Government in lieu of new investigations if determined by the DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office to be essentially equivalent in scope to the contract requirements. The length of time elapsed since the previous investigation will also be considered in determining whether a new investigation is warranted. To assist the Government in making this determination, the Contractor must provide the following information to the respective DLA Personnel Security Office immediately upon receipt of the contract. This information must be provided for each Contractor employee who will perform work on a Federally-controlled facility and/or will require access to Federally-controlled information systems: (1) Full name, with middle name, as applicable, with social security number; (2) Citizenship status with date and place of birth;

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(3) Proof of the individual's favorably adjudicated background investigation or NACI, consisting of identification of the type of investigation performed, date of the favorable adjudication, and name of the agency that performed the investigation; (4) Company name, address, phone and fax numbers with email address; (5) Location of on-site workstation or phone number if off-site (if known by the time of award); and (6) Delivery order or contract number and expiration date; and name of the Contracting Officer. (d) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor is notified as soon as a determination is made by the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office regarding acceptance of the previous investigation and clearance level. (1) If a new investigation is deemed necessary, the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be notified by the respective DLA Personnel Security Office after appropriate checks in DoD databases have been made. (2) If the Contractor employee requires access to classified information and currently does not have the appropriate clearance level and/or an active security clearance, the DLA Personnel Security Office will relay this information to the Contractor and Contracting Officer for further action. (3) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the respective DLA Personnel Security Office initiates the investigation for the required clearance level(s) of the Contractor personnel. (4) It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that adequate information is provided and that each Contractor employee completes the appropriate paperwork, as required either by the Contracting Officer or the DLA Personnel Security Office, in order to begin the investigation process for the required clearance level. (e) The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that each Contractor employee assigned to the position has the appropriate security clearance level. (f) The Contractor shall submit each request for IT access and investigation through the contracting officer to the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office. Requests shall include the following information and/or documentation: (1) Standard Form (SF) 85, Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or the SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions (see note below); (2) Proof of citizenship (i.e., an original or a certified copy of a birth certificate, passport, or naturalization certificate); and (3) Form FD-258, fingerprint card (however, fingerprinting can be performed by the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office). (Note to (f)(1) above: An investigation request is facilitated through use of the SF 85 or the SF 86. These forms with instructions as well as the Optional Form (OF) 306, Declaration for Federal Employment, which is required with submission of the SF85 or SF 86, are available at the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) system called Electronic ­ Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Hard copies of the SF85 and SF86 are available at OPM's web-site, www.opm.gov, but hard copies of the forms are not accepted.) (g) Required documentation, listed above in paragraphs (f) (1) through (3), must be provided by the Contractor as directed by the Contracting Officer to the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office at the time of fingerprinting or prior to the DLA Security Office releasing the investigation to the Office of Personnel Management.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(h) Upon completion of the NACI, NACLC, SSBI, or other sufficient, appropriate investigation, the results of the investigation will be forwarded by the office performing the investigation to either the appropriate adjudication facility for eligibility determination or the DLA Intelligence Security Division for review and determination regarding the applicant's suitability to occupy an unescorted entry position in performance of the DLA contract. Contractor personnel shall not commence work on this effort until the investigation has been favorably adjudicated or has been waived into the position pending completion of adjudication. The DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office will ensure that results of investigations will be sent by the office performing the investigation to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) or DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office. (i) A waiver for an IT-I or IT-II position to allow assignment of an individual Contractor employee to commence work prior to completion of the investigation may be granted in emergency situations when it is determined that a delay would be harmful to national security. A request for waiver will be considered only after the Government is in receipt of the individual Contractor employee's completed forms. The request for a waiver must be approved by the Commander/Director or an authorized representative of the site. The cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office reserves the right to determine whether a waiver request will be forwarded for processing, however, there will be no waiver for an IT-III position. The individual Contractor employee for which the waiver is being requested may not be assigned to a position, that is, physically work at the Federally-controlled facility and/or be granted access to Federally-controlled information systems, until the waiver has been approved. (j) The requirements of this clause apply to the prime Contractor and any subcontractors the prime Contractor may employ during the course of this contract, as well as any temporary employees that may be hired by the Contractor. The Government retains the right to request removal of Contractor personnel, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status whose actions, while assigned to this contract, who are determined by the Contracting Officer to conflict with the interests of the Government. If such removal occurs, the Contractor shall assign qualified personnel, with the required investigation, to any vacancy. (k) All Contractor personnel who are granted access to Government and/or Federally-controlled information systems shall observe all local automated information system (AIS) security policies and procedures as provided by the DLA site Information Systems Security Officer. Violations of local AIS security policy, such as password sharing, performing personal work, file access violations, or browsing files outside the scope of the contract, will result in removal of the Contractor employee from Government property and referral to the Contractor for appropriate disciplinary action. Actions taken by the Contractor in response to a violation will be evaluated and will be reflected in the Contractor's performance assessment for use in making future source selection decisions. In addition, based on the nature and extent of any violations of AIS security policy, the Government will consider whether it needs to pursue any other actions under the contract such as a possible termination. (l) The Contractor is also required to obtain a common access card (CAC) for each contractor employee in accordance with procedures established at the DLA HQ or field activity office. When a CAC is required, the Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor follows the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12. (m) Contractor personnel must additionally receive operations security (OPSEC) and information security (INFOSEC) awareness training. The DLA annual OPSEC refresher training and DLA annual INFOSEC training will satisfy these requirements and are available through the DLA Intelligence Office. (n) When a Contractor employee who has been granted a clearance is removed from the contract, the Contractor shall provide an appropriately trained substitute who has met or will meet the investigative requirements of this clause. The substitute may not begin work on the contract without written documentation, signed by the Contracting Officer, stating that the new Contractor employee has met one of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), or (i) of this clause, (i.e., acceptance of a previously completed security investigation, satisfactory completion of a new investigation, or a waiver allowing work to begin pending completion of an investigation). Contractor individual employees removed from this contract as a result of a violation of local AIS security policy are removed for the duration of the contract. (o) The Contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing, within 12 hours, when a Contractor employee working on this contract resigns, is reassigned, terminated or no longer requires admittance to the Federally-controlled facility or
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




access to Federally-controlled information systems. When the Contractor employee departs, the Contractor will relay departure information to the cognizant DLA Security Office so appropriate databases can be updated. The Contractor will ensure each departed employee has completed the DLA J6 Out-Processing Checklist, when applicable, for the necessary security briefing, has returned any Government-furnished equipment, returned the DoD CAC and DLA (or equivalent) badge, returned any DoD or DLA vehicle decal, and requested deletion of local area network account with a prepared Department of Defense (DD) form 2875. The Contractor will be responsible for any costs involved for failure to complete the out-processing, including recovery of Government property and investigation involved. (p) These Contractor security requirements do not excuse the Contractor from meeting the delivery schedule set forth in the contract, or waive the delivery schedule in any way. The Contractor shall meet the required delivery schedule unless the contracting officer grants a waiver or extension. (q) The Contractor shall not bill for personnel, who are not working on the contract while that Contractor employee's clearance investigation is pending. (End of Clause) DLAD 52.204-9002, SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES STATEMENT (MAR 2012) Full text of all Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive (DLAD) clauses listed within this individual solicitation are contained in the Part 52 ­ Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses, current version found at http://www.dla.mil/Acquisition. Also, the full text of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)/Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clauses incorporated by reference may be accessed. (End of Clause) DLAD 52.228-9000, INSURANCE (NOV 2011) a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire period of any resulting contract, including any extensions granted by contract modification, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance noted here: (1) Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability - $150,000 (except in states with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers' compensation to be written by private carriers.) (2) General Liability- $500,000 per occurrence (3) Automobile Liability ­ Property damage $20,000 per occurrence, bodily injury $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence. (b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall provide a copy of all subcontractors' proofs of required insurance no later than five (5) days before each subcontractor commences work on the Government installation. (End of Clause) DLAD 52.247-9012, REQUIREMENTS FOR TREATMENT OF WOOD PACKAGING MATERIAL (WPM) (FEB 2007) a) This clause only applies when wood packaging material (WPM) will be used to make shipments under this contract. and/or when WPM is being acquired under this contract." (b) Definition. Wood packaging material (WPM) means wood pallets, skids, load boards, pallet collars, wooden boxes, reels, dunnage, crates, frame and cleats. The definition excludes materials that have undergone a manufacturing process, such as corrugated fiberboard, plywood, particleboard, veneer, and oriented strand board (OSD). (c) All wood packaging material (WPM) used to make shipments under Department of Defense (DOD) contracts and/or acquired by DOD must meet requirements of international standards for phytosanitary measures (ISPM) 15, "Guidelines for Regulating Wood Packaging Materials in International Trade." DOD shipments inside and outside of the United States must meet ISPM 15 whenever WPM is used to ship DOD cargo. (1) All WPM shall comply with the official quality control program for heat treatment (HT) or kiln dried heat treatment (KD HT) in accordance with American Lumber Standard Committee, Incorporated (ALSC) wood packaging material program and WPM enforcement regulations (see http://www.alsc.org/). (2) All WPM shall include certification/quality markings in accordance with the ALSC standard. Markings shall be placed in an unobstructed area that will be readily visible to inspectors. Pallet markings shall be applied to the stringer or block on diagonally opposite sides of the pallet and be contrasting and clearly visible. All containers shall be marked on a side other than the top or bottom, contrasting and clearly visible. All dunnage used in configuring and/or securing the load shall also comply with ISPM 15 and be marked with an ASLC approved dunnage stamp.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(d) Failure to comply with the requirements of this restriction may result in refusal, destruction, or treatment of materials at the point of entry. The Agency reserves the right to recoup from the Contractor any remediation costs incurred by the Government." (End of Clause) FAR 52.212-5, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2012) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X__ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). _X__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). __X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government' Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ _ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). ___ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Public Law 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ___ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (11) [Reserved] ___ (12) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). ___ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). ___ (13) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X__ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (15) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4).) ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9. ___ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)).
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




_X__ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (19) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ___ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). _X__ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f). _X__ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ___ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ___ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __X_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). ___ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). __X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). __X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). __X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X__ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X__ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X__ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X__ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (35) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (37) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. _X__ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011). ___ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ___ (40) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, and 112-42). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (May 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




___ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __X_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (51) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). ___ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause) DFARS 252.212-7001, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO DEFENSE ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2012) (a) The Contractor agrees to comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause which, if checked, is included in this contract by reference to implement a provision of law applicable to acquisitions of commercial items or components. __X__ 52.203-3, Gratuities (APR 1984) (10 U.S.C. 2207). (b) The Contractor agrees to comply with any clause that is checked on the following list of Defense FAR Supplement clauses which, if checked, is included in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items or components. (1) ____ 252.203-7000, Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (SEP 2011) (Section 847 of Pub. L. 110-181). 2) __X___252.203-7003, Agency Office of the Inspector General (APR 2012)(section 6101 of Pub. L. 110-252, 41 U.S.C. 3509). (3) ____ 252.205-7000, Provision of Information to Cooperative Agreement Holders (DEC 1991) (10 U.S.C. 2416). (4) ____ 252.219-7003, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DoD Contracts) (SEP 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637). (5) ____ 252.219-7004, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Test Program) (JAN 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637 note). (6)(i) ____ 252.225-7001, Buy American Act and Balance of Payments Program OCT 2011) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, E.O. 10582). (ii) ____Alternate I (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7001. (7) ____ 252.225-7008, Restriction on Acquisition of Specialty Metals (JUL 2009)(10 U.S.C. 2533b).
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(8) ____ 252.225-7009, Restriction on Acquisition of Certain Articles Containing Specialty Metals (JAN 2011) (10 U.S.C. 2533b). (9) ___X_ 252.225-7012, Preference for Certain Domestic Commodities (JUN 2010) (10 U.S.C. 2533a). (10) ____ 252.225-7015, Restriction on Acquisition of Hand or Measuring Tools (JUN 2005) (10 U.S.C. 2533a). (11) ____ 252.225-7016, Restriction on Acquisition of Ball and Roller Bearings (JUN 2011) (Section 8065 of Pub. L. 107-117 and the same restriction in subsequent DoD appropriations acts). (12) _____252.225-7017, Photovoltaic Devices (MAY 2012) (Section 846 of Pub. L. 111-383). (13)(i) ____ 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements (MAY 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501-2518 and 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). (ii) ____ Alternate I (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7021. (iii) ____Alternate II (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7021. (14) ____ 252.225-7027, Restriction on Contingent Fees for Foreign Military Sales (APR 2003) (22 U.S.C. 2779). (15) ____ 252.225-7028, Exclusionary Policies and Practices of Foreign Governments (APR 2003) (22 U.S.C. 2755). (16)(i) ____ 252.225-7036, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements-- Balance of Payments Program (MAY 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83 and 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). (ii)___ Alternate I (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7036. (iii) ___ Alternate II (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7036. (iv) ___ Alternate III (OCT 2011) of 252.225-7036. (v) ___ Alternate IV (MAY 2012) of 252.225-7036. (vi) ___ Alternate V (MAY 2012) of 252.225-7036. (17) ____ 252.225-7038, Restriction on Acquisition of Air Circuit Breakers (JUN 2005) (10 U.S.C. 2534(a)(3)). (18) ____ 252.225-7039, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions (AUG 2011) (Section 862 of Pub. L. 110-181, as amended by section 853 of Pub. L. 110-417 and sections 831 and 832 of Pub. L. 111-383). (19) __X__ 252.226-7001, Utilization of Indian Organizations, Indian-Owned Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns (SEP 2004) (Section 8021 of Pub. L. 107-248 and similar sections in subsequent DoD appropriations acts). (20) ____ 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data--Noncommercial Items (FEB 2012), if applicable (see 227.7103-6(a)). (21) ____ 252.227-7015, Technical Data--Commercial Items (DEC 2011) (10 U.S.C. 2320). (22) ____ 252.227-7037, Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data (SEP 2011), if applicable (see 227.7102-4(c). (23) ___X_ 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (MAR 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2227). (24) ____ 252.237-7010, Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel (NOV 2010) (Section 1038 of Pub. L. 111-84) (25) ____ 252.237-7019, Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees (SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Pub. L. 108-375). (26) __X__ 252.243-7002, Requests for Equitable Adjustment (MAR 1998) (10 U.S.C. 2410). (27) ____252.246-7004, Safety of Facilities, Infrastructure, and Equipment For Military Operations (OCT 2010) (Section 807 of Pub. L. 111-84). (28) ____ 252.247-7003, Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (SEP 2010) (Section 884 of Pub. L. 110-417). (29)(i) ____ 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (ii) ____ Alternate I (MAR 2000) of 252.247-7023. (iii) ____ Alternate II (MAR 2000) of 252.247-7023. (iv) ____ Alternate III (MAY 2002) of 252.247-7023. (30) ____ 252.247-7024, Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (31) ____ 252.247-7027, Riding Gang Member Requirements (OCT 2011)
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(Section 3504 of Pub. L. 110-417). (c) In addition to the clauses listed in paragraph (e) of the Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items clause of this contract (FAR 52.212-5), the Contractor shall include the terms of the following clauses, if applicable, in subcontracts for commercial items or commercial components, awarded at any tier under this contract: (1) 252.225-7039, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions (AUG 2011) (Section 862 of Pub. L. 110181, as amended by section 853 of Pub. L. 110-417 and sections 831 and 832 of Pub. L. 111-383). (2) 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data--Noncommercial Items (FEB 2012), if applicable (see 227.7103-6(a)). (3) 252.227-7015, Technical Data--Commercial Items (DEC 2011), if applicable (see 227.7102-4(a)). (4) 252.227-7037, Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data (SEP 2011), if applicable (see 227.7102-4(c)). (5) 252.237-7010, Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel (NOV 2010) (Section 1038 of Pub. L. 111-84). (6) 252.237-7019, Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees (SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Pub. L. 108-375). (7) 252.247-7003, Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (SEP 2010) (Section 884 of Pub. L. 110-417). (8) 252.247-7023, Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C 2631). (9) 252.247-7024, Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631). (End of clause)
Attachments List of Attachments Description Attachment 3 - Past Performance Questionnaire Attachment 1 - PWS Attachment 1a - PWS Attachment 5.1 IA Certification Attachment 1b - PWS Attachment 5.2 CE Matrix Attachment 1c - DoD Wireless Instructions Attachment 2 - QASP File Name Attachment 3- Past Performance Questionnaire.docx Attachment 1 PWS.docx Attachment 1a - PWS Attachment 5.1 IA Certification.pdf Attachment 1b - PWS Attachment 5.2 CE Matrix.pdf Attachment 1c - DoD Wireless Instructions.pdf Attachment 2 QASP.doc

Part 12 Provisions PROVISIONS ADDED TO PART 12 BY ADDENDUM Provisions

Addendum to FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items Reference paragraph (c) under referenced provision FAR 52.212-1. This paragraph is tailored to read as follows: (c) Period of acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers. The following paragraphs under referenced provision 52.212-1 are hereby deleted: (d) Product Samples; (e) Multiple Offers; (h) Multiple Awards Instructions to Offerors
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




This acquisition will be negotiated in accordance FAR Subpart 12--Acquisition of Commercial Items and FAR 15-- Contracting By Negotiations. Communications Between the Government and Offerors: Questions regarding this solicitation prior to proposal submission may occur for the purpose of clarifying elements of the solicitation. Questions concerning this solicitation shall be submitted by electronic mail to genesis.griffin@dla.mil, with the subject: Solicitation SP3300-12-R-0036. Offerors shall submit any questions regarding this solicitation in an MS Word Table landscape format with the following column headings: Question RFP Page RFP Paragraph Name of Firm Point of Contact Tel No. Fax No. E-mail

No information concerning this RFP or requests for clarification will be provided in response to offerorinitiated telephone calls. All such requests must be made by electronic mail in the format noted above and submitted to the above email address. Inquiries will be answered in writing and provided to all offerors. To avoid a delay in the procurement process, all questions regarding this RFP must be received by 3:00 p.m. eastern local time on 09 July 2012. Questions received after this date and time will not receive a response. Questions not received via electronic mail may not be answered. Proposal Submission Instructions: The hour and date for receipt of offers is 3:00 p.m. eastern local time on 30 July 2012. HARD COPY OFFERS MUST BE RECEIVED IN THIS OFFICE BY THIS DATE AND TIME. Facsimile and email submissions of proposals will not be accepted. Proposals sent via US Postal Service shall be addressed to the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin and mailed to: DLA Distribution Acquisition Operations 2001 Mission Drive, J-Ave, Building 404 Attn: Genesis Griffin (J7) New Cumberland, PA 17070-5000

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Proposals sent via Commercial Carrier (i.e., FedEx, UPS, etc.) shall be addressed to the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin and mailed to: DLA Distribution Acquisition Operations Attn: Genesis Griffin J Avenue, Building 404 DLA Distribution Acquisition Operations (J7) New Cumberland, PA 17070-5000 Note: If packages are sent by commercial carrier, the package must be plainly marked ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE COMMERCIAL CARRIER'S ENVELOPE with the Solicitation number, date, and time set forth for receipt of offers as indicated in Blocks 5 & 8, Page 1 of the SF 1449. At this time, only FedEx and UPS provide express delivery to the office listed above. Offerors should e-mail the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin (genesis.griffin@dla.mil) the method in which they sent their proposal and any associated tracking information. If the offeror plans to hand deliver the proposal, the offeror shall contact the Contract Specialist via e-mail (genesis.griffin@dla.mil) at least one (1) business day in advance to coordinate the proposal delivery. The packaging of the proposals AND the documents submitted must be clearly marked with the Offeror's Name and solicitation number and the following statement: "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY -- SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION - SEE FAR 2.101 AND FAR 3.104" If an offeror has any questions regarding this solicitation or believes that the requirements in this instruction contains an error or omission, the offeror shall immediately notify the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin (genesis.griffin@dla.mil) in writing in the format provided in Paragraph 1 on Page 4 above. If an offeror believes that the requirements in this instruction are otherwise unsound, the offeror shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer, Joni L. Stephens (joni.stephens@dla.mil), in writing with supporting rationale. The offeror is reminded that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial proposal, as received, without discussions. Submission of a proposal that does not contain all of the items requested may result in elimination from consideration for award. Proposal Preparation Requirements: Organization/Number of Copies/Page Limits: The offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table below. The titles and contents and number of copies required for each volume are defined in this table. Proposals shall be submitted as three (3) separate volumes. TITLE PAPER COPIES VOLUME I Technical Proposal Original & 4 Part 1: Introduction Part 2: Technical Capability (Factor 1) Section 1: Technical Approach (Subfactor (a)) Part 3: Management Capability (Factor 2) Section 1: Management Plan (Subfactor (a)) Section 2: Staffing Plan (Subfactor (b)) Part 4: Quality Control Plan (Factor 3) II Past Performance Proposal (Factor 4) Original & 4 III Price Proposal Original & 1 Page Limitations: There are no page limitations for the proposal volumes. Cross-Referencing: To the greatest extent possible, each volume shall be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with the minimum of cross-referencing to other volumes of the proposal. Information required for proposal evaluation which is not found in its designated volume will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal. Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is permitted where its use would conserve space without impairing clarity.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Indexing: Each volume shall contain a more detailed table of contents to delineate the subparagraphs within that volume. The detailed table of contents is not part of or included in the page limitation. Tab indexing shall be used to identify sections. Any cross-reference matrix table is not part of the page limitation. Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms: Each volume shall contain a glossary of all abbreviations and acronyms used, with an explanation of each. Glossaries do not count against the page limitations for their respective volumes. Page Size and Format: The offeror's proposal shall be prepared on standard 8.5 x 11 inch paper and submitted in three-ring binders. Except for the reproduced sections of the solicitation document and chart labels, the text size shall be no less than 10 point font. Use at least 1-inch margins on the top and bottom and ž inch side margins. Pages shall be numbered sequentially by volume. Legible tables, charts, graphs and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation schedules, plans, etc. These displays shall not exceed 11 X 17 inches in size. Foldout pages shall fold entirely within the volume, and may only be used for large tables, charts graphs, diagrams and schematics. Binding and Labeling: Each volume of the proposal shall be separately bound in a three-ring loose-leaf binder which shall permit the volume to lie flat when open. Staples shall not be used. A cover sheet should be bound in each book, clearly marked as to volume number, title, copy number, solicitation identification and the offer's name. The same identifying data should be placed on the spine of each binder. Offerors are advised to apply all appropriate markings including those prescribed in FAR 3.104-4, Disclosure, Protection and Marking of Contractor Bid or Proposal Information and Source Selection Information. Distribution: The originals shall be clearly identified as the "ORIGINAL", and bear the original signature(s) of the offeror. The "copies" shall be complete and clearly identified as "COPY" or "DUPLICATE". Offerors are advised that the proposal is "For Official Use Only" and are considered "Source Selection Information" ­ See FAR 2.101 & 3.104. Table of Contents: A table of contents for each volume is required. Volume I: Technical Proposal The technical proposal should be written so that information technology oriented personnel can make a thorough evaluation and arrive at a sound determination as to whether the proposal meets the requirements of this solicitation. To this end, the technical proposal shall be specific, detailed and complete as to clearly and fully demonstrate that the prospective contractor has a thorough understanding of the technical requirements contained in the Performance Work Statement (PWS). Statements such as "the offeror understands," "will comply with the statement of work," "standard procedures will be employed," "well known techniques will be used," and general paraphrasing of the PWS are considered inadequate. The technical proposal must provide details concerning what the contractor will do and how it will be done. This includes a full explanation of the techniques, disciplines, and procedures proposed to be followed. The technical proposal shall not contain any reference to price; however, information concerning labor allocation and categories, labor hours, consultants, travel, materials, equipment, and other information of interest to technical reviewers shall be contained in the technical proposal in sufficient detail so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of the work may be adequately evaluated. The technical proposal shall be page numbered, contain a table of contents, be organized in the following parts, and address in detail the following: Introduction (Part 1): This section shall provide any necessary background information and an overview of the proposal which the offeror believes will assist in the understanding and accurate evaluation of the proposal. Technical Capability (Part 2): The Offeror shall provide a detailed discussion of their technical capability in sufficient detail to evidence the offerors understanding of the PWS:
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Technical Approach -- The Offeror shall submit a detailed description of their technical approach to perform each task in the PWS. The Offeror's technical approach must demonstrate an understanding of the requirements in the PWS and the ability to perform all performance tasks and objectives listed in the PWS while maintaining quality and timeliness. This cannot be a mere summary of the requirements stated in the PWS, but rather the Offeror's detailed approach to performing the requirements that clearly demonstrates his understanding of that work. The approach shall also address as a minimum the Offeror's: Knowledge of the content of the work in terms of constituent activities, their inputs and outputs, and their interrelationships and interdependencies. Recognition of the appropriate sequence and realistic duration of the work activities. Familiarity with difficulties and uncertainties associated with the work. Discussion of potential problems, such as increasing utilization and present strategies dealing with them.

Management and Staffing Approach (Part 3): The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of their management approach for the following: Staffing Plan ­ The Offeror shall list, in matrix format, all personnel proposed for assignment as discussed in Section 2.3, Personnel Qualifications and Certifications of the PWS, the labor category that they represent, and the number of hours they are proposing to work during a one year time frame, their years of experience, degree/education, and their personnel qualifications and experience. In addition, the offeror shall submit the following information for personnel: Personnel: The Government has established certain minimum requirements for personnel which are considered essential for contract performance. These minimums are specified in the Personnel Qualifications and Certifications section of the PWS. The Offeror shall provide a listing of personnel and the labor category for which they are proposed. The individuals proposed must meet the qualifications specified for the labor category they are proposed for in accordance with the Personnel Qualifications and Certifications section of the PWS and the Offeror shall certify to this fact. Management Approach ­ The Offeror shall discuss the interrelationships of the technical, on-site team and the business management. All interfaces with the Government must be clearly delineated. The Offeror shall provide a discussion of their organizational structure, policies, procedures, and techniques for efficiently managing the work. Also provide an organizational chart for this contract, identifying all skill set positions by title. The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of the responsibilities and authorities for operation and management of this contract. The Offeror shall include such elements as lines of communication. The discussion shall address the processes for resolving priority conflicts for resources and tasks identified in the PWS. Quality Control Plan (Part 4): Quality Control Plan ­ The Offeror shall provide an initial Quality Control Plan (QCP) in accordance with the PWS with their proposal. The QCP shall include an approach to maintaining acceptable quality standards throughout contract performance. The Offeror shall provide an approach to quality control identifies processes, procedures, and metrics which are likely to predict a high quality product delivered on schedule. The QCP should not be a reiteration of the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP); instead, the QCP should be an approach to how the Offeror will ensure that the Acceptable Performance Levels (APLs) are met. Volume II: Past Performance Proposal

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




The Offeror shall describe their background, knowledge and experience related to Information Technology Support Services. Of particular emphasis is performance that was performed in accordance with the same or similar scope and magnitude that is described in the PWS. Past performance information is used in determining the level of confidence the Government has for successful performance based upon the Offeror's actions under previously awarded, relevant contracts. The Government shall only consider relevant past performance data. To be considered relevant, the Offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of scope, complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, and schedule. The offeror must demonstrate through past performance an ability to perform the work described in the solicitation. This is done by demonstrating that they have successfully executed at least three (3) contracts of similar size, scope and complexity within the past five (5) years. Offerors shall provide a detailed explanation of the relevance of the contracts or efforts to the requirements as defined in the PWS. If subcontractor experience is provided as part of the three (3) most relevant contracts, it will be given weight relative to the percentage of effort being provided by that particular subcontractor in the offer submitted. The references will be evaluated in the aggregate in order to allow Offerors who may not have the entire scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement under one individual contract to still be considered relevant if experience with the full scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement can be demonstrated within the allotted number of references as described above. If an offeror or its subcontractor determines they have no past performance data, they shall provide the following statement in lieu of the information requested below: "(Insert offeror or subcontractor's name) has determined that they possess no past performance information in accordance with the RFP." To be compliant with this factor offerors shall provide the following information for both the offeror and proposed subcontractors. (1) An index of previous contract data for the offeror. The index shall contain three (3) or more PRIME contracts and SUBCONTRACTS that the offeror is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. The index shall include: - Contractor Name - Name of the customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Length of contract - Period of performance (dates) - Initial Contract Price - Final Contract Price or price as of the last modification - Description of product/service provided (include sufficient detail to demonstrate the scope and complexity of the product/service provided) - Discussion of the similarities and differences of experience (include sufficient detail to demonstrate similarities/dissimilarities to the requirements of this solicitation) - Facilities in which the product/service was performed - Quality of Past Performance; to include a discussion of actual performance under each contract listed, including problems encountered; how they were resolved; the timeliness of deliverables required; how costs were controlled; business relationships; management of personnel, and any other areas deemed necessary to provide insight into actual performance issues (2) A narrative synopsis that shall describe the specific nature of the work, similarities with the proposed work and the relevant experience gained. The narrative portion shall also indicate any occurrence of cost growth and/or schedule delays encountered. The appearance of cost growths and/or schedule delays on past contracts must be explained. (3) An index of Previous Contract Data for all subcontractors containing the information listed in (1) above as it relates to PRIME and SUBCONTRACTS that the subcontractor is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. (4) A Past Performance Questionnaire is included as an attachment to this solicitation. Offerors and all subcontractors shall send this questionnaire to previous customers of prime and subcontracts for completion. Completed questionnaires shall be directly submitted by the reference/previous customer by the proposal due date to the Contract Specialist, Genesis Griffin, via email to genesis.griffin@dla.mil. All previous contracts the offeror utilizes for Questionnaire information must be contained in the Previous Contract Data index for the offeror/subcontractor. The offeror/subcontractor
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




shall complete the Previous Contract Data index prior to submitting the questionnaire to the customer. Government evaluation members may contact the named individuals to clarify, obtain additional information, or conduct a telephone survey of past performance. As such, the offeror/subcontractor shall provide a list of all Questionnaires submitted that provides the following information: - Name of the customer/agency - Date submitted to customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Whether the offeror/subcontractor was a Prime or Subcontractor (5) Offerors and their subcontractors may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate technical excellence in the service requested. Examples of such awards or certifications include, the Malcolm Aldridge Quality Award, other Government quality awards, and private sector awards or certifications (e.g., the automobile industries QS 9000, Semitic's SSQA, or ANS/EIA-599). Indicate what segment of the company (division or entire company) received the award or certification and the date. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence the qualifications still apply. The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), responses received from the Performance Risk Assessment Questionnaire, data submitted by the offeror, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the offeror's past performance. Volume III: Price Proposal The offeror shall include the following: Completed Standard Form 1449. Signed acknowledgements of amendment (SF30). (Applicable only if any amendments are issued against this solicitation). Completed certifications and representations located at FAR 52.212-3 and DFARS 252.212-7000, Offeror Representations and Certifications -- Commercial Items. The Contractor's Price Proposal shall be submitted for the period of performance in accordance with the Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) structure as detailed in the Continuation of Supplies and Services. *Offerors must use the CLINs/subCLINs specified in the Schedule of Supplies/Services. It is not permissible for offerors to use offeror created CLINs/subCLINs.* The offeror shall provide the total price for each year and the total price for all years inclusive of all CLINs and subCLINs. The offeror shall provide other than certified cost and pricing data as follows: Labor categories proposed Unburdened and burdened labor rates Number of productive hours proposed per resource Subcontracting Costs: A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of total dollar threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. If the offeror is considered a "major subcontractor", the proposal shall include subcontract cost data in the same level of detail as provided for the offeror. Any subcontracting costs shall be supported. If this information is proprietary to subcontractors, it may be provided under separate cover. However, it must be easily identifiable, readily combined with the rest of the proposal, and received within the timeframe (i.e. closing date) established for this instant solicitation. Price information for subcontractors who do not meet the definition of a "major subcontractor" is NOT being requested and will not be evaluated. THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: DFARS 252.225-7031 Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel (JUN 2005) THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED IN FULL TEXT: FAR 52.215-20 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA ALT IV (OCT 2010) (a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(b) Provide information described below: The offeror shall provide other than certified cost or pricing data as follows: Labor categories proposed; Unburdened and burdened labor rates; Number of productive hours proposed per resource. (End of Provision) FAR 52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984) The Government contemplates award of a single award Firm Fixed Price contract resulting from this solicitation. (End of Provision) FAR 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Joni L. Stephens, Acquisition Operations, DLA Distribution, J Ave, Building 404, New Cumberland PA 17070. (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of Provision)

FAR 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ (End of Provision) DFARS 252.209-7001 DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL BY THE GOVERNMENT OF A TERRORIST COUNTRY (JAN 2009) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- (1) "Government of a terrorist country" includes the state and the government of a terrorist country, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof. (2) "Terrorist country" means a country determined by the Secretary of State, under section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(i)(A)), to be a country the government of which has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. As of the date of this provision, terrorist countries subject to this provision include: Cuba, Iran, Sudan, and Syria.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(3) "Significant interest" means-- (i) Ownership of or beneficial interest in 5 percent or more of the firm's or subsidiary's securities. Beneficial interest includes holding 5 percent or more of any class of the firm's securities in "nominee shares," "street names," or some other method of holding securities that does not disclose the beneficial owner; (ii) Holding a management position in the firm, such as a director or officer; (iii) Ability to control or influence the election, appointment, or tenure of directors or officers in the firm; (iv) Ownership of 10 percent or more of the assets of a firm such as equipment, buildings, real estate, or other tangible assets of the firm; or (v) Holding 50 percent or more of the indebtedness of a firm. (b) Prohibition on award. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2327, no contract may be awarded to a firm or a subsidiary of a firm if the government of a terrorist country has a significant interest in the firm or subsidiary or, in the case of a subsidiary, the firm that owns the subsidiary, unless a waiver is granted by the Secretary of Defense. (c) Disclosure. If the government of a terrorist country has a significant interest in the Offeror or a subsidiary of the Offeror, the Offeror shall disclose such interest in an attachment to its offer. If the Offeror is a subsidiary, it shall also disclose any significant interest the government of a terrorist country has in any firm that owns or controls the subsidiary. The disclosure shall include-- (1) Identification of each government holding a significant interest; and (2) A description of the significant interest held by each government. (End of provision) DLAD 52.215-9023 REVERSE AUCTION (NOV 2011) The Contracting Officer may utilize on-line reverse auctioning as a means of conducting price discussions under this solicitation. If the Contracting Officer does not conduct a reverse auction, award may be made on the basis of initial offers or following discussions not using reverse auctioning as a pricing technique. If the Contracting Officer decides to use online reverse auctioning to conduct price negotiations, the Contracting Officer will notify offerors of this decision and the following provisions will apply. (a) The award decision will be made in accordance with the evaluation factors as set forth in the solicitation. The reverse on-line auction will be used as a pricing technique during discussions to establish the final offered prices from each offeror. These prices will be used in conjunction with the evaluation factors stated elsewhere in the solicitation in order to make the award decision in accordance with the basis for award stated in the solicitation. (b) Following the decision to conduct discussions using on-line reverse auctioning as a pricing technique, the Contracting Officer or his/her representative will provide offerors determined to be in the competitive range with information concerning the on-line auction process. The Government intends to use a commercial web-based product to conduct the reverse auction. (c) Prior to or simultaneously with conducting the on-line reverse auction, the Contracting Officer may hold discussions with the offerors concerning matters appropriate for discussion, such as issues involving technical proposals or unbalanced pricing. (d) The lowest offeror's price(s) for each round of the reverse auction will be disclosed to other offerors and anyone else having authorized access to the on-line auction. This disclosure is anonymous, meaning that each offeror's identity will be concealed from other offerors (although it will be known to the Government; only a generic identifier will be used for each offeror's proposed pricing, such as "Offeror A" or "lowest-priced offeror"). By submitting a proposal in response to the solicitation, offerors agree to participate in the reverse auction and that their prices may be disclosed, including to other offerors, during the reverse auction. (e) An offeror's final auction price at the close of the reverse auction will be considered its final proposal revision. No price revisions will be accepted after the close of the reverse auction, unless the Contracting Officer decides that further discussions are needed and final proposal revisions are again requested in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.307.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(f) The following information is provided regarding the procedures to be followed if a reverse auction is conducted. (1) Each offeror identified by the Contracting Officer as a participant in the reverse auction will be contacted by Defense Logistic Agency's commercial reverse auction service provider to advise the offeror of the event and to provide an explanation of the process. (2) In order for an Offeror to participate in the reverse auction, such offeror must agree with terms and conditions of the entire solicitation, including this provision, and agree to the commercial reverse auction service provider's terms and conditions for using its service. Information concerning the reverse auction process and the commercial service provider's terms and conditions is available at [https://govauctions.sourcing.procuri.com]. (3) Offerors shall secure the passwords and other confidential materials provided by the commercial reverse auction service provider or the Government and ensure they are used only for purposes of participation in the reverse auction. Offerors shall keep their own and other offerors' pricing in confidence until after contract award. (4) Any offeror unable to enter pricing through the commercial reverse auction service provider's system during a reverse auction must notify the Contracting Officer or designated representative [insert name and contact information for designated representative] immediately. The Contracting Officer may, at his/her sole discretion, extend or re-open the reverse auction if the reason for the offeror's inability to enter pricing is determined to be without fault on the part of the offeror and outside the offeror's control. (5) The reverse auction will be conducted using the commercial reverse auction service provider's website: https://govauctions.sourcing.procuri.com. Offerors shall be responsible for providing their own computer and internet connection. (6) Training: (i) The commercial reverse auction service provider and/or a Government representative will provide familiarization training to offerors' employees; this training may be provided through written material, the commercial reverse auction service provider's website, and/or other means. (ii) An employee of an offeror who successfully completes the training shall be designated as a 'trained offeror.' Only trained offerors may participate in a reverse auction. The Contracting Officer reserves the right to request that offerors provide an alternate offeror employee to become a 'trained offeror.' The Contracting Officer also reserves the right to take away the 'trained offeror' designation from any trained offeror who fails to abide by the solicitation's or commercial reverse auction service provider's terms and conditions. (End of Provision) DLAD 52.233-9000 AGENCY PROTESTS (NOV 2011) (a) Companies protesting this procurement may file a protest (1) with the contracting officer, (2) with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), or (3) pursuant to Executive Order Number 12979, with the Agency for a decision by the Activity's Chief of the Contracting Office. (b) Protests filed with the agency should clearly state that they are an "Agency Level Protest under Executive Order Number 12979." (Note: Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) procedures for Agency Level Protests filed under Executive Order No. 12979 allow for a higher level decision on the initial protest than would occur with a protest to the contracting officer; this process is not an appellate review of a contracting officer's decision on a protest previously filed with the contracting officer). Absent a clear indication of the intent to file an agency level protest, protests will be presumed to be protests to the contracting officer. (End of provision) DLAD 52.233-9001 DISPUTES: AGREEMENT TO USE ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (NOV 2011) (a) The parties agree to negotiate with each other to try to resolve any disputes that may arise. If unassisted negotiations are unsuccessful, the parties will use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques to try to resolve the dispute.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Litigation will only be considered as a last resort when ADR is unsuccessful or has been documented by the party rejecting ADR to be inappropriate for resolving the dispute. (b) Before either party determines ADR inappropriate, that party must discuss the use of ADR with the other party. The documentation rejecting ADR must be signed by an official authorized to bind the contractor (see Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.233-1), or, for the Agency, by the contracting officer, and approved at a level above the contracting officer after consultation with the ADR Specialist and with legal. Contractor personnel are also encouraged to include the ADR Specialist in their discussions with the contracting officer before determining ADR to be inappropriate. (c) The offeror should check here to opt out of this clause: [ ] Alternate wording may be negotiated with the contracting officer. (End of provision) FAR 52.212-2 EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Factor 1: Factor 2: Factor 3: Factor 4: Factor 5: Technical Capability Management and Staffing Approach Quality Control Plan (QCP) Past Performance Price

The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforms to the solicitation using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection procedures in accordance with FAR 15.101-2, as supplemented. Technical tradeoffs will not be made and no additional credit will be given for exceeding acceptability. Award will be made to the acceptable offeror with the lowest evaluated price, inclusive of options in accordance with FAR 52.217-9, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract, which is deemed responsible in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), and which has submitted a proposal conforming to the solicitation requirements. The requirements include all stated terms, conditions, completion of representations and certifications, and all other requirements of this solicitation. The Government intends to award without discussions; therefore, the initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if determined necessary by the Contracting Officer. Offerors are advised that unrealistically low price, initially or subsequently, may be grounds for eliminating a proposal from competition on the basis that the offeror does not understand this requirement. Proposals shall be evaluated for acceptability or unacceptability only and shall not be rated. Award will be based on the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for the non-price factors. Any offeror who has submitted a technically acceptable proposal and who has been found to have an acceptable or neutral past performance will then have the proposal evaluated for lowest price. The following non-price factors shall be used to determine acceptability of a proposal: Factor 1: Technical Capability Factor 2: Management and Staffing Approach Factor 3: Quality Control Plan (QCP) Factor 4: Past Performance Factors 1 through 4 shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. To be considered acceptable and eligible for award, an Offeror must address separately all the factors set forth in accordance with the instructions of this solicitation. A major item and/or gross omission which precludes meeting solicitation objectives which cannot be corrected prior to or during discussions without major revision or complete resubmission of the proposal will cause a proposal to be found technically unacceptable.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




The determination of the competitive range will include all proposals which are considered to have a reasonable chance of being selected for award. A proposal is considered acceptable if it (i) addresses itself to all the essential requirements of the RFP, (ii) shows the offeror understands all essential requirements of the RFP, and has demonstrated a full capability to perform the prospective requirements, (iii) offers a feasible technical approach, (iv) is determined to have an adequate accounting system, and (v) although some discussion of the proposal may be desirable, the proposal is complete to the extent that an award could be made on its present terms. A proposal will be considered unacceptable if award cannot be made on the present terms of the proposal, and corrective action would require essentially rewriting the proposal or require the submission of an approach which would be new or almost entirely different from that previously proposed. Any proposal which is determined to be unacceptable will not be considered in the competitive range and eliminated from further consideration. An "Unacceptable" rating on any one of the three Technical Evaluation Factors (Factors 1, 2, or 3) shall render the proposal ineligible for award, or if discussions are held, a proposal found to be "unacceptable for award" (as defined above) may be excluded from the competitive range. An initial proposal evaluation of "Unacceptable" in the Past Performance Factor (Factor 4) will not automatically eliminate an offeror from the competitive range, but may be considered in making the competitive range determination if communications have been conducted pursuant to FAR 15.306(b)(1)(i). Communications shall be held with offerors whose past performance information is the determining factor keeping them from being placed within the competitive range if the communications are necessary to allow them to address adverse past performance information to which the offeror(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond. It is the intention of the Government to award without discussions. However, if it is determined that discussions are required, then the determination of the competitive range will include all proposals which are considered to be technically acceptable and may include those that are considered to have a reasonable chance of being selected for award, unless the competitive range is further limited in accordance with FAR 15.306(c)(2). Those offerors whose proposals do not fall into the competitive range will be notified as required by FAR 15.503(a)(1). Offerors will be notified in writing with a concise explanation of their proposal deficiencies without jeopardizing the competitive range. Those offerors whose proposals are determined by the Contracting Officer to be in the competitive range will be contacted by the Contract Specialist for discussions. Discussions will be conducted in accordance with FAR 15.306(d). If verbal discussions are held they will be followed by a written reiteration of the discussion. Written discussions may also be held, whereby the Government will provide a written list of discussion questions to each offeror, as appropriate. In the case of both verbal and written discussions, the offeror will provide a written response to the discussion question and revision to the proposal as required. This response and revision (if required) will be marked accordingly to distinguish it as a supplement to their original proposal. More than one round of discussions may be held. At the conclusion of final discussions, the Government will request each offeror in the competitive range to submit a Final Proposal Revision (FPR). The FPR will be evaluated as to its revised technical, past performance, and/or pricing approach in response to the issues identified during discussions. The Government then intends, in accordance with the evaluation factors for award set forth below, to award a contract to the offeror who has submitted the lowest price technically acceptable proposal. A proposal will be determined ineligible for award if any one of the factors (Factors 1, 2, 3, or 4) is evaluated as "Unacceptable". Factor 1 ­ Technical Capability The Offeror's Technical Capability will be evaluated on an acceptable/unacceptable basis. To be technically acceptable, the Offeror shall demonstrate a clear understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the necessary performance within the required time frame. Factor 2 ­ Management and Staffing Approach The Offeror's Management and Staffing Approach will be evaluated on an acceptable/unacceptable basis. To be acceptable, the Offeror shall demonstrate a management and staffing approach that reflects a clear understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the required results within the required time frame. Factor 3 ­ Quality Control Plan The Offeror's Quality Control Plan will be evaluated on an acceptable/unacceptable basis. To be acceptable, the Offeror shall demonstrate an approach to quality control which identifies processes, procedures, and metrics that are likely to predict a high quality services that meet the acceptable performance levels. Factor 4 - Past Performance The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), data submitted by the offeror in Volume III, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the offeror's past performance.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




Each proposal will be evaluated to the extent to which the offeror has demonstrated an ability and willingness to perform: 1) A quality product or service (i.e. the conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good worksmanship); 2) Timeliness of the contract with regard to completion of contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules and administrative requirements (e.g. effort that contributes to or affects the schedule variance); 3) Acceptable cost control with regard to the offeror's effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract cost; 4) Good business relationships with regard to the timeliness completeness and quality of problem identification and resolution, offeror's history of reasonable and cooperative behavior, customer satisfaction, timely award and management of subcontracts, and whether the contractor met their small/small disadvantaged and women owned business participation goals; and 5) Management of personnel with regard to demonstration of a commitment to the management of personnel with regard to the offeror's performance in selecting, retaining, supporting, and replacing, when necessary, personnel. The Government will only consider relevant past performance data the offeror and its major subcontractors. A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of the total threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. Subcontractors not meeting the definition of a "major subcontractor" will not be evaluated. To be considered relevant, the offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, schedule, and scope. Additionally, the performance must have occurred during the last five (5) years. Offerors shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. In the case of an offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv), Past Performance Evaluation). Therefore, the offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, "unknown" shall be considered "acceptable." Should the Government discover adverse past performance information to which the offeor(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond, the PCO will conduct communications if deemed appropriate. Price Proposals determined to meet or exceed the acceptability standards for the non-cost evaluation factors then will be evaluated for the lowest price. Price reasonableness will be determined through price analysis in accordance with FAR 15.402. The Government will utilize a comparison of proposed prices received in response to the solicitation. Normally, adequate price competition establishes price reasonableness (see FAR 15.403-1(c)(1)). In addition, the Government may utilize a comparison of previously proposed prices and previous Government historical and commercial contract prices with current proposed prices for the same or similar items, if both the validity of the comparison and the reasonableness of the previous price(s) can be established. Award will be based on the lowest priced proposal that meets or exceeds the acceptability standards for the non-cost factors. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of Provision) FAR 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2012) ALTERNATE I (APR 2011) An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation," as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Coe at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more servicedisabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror prepresents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]. The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




[The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory or the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act ­ Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products,
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available offthe-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and `United States' are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian or Moroccan End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph(g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [_] Outside the United States.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.] (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [_] TIN:_____________________. [_] TIN has been applied for. [_] TIN is not required because: [_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government; (4) Type of organization. [_] Sole proprietorship; [_] Partnership; [_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [_] Foreign government; [_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [_] Other ____________________. (5) Common parent. [_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent: [_] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________________________ TIN ______________________________________ (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of Provision) FAR 52.219-1 SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (APR 2012) ALTERNATE I (APR 2011) (a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541513. (2) The small business size standard is $25,500,000. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




(6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (7) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that is [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (8) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that ­ (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: ___________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (9) [Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.] The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls: ___ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE





 




"Small business concern," means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern," means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm's status as a business concern that is small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, service-disabled veteran-owned small, economically disadvantaged women-owned small, or women-owned small eligible under the WOSB Program in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8, 9, 15, 31, and 36 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall -(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of Provision)

