








                                                       PERFORMANCE-BASED STATEMENT OF WORK






                                                                      [pic]


                                                       BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE FINANCIAL DATA









Table of Contents
1     Background 4
2     Scope 4
3    Types of Services 4
4   Task Requirements  5
4.1  Business Intelligence Database:    6
4.3  Customer Service: 7
4.3  Training of Users:      7
5   Performance Requirements 7
6 Evaluation Factors   8
6.1 Business Data Factors    8
6.2 Technical Factors  8
6.3 Training Factors   8
6.4 Price Evaluation Factor  8
7  Weighing of Evaluation Criteria      8
8 Period of Performance and User Licenses    8



Background

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) is an interagency committee of the United States (U.S.) government which
reviews foreign purchases of, and investments in, U.S. companies to identify threats to U.S. national security.  The FBI, through the work of
the Foreign Investment Unit (CD-6C), directly supports the Director of National Intelligence, an ex-officio member of CFIUS, and the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ), a voting member of CFIUS.  CD-6C reviews CFIUS filings and other related business transactions to identify U.S.
national security risks, and to protect and preserve FBI equities that may be affected by these transactions.  CFIUS is a voluntary filing
process.  CFIUS statutes authorize that transactions not filed with CFIUS, so called non-notifieds (NNs), may be reviewed for their impact on
national security and brought to the attention of CFIUS if warranted.



Scope



The FBI Foreign Investment Unit (FIU) estimated that there were approximately 2,734 transactions involving a foreign acquisition of a U.S.
company from January 2009 through December 2010.  For the same time period, the number of transactions filed with CFIUS was 144.  These 144
transactions filed with CFIUS comprised approximately 5% of foreign acquisitions of U.S. companies, leaving a large gap of unreviewed
transactions.
FIU has researched public source databases and found these databases did not meet the minimum data requirements for NN review.  Therefore, FIU
must employ a commercial pay-for database to assist with this project mission.  Certain commercial databases provide business intelligence and
information including merger and acquisition transactions, ownership information, corporate trees of complex corporations, and financial
information.


3    Types of Services


Services shall cover the full breadth of financial data obtained through business intelligence databases.  Each of the following tasks is
considered a major area of work under this requirement.







|Company type                                       |Ownership type (public or private) of foreign and U.S.|Relationships with other key executives and     |
|                                                   |companies.                                            |professionals and/or board members              |
|Website                                            |If public, name(s) of owner(s) and ownership          |Key Board Members                               |
|                                                   |percentage provided down to a 1% interest.            |                                                |
|Number of employees                                |If private, ownership information as available.       |Key Board Members                               |
|Year founded                                       |Organizational chart/corporate tree of company, to    |Current and pending subsidiaries                |
|                                                   |include parent company, all subsidiaries and all      |                                                |
|                                                   |operating units                                       |                                                |
|Business description                               |Joint ventures                                        |Current and pending investments                 |
|Primary industry classification                    |Strategic alliances                                   |Current and historical (10 years) of announced, |
|                                                   |                                                      |closed or rumored merger and acquisition        |
|                                                   |                                                      |transactions.                                   |
|Office locations                                   |Products                                              |Audits of data conducted periodically by        |
|                                                   |                                                      |contractor                                      |
|Current and Pending Investors down to 1% ownership |Suppliers                                             |Database available 24 hours a day, except in    |
|level                                              |                                                      |case of system maintenance                      |
|Prior investors                                    |Customers                                             |Quality control of information                  |
|Stock quote and chart                              | Competitors                                          |Data refreshed daily                            |
|Financial information                              |Corporate timeline                                    |Training provided to users by contract personnel|
|Key Executives and Professionals                   |Corporate governance                                  |Customer service available for user support     |
|Data exportable by user to MS-Excel                |News on Company                                       |                                                |




4   Task Requirements

           The Contractor shall provide at a minimum the following:


     4.1  Business Intelligence Database:

      • Types of Data:
         o Daily feeds of foreign mergers, acquisitions, and investments in U.S. companies.
               ▪ Announced, closed and rumored transactions provided.
         o Lists of Senior Executives, Officers, Board Members and other key personnel of foreign and U.S. companies.
         o Relationship paths and trees  (i.e. board seats on same companies, former employment as an executive, former board member, etc. )
           between an executive and/or board member and other executives and board members at least two degrees removed from foreign or U.S.
           executives and/or board members.
         o Ownership type:  public or privately owned.
               ▪ If publically owned, ownership percentages provided down to 2% held by an owner.
               ▪ If privately held, as much information as possible.
         o Organizational chart (i.e. corporate tree) of parent company, including all subsidiaries for both foreign and U.S. companies.
               ▪ Wholly-owned subsidiaries
               ▪ Partially-owned subsidiaries with percentage of ownership interest.
         o List of joint ventures in which foreign and U.S. companies are involved.
         o List of strategic alliances of the foreign and U.S. companies.
         o Merger and acquisition transactions on foreign and U.S. companies over the past 5 years.
         o Extensive information on company including financial data, locations of operations, ownership, customers, products, and competitors
           at a minimum.
    • Data Retention:
         o System shall maintain data from 1992 forwards, i.e. 20 years of data.
         o Data points retained and maintained for > 80,000 global companies.
         o System shall allow “right-click” functionality to dig into company data.
    • System Characteristics:
         o System shall be user friendly and intuitive.
         o System shall provide hyperlinks to related company and industry information.
         o System data shall be dynamically linked between source and destination applications, including Excel, Word, and PowerPoint.
         o Information shall be accessed on an unclassified computer network.

         o BlackBerry Application:
               ▪ Business intelligence database shall have a mobile website, capable of connection by user’s BlackBerry.
         o All data exportable into Excel.

               ▪ Data exported to Excel spreadsheets shall be updated automatically as information updates.






      4.3  Customer Service:

         o The contractor shall provide telephone customer service reps available Monday through Friday from the hours of 0700 EST to 1800 EST.
         o The contractor shall provide online customer service available by email.



      4.3  Training of Users:

         o System shall be easy to use – new user could utilize system with zero formal training on product.
         o System shall have user tutorials on its webpage.
         o If requested, the Contractor shall provide on-site training to the Government.  The training will take place at a Government location
           to be disclosed at time of award.



5   Performance Requirements


   The Contractor shall ensure that the system performs up to the following standards:
         • The system shall be available 99.99% of the time in any 24-hour period.

               o Should the system not operate properly for whatever reason the Contractor will contact the Government and expedite the process
                 of repairing the system.

         • Information shall be accessed on an unclassified computer network.

         • Technology Architecture:  web-based and Excel-based.

         • Website must work on a Windows platform.

         • All data exportable into Excel.

               o Data exported to Excel spreadsheets shall be updated automatically as information updates.

         • A user’s data search will occur within less than three seconds 95% of the time.

         • A user’s data search will occur within less than seven seconds 99% of the time.

         • System shall be highly secure.

               o Utilize secure API (Application Programming Interface) system

         • System shall be highly reliable:

               o Internal quality checks > 2,000

               o External quality audit process

         • Response time from system receipt of input data to availability of system products is no longer than 10 seconds.

         • Response time to data queries is no longer than 5 seconds.

         • System taps data feeds from Computstat Merger Database and CRSP (Center for Research in Security Prices) database at a minimum.


     6 Evaluation Factors


      6.1 Business Data Factors


               o Operational Capability Demo
                  • Must demonstrate all capabilities listed in Section 2.1
                  • Meets Data Retention factors
                  • Meets System Characteristics

      6.2 Technical Factors



               o BlackBerry application for mobile access
               o Utilize secure API
               o System availability in 24-hour period
               o Technology Architecture is web-based and Excel-based

      6.3 Training Factors


               o System shall be easy to use – new user could utilize system with zero formal training on product.
               o System shall have user tutorials on its webpage.


      6.4 Price Evaluation Factor

               o Cost will be evaluated but not scored.






     7  Weighing of Evaluation Criteria



        For the purpose of determining best value among the offerors:


         • Cost becomes more important as proposals are deemed to be increasingly similar based on the other factors.


         • Within the Evaluation Factors, Factor 6.1 > 6.2 > 6.3 > 6.4.



8 Period of Performance and User Licenses


   The period of performance shall be for 12 months from the date of award.  The Bureau is also requesting pricing for two options years, each
   with a 12 month period of performance.  Six (6) user licenses are required. The Bureau may require additional user licenses either during the
   base year or option years if the need arises.









































52.252-01 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)
This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include
blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions,
the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the
full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address:   http://www.acquisition.gov/far/

52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 98)

This contract incorporated one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es): http://www.acqnet.gov


52.203-5    Covenant Against Contingent Fees (Apr 84)
52.204-6    Data Universal Number System (Apr 2008)
52.204-7    Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008)
52.204-8    Annual Representation and Certification (Jan 2011)
52.211-6    Variation in Quality (Apr 84)
            (permissible variations are stated in the schedule)
52.213-1    Fast Payment Procedure (Feb 98)
52.213-2    Invoices (Apr 84)
52.213-3    Notice to Supplier (Apr 84)
52.213-4    Terms and Conditions-Simplified Acquisitions (other than commercial items)
           (Jan 2011)
52.219-8    Utilization of Small Business concerns (Jan 2011)
52.222-3    Convict Labor (June 2003)
52.222-26   Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)
            (applies when aggregate value exceeds $10,000)
52.222-35   Equal Opportunity for Special Disable Veterans,
            Veterans of Vietnam Era and other eligible veterans(Sept 2010)
52.222-36   Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010)
52.222-37   Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, and
            Veterans of the Vietnam Era and other eligible veterans (Sept 2010)
52.225-1    Buy American Act-Supplies (Feb 2009)
52.232-34   Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-other than
           Central Contractor Registration (May 99)
52.233-1    Disputes (Jul 2002)
52.243-1    Changes-Fixed Price (Aug 87)
52.246-1    Contractor Inspection Requirements (Apr 84)
52.249-1    Termination for Convenience of the Government (Apr 84)
            (Applies when contract $100,000 or less)




52.232-1 Payments (Apr 84)

The Government shall pay the Contractor, upon the submission of proper invoices or vouchers, the prices stipulated in this contract for supplies
delivered and accepted or services rendered and accepted, less any deductions provided in this contract.  Unless otherwise specified in this
contract, payment shall be made on partial deliveries accepted by the Government if (a) The amount due on the deliveries warrants it; or (b) The
Contractor requests it and the amount due on the deliveries is at least $1,000 or 50 percent of the total contract price.

    8. Discounts for Prompt Payment (Feb 2002)

   a) Discounts for prompt payment will not be considered in the evaluation of offers.  However, any offered discount will form a part of the
      award, and will be taken if payment is made within the discount period indicated in the offer by the offeror.  As an alternative to
      offering a discount for prompt payment in conjunction with the offer, offerors awarded contracts may include discounts for prompt payment
      on individual invoices.


   b) In connection with any discount offered for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice.  If the Contractor has not
      placed a date on the invoice, the due date shall be calculated from the date the designated billing office receives a proper invoice,
      provided the agency annotates such invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt.  For the purpose of computing the discount
      earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date that appears on the payment check or, for an electronic funds transfer,
      the specified payment date.  When the discount date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are
      closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day.


FAR 52.217-5  Evaluation of Options (July 1990)

Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best interests, the Government will evaluate offers
for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not
obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

FAR 52.217-8  Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.

FAR 52.217-9  Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 36 months/3 years.

FAR 52.249-1  Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (Short Form)
           (Apr 1984)
The Contracting Officer, by written notice, may terminate this contract, in whole or in part, when it is in the Government’s interest. If this
contract is terminated, the rights, duties, and obligations of the parties, including compensation to the Contractor, shall be in accordance
with Part 49 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.







REQUEST FOR QUOTATION (THIS IS NOT AN ORDER)
1. REQUEST NO. 2. DATE ISSUED

THIS RFQ

IS

IS NOT A SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE 4. CERT. FOR NAT. DEF. UNDER BDSA REG. 2 AND/OR DMS REG. 1 6. DELIVER BY (Date) 7. DELIVERY FOB DESTINATION a. NAME OF CONSIGNEE

PAGE

OF

PAGES

1
RATING

1

3. REQUISITION/PURCHASE REQUEST NO.

260345
5a. ISSUED BY

07/27/2011

260345

Federal Bureau of Investigation
5b. FOR INFORMATION CALL (NO COLLECT CALLS) NAME AREA CODE TELEPHONE NUMBER NUMBER OTHER (See Schedule)

9. DESTINATION

Sasha M. Desdunes
8. TO: a. NAME c. STREET ADDRESS d. CITY 10. PLEASE FURNISH QUOTATIONS TO THE ISSUING OFFICE IN BLOCK 5a ON OR BEFORE CLOSE OF BUSINESS (Date)

202
b. COMPANY

324-4058

N/A
b. STREET ADDRESS c. CITY

e. STATE

f. ZIP CODE

d. STATE

e. ZIP CODE

IMPORTANT: This is a request for information and quotations furnished are not offers. If you are unable to quote, please so indicate on this form and return it to the address in Block 5a. This request does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the preparation of the submission of this quotation or to contract for supplies or service. Supplies are of domestic origin unless otherwise indicated by quoter. Any representations and/or certifications attached to this Request for Quotation must be completed by the quoter.

11. SCHEDULE (Include applicable Federal, State and local taxes)
ITEM NO. (a) SUPPLIES/ SERVICES (b) QUANTITY (c) UNIT (d) UNIT PRICE (e) AMOUNT (f)

0001 1001 2001

User Licenses Option Year One - User Licenses Option year Two - User Licenses

6 6 6

0.00 0.00 0.00

a. 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) b. 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) c. 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%)

d. CALENDAR DAYS NUMBER PERCENTAGE

12. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT

NOTE: Additional provisions and representations
13. NAME AND ADDRESS OF QUOTER a. NAME OF QUOTER b. STREET ADDRESS

are

are not attached.
14. SIGNATURE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN QUOTATION 15. DATE OF QUOTATION

16. SIGNER a. NAME (Type or print) b. TELEPHONE AREA CODE e. STATE f. ZIP CODE c. TITLE (Type or print) NUMBER

c. COUNTY d. CITY AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition not usable

STANDARD FORM 18 (REV. 6-95) Prescribed by GSA-FAR (48 CFR) 53.215-1(a)

