

















REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS  

(RFP) NO LAJCC-2014-RFP-01



For



COPIER LEASE AND PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE SERVICES 











RFP SCHEDULE: LAJCC- 2014 RFP-01

Issued: November 18, 2013

Written questions: November 27, 2013 11:00 A.M.

proposals due: dECEMBER 19, 2013 @ 2:00 p.m.



Los Angeles Job Corps Center

1031 S. Hill Street

5TH, floor

Los Angeles, CA 90015 



THIS ACQUISITION IS



               UNRESTRICTED OR		 SET-ASIDE:						HUBZONE:

					



					SMALL BUSINESS					VETERAN OWNED

					



					SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN

					OWNED 

					

NAICS: 722310

INTRODUCTION



The YWCA of Greater Los Angeles – Los Angeles Job Corps Center (hereinafter referred to as LAJCC) is a comprehensive residential and non-residential program that provides vocational training to meet the individual needs of each student and prepare 579 poverty level youth, ages sixteen (16) through twenty-four (24) years of age, for meaningful employment and the responsibilities of citizenship.

LAJCC is operated by the YWCA of Greater Los Angeles. The program emphasizes vocational training with related program components supporting the objective of career placement above the helper skill level. 

Under the terms and conditions of the resulting subcontract, the successful offeror shall provide one proposal that covers the anticipated 34 month lease of “New and Unused Copiers” inclusive of all lease and preventive maintenance costs; any and all delivery, installation and pick up charges required for copiers, supplies, and related services proposed in response to this RFP.  Offeror shall maintain an inventory with quantities sufficient to support normal preventive maintenance for the copiers supplied in response to this RFP and the accompanying specifications. 

It is the policy of the LAJCC to award subcontracts to the maximum extent possible to small business concerns, so that they have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.  These firms include “Small Business, Women Owned Small Business, HUBZone Business, Small Disadvantaged Business, Veteran Owned Small Business and Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses.”

This requirement is a [Small Business] set-aside and only qualified offerors may submit bids. The solicitation is on . Proposals will be accepted starting on November 18th, 2013 as posted and will end on December 19th, 2013 2:00 p.m. PST or as otherwise displayed at . 



RFP Addenda/Clarifications



LAJCC reserves the right to revise the solicitation documents prior to the proposal submittal due date.  Such revisions if any will be made by Amendment to this RFP.  Proposers shall acknowledge receipt of all Amendments to the solicitation documents in their proposal letter.  Failure to acknowledge receipt of all Addendums and to include all the requirements of the Addendum in the proposal may render the proposal unacceptable and cause it to be rejected.  

Pre-Contractual Expenses



Pre-contractual expenses are defined as any expenses incurred by the proposer in:  (1) preparation of their proposal in response to this RFP; (2) submitting that proposal to LAJCC; (3) negotiating with LAJCC any matter related to this RFP, including a possible contract; or (4) engaging in any other activity prior to the effective date of award, if any, of a contract resulting from this RFP.  LAJCC shall not, under any circumstance, be liable for any pre-contractual expenses.



No Commitment to Award



Issuance of this RFP and receipt of proposals does not commit LAJCC to award a contract.  LAJCC expressly reserves the right to postpone proposal opening for its own convenience, to accept or reject any or all proposals received in response to this RFP, to negotiate with more than one proposer concurrently, or to cancel all or part of this RFP.



Joint Offers



Where two or more proposers desire to submit a single proposal in response to this RFP, they should do so on a prime-subcontractor basis rather than as a joint venture or informal team.  LAJCC intends to contract with a single firm and not with multiple firms doing business as a joint venture.



Proposed Contract



The proposer selected for contract award through this RFP shall be required to enter into a written agreement with the YWCA of Greater Los Angeles LAJCC.  The Sample Agreement presented in Exhibit B of this RFP is the agreement proposed for execution.  It may be modified to incorporate other pertinent terms and conditions set forth in this RFP, including those added by addendum, and to reflect the proposer's offer or the outcome of contract negotiations, if any, conducted with the proposer.  Exceptions to the terms and conditions of the Sample Agreement, or the proposer's inability to comply with any of the provisions of the Sample Agreement, must be declared in their proposal.



The proposer's attention is directed particularly to the Section in the Sample Agreement, which specifies the minimum insurance requirements that must be met by the successful proposer.  The proposer's inability or unwillingness to meet these requirements as a condition of award must be stated as an exception in the proposal.



Exceptions/Deviations



Any exceptions to or deviations from the requirements set forth in this RFP, including the terms and conditions contained in the Sample Agreement, must be declared in the proposal submitted by the proposer. Such exceptions or deviations must be segregated as a separate element of the proposal under the heading "Exceptions and Deviations.”



Protests



Any actual or prospective proposer may protest the solicitation or award of a contract for violations of LAJCC’s procurement policies or of laws and regulations governing LAJCC's procurement activities.  Any protest against this RFP or its contents must be in writing and submitted to the Purchasing Department at the place specified for submittal of proposals. Refer to Exhibit G.

Funding



The LAJCC’s obligation under the pending Subcontract is contingent upon the availability of appropriate funds from which payment for copiers lease and preventive maintenance services can be made. This RFP does not commit LAJCC to pay any proposal preparation, travel charges and related costs incurred in the submission of your proposal. LAJCC reserves the right to reject any and all proposals.



Late Proposals



Any proposal, portion of a proposal, or unrequested proposal revision received by LAJCC after the time and date specified on the cover page of this RFP will cause the entire proposal to be late.  Late proposals will not be considered for award. 



Interpretation of Modification

		

No oral statement made by any person, and no written statement of anyone other than the Administrative Services Director or designee, shall modify or otherwise affect the terms or meaning of this contract.  All requests for interpretations, modifications, or changes should be made in writing to the Administrative Services Director or designee.



Subcontracts



The Subcontractor shall not subcontract out any services or portions of this contract without prior written approval by the Administrative Services Division Director or designee.



Examination of RFP Documents



All Proposals shall be in strict accordance with the Request for Proposal (RFP) documents.  LAJCC responses to all written questions and requests for interpretation and clarification will be available for examination on the Federal Business Opportunity Web site () unless otherwise specified.  The proposer is solely responsible for the examination of solicitation documents.  Failure of the proposer to so examine and inform it must be at its sole risk.



Communication with LAJCC and Clarification of RFP Documents



All communications between LAJCC and proposers must be in writing. Requests for Clarification of RFP and solicitation documents shall be submitted in writing no later than 11:00 a.m. November 27, 2013.  All written requests may be submitted electronically by email to: Barry Silverman @  and Anthony J. Comres @ . Send the original copy of the request for clarification to the LAJCC Administrative Services Division Director, Mr. Victor Abadia at the address provided on the front page of the RFP.






Preparation of Submittal



The proposal shall be formatted in accordance with the requirements specified herein.  Proposal shall include all the forms provided with the solicitation documents. Proposers shall complete the forms in accordance with the directions specified in these instructions and the forms.  All required explanatory narratives and supplementary data are to be included with the proposal forms as indicated.



Proposals must be typed. Pencil or erasable ink shall not be accepted.  Initial all modifications made to the proposer’s entries and identify the proposer’s name on the top right portion of each page.  Liquid or dry correction materials shall not be used.



Failure to comply with the requirements outlined in the proposal and solicitation documents may render the proposal incomplete and may cause the proposal to be rejected.



Signing of Proposal and Authorization to Negotiate



Proposer or its authorized representative (proposer’s representative) shall execute the proposal and all required solicitation documents.  Proposers shall submit evidence of the Proposer’s Representative’s authority.



Submission of Proposal



LAJCC will accept proposals submitted by the proposer at the address and place shown on the front page of this RFP.  It is the proposer’s sole responsibility to see that its proposal is received as stipulated.  LAJCC may leave unopened any proposal received after the date and time for receipt of proposals.  Any such unopened proposals may be returned to the proposer.



Proposal Evaluation Process



LAJCC shall review and evaluate the proposals in accordance with the requirements of solicitation documents. During the proposal evaluation period, LAJCC shall determine if proposals are responsive and responsible. Following the evaluation period the Notice of Intent to award will be sent to all proposers



Withdrawal of Submittal



The proposer, by means of a written request, signed by the Proposer’s Representative, may withdraw his or her proposal.  Such written request shall be delivered to the Administrative Services Director or Contract Specialist identified in the Request for Proposal and Solicitation notice prior to the award.






LAJCC Rights



LAJCC will investigate the qualifications of any proposer under consideration inclusive of, but not limited to the information provided in the Proposal.  LAJCC may require confirmation of information furnished by a proposer, finger printing and require additional evidence of qualifications to perform the services described in the RFP. LAJCC reserves the right to:





Reject any or all of the proposals, at its discretion.

Remedy errors in the RFP.

Cancel the entire RFP.

Issue a Subsequent RFP.

Appoint evaluation committees to review proposals.

Seek the assistance of outside technical experts to review 

proposals.

Approve or disapprove the use of particular subcontractors and

suppliers.

Establish a short list of proposers eligible for discussions after 

review of written proposals.

Solicit best and final offers (BAFO) from all or some of the

 proposers.

Negotiate with any all or none of the proposers.

Award a contract to one or more proposers.

Accept other than the lowest price proposal.

Disqualify the proposal (s) upon evidence of collusion with intent

to defraud or other illegal practices on the part of the proposers.

Waive any informalities or irregularities in any proposal, to the 

extent permitted by law. 

Award a contract without interviews, discussions or negotiations.





Public Records Act



Responses to this RFP are subject to the provisions of the Federal Freedom of Information Act.



Disqualification of Proposers



Federal Organization Conflict of Interest may apply to this procurement.  Any person, firm, corporation, joint venture or partnership, or any other interested party that has been compensated by LAJCC or a Subcontractor engaged by the LAJCC for assistance in preparing the RFP documents and/or estimate shall be considered to have gained an unfair competitive advantage in proposing and shall be precluded from submitting a proposal in response to this RFP. 



Any person, firm, corporation, joint venture or partnership, or any other interested party that has discussions regarding this RFP with anyone within LAJCC other than the Director of Administrative Services; Contract Specialist or designee may be considered to have gained an unfair competitive advantage.  



As prescribed in FAR , and in accordance with FAR 52.203 in its entirety LAJCC  advises  all potential subcontractors  that if it is found that any form of a conflict of interest or improper business practice has taken place with respect to the award of a contract resulting from this RFP, that the Subcontractor’s right to proceed may be terminated by written notice if, after notice and hearing, the agency head or a designee determines that the Subcontractor, its agent, or another representative— 

(1) Offered or gave a gratuity (e.g., an entertainment or gift) to an officer, official, or employee of the Los Angeles Job Corps Center or Government representative; and 

(2) Intended, by the gratuity, to obtain a contract or favorable treatment under a contract. 

A proposer may also be considered non-responsive if the following items are not submitted at time of proposal due date:



Proposal letter

Cost price proposal

Completed Perspective Contractor Responsibility Form

Non-collusion affidavit

Non-discrimination certificate

Confidentially agreement

2 Copies of the proposal on CD







End of Instructions to Proposers










Proposal Submittal



The proposer shall submit to Victor Abadia, Administrative Services Division Director one printed original and four (4) copies of its proposal, together with two (2) CD’s containing an electronic version of the proposal in either Microsoft Word or PDF format, no later than 2:00 p.m. PST on December 19th, 2013. Proposals are to be enclosed in a sealed package plainly marked displaying the Subcontractors’ legal name and the words “Proposal Responding to LAJCC-2014 RFP-01 Copier Lease Preventive Maintenance Services.” Submittal shall not contain more than fifty (50) pages double-sided, excluding front, back covers and tabs, and may not be submitted with a font size of less than 11. Submittals containing more than the stated page limitation and not in accord with the font size will not be considered.     



Mail or deliver proposals to:



Los Angeles Job Corps Center

Attn: Mr. Victor Abadia 

Administrative Services Division Director

1031 S. Hill Street, 5th floor

Los Angeles, CA 90015

email:  



Any questions regarding this Request for Proposal or the instructions above should be directed to the Procurement Agent at:



Los Angeles Job Corps Center

Attn: Mr. Barry Silverman 

1031 S. Hill Street, 5th floor

Los Angeles, CA 90015

Phone: (213) 741-5311

email address: 



 

It is the sole responsibility of the proposer to ensure that the proposal is delivered on time.  Any proposal received after the stated deadline, may, at the sole discretion of the LAJCC, be returned without consideration.  It is the practice of LAJCC not to consider late offers unless it is determined that a selection cannot be made from among the proposals received on time. LAJCC shall not be responsible for, nor accept as a valid excuse for late proposal delivery, any delay in mail service or other method of delivery used by the proposer.  Proposals submitted via fax, telephone or e-mail will not be accepted.



All proposals must be firm offers subject to acceptance by LAJCC and may not be withdrawn for a period of 90 calendar days following the last day to submit proposals.  Proposals may not be amended once submitted to LAJCC, except as permitted by LAJCC.






Questions from Proposers

Proposers must submit all questions in writing by the questions deadline shown on the front page of this RFP.  Questions are to be submitted to the Contract Specialist or designee at the address shown above or by e-mail in accordance with the instructions given below.



LAJCC shall not be obligated to answer any questions received after the specified deadline or submitted in a manner other than as instructed above.  All questions and answers will be posted on the Federal Business Opportunities Web site ().  Proposers are instructed not to contact LAJCC personnel or its agents other than the Director of Administrative Services or the Contract Specialist concerning this RFP. Unauthorized contact is at proposer’s sole discretion, but will be cause for disqualification of a proposer.



PROPOSAL FORMAT AND CONTENT



General



The proposal should provide a straightforward, concise description of the proposer’s ability to satisfy the requirements of this RFP.  Emphasis should be placed on conformance to the RFP instructions, responsiveness to the RFP requirements, and completeness and clarity of content.  This RFP and the successful proposal may become a part of any contract that is executed as a result of this RFP.  Any proposal attachments, documents, letters, and materials submitted by the proposer will be binding and may also be included as part of the contract.



Presentation/Format



Proposals shall be submitted on 8 1/2" x 11" size paper (preferably recycled paper), using a simple method of fastening.  Proposals should be typed and not include any unnecessarily elaborate or promotional material.  Lengthy narrative is discouraged; presentations should be brief and concise.  The proposal should not exceed 30 pages in length, excluding any appendices.  The form, content, and sequence of the proposal should follow the outline presented below.



Proposal Letter/Transmittal/Introduction



The letter of transmittal shall be addressed to the Administrative Services Division Director and must, at a minimum, contain the following:



Identification of the offering Company(s), name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of each firm;

Proposed working relationship among the offering firms (e.g., prime-subcontractor), if applicable;

Acknowledgment of receipt of RFP addendums, if any;

Name, title, address, e-mail address, and telephone number of contact person during the period of proposal evaluation;

A statement to the effect that the proposal shall remain valid for a period of not less than ninety (90) days from the due date for submittal;

Identification of any information contained in the proposal which the proposer deems to be, and establishes as, confidential or proprietary and wishes to be withheld from disclosure to others under the state Public Records Act (a blanket statement that all contents of the proposal are confidential or proprietary will not be honored by LAJCC); and

Signature of a person authorized to bind the offering firm to the terms of the proposal.

Proposal Table of Contents



Immediately following the transmittal letter include a complete table of contents for material included in the proposal, including page numbers, and each evaluation criteria, divided by sections.  Each section shall have a letter or number identifying the section number and page as follows:

Tab – A – Technical

Tab – B – Management

Tab – C – Past Performance

Tab – D – Cost and Price 

Tab – E – Certifications SB/WOSB/HUB/SDB/VOSB/SDVOSB

Tab – F – Appendices 



SOURCE EVALUATION AND SELECTION PROCESS



Source Evaluation



Proposals will be evaluated in the areas of Technical, Management, Past Performance and Cost and Price information as well as any Small Business Certifications that are provided. 



1.1.2   LAJCC plans to make source selection based on the offeror whose proposal is 

determined to represent the best value to LAJCC.  LAJCC’s best value

source selection is based on the following: If all offers, in the competitive range, are of approximately equal qualitative merit, LAJCC will select for negotiations the offer with the lowest price. 



However, LAJCC may opt to negotiate with a Subcontractor(s) whose proposal offers a higher qualitative merit if the difference in price is commensurate with added value.  Conversely, LAJCC may select for negotiations with a Subcontractor whose proposal offers a lower qualitative merit if LAJCC determines that the price differential between it and other offers so warrants.  LAJCC will evaluate the proposal utilizing the following process:



Before issuing the RFP, LAJCC establishes specific criteria and their weighting for the evaluation. After receipt at LAJCC, the proposals are evaluated against the pre-set criteria as outlined in this proposal.	



Price proposals are reviewed for mathematical accuracy, rate application, price omissions, and price reasonableness.



Responsibility (i.e. consideration of matters such as Subcontractor financial capability, past performance record etc.) is assessed within the meaning of Federal Acquisition Regulation 9.1. Award will not be made to a Subcontractor deemed to be nonresponsible.



Results of the initial proposal evaluation are used to determine which proposals are within the competitive range (i.e., those having a reasonable chance of being selected for award of a Firm Fixed Price Subcontract.).  Proposals determined not to be within the competitive range are eliminated from further consideration, and the proposers are notified accordingly.



LAJCC may, at its discretion, conduct limited communications with one or more proposer(s) for the purpose of determining whether the proposer shall be included in the competitive range.  Such precompetitive range communications may be conducted to enhance LAJCC’s understanding of proposal(s) and may be used to:



Validate the proposers price; and



Clarify omissions, ambiguities and uncertainties in the proposer’s supplemental business/cost or price information.



Clarify relevant past performance information. 



Verifying and identifying strengths and weaknesses that could affect work performances.



LAJCC reserves the right to make a competitive range determination without conducting such communications.  Further, LAJCC, at its discretion, may waive minor informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.



LAJCC may make source selection after the initial proposal evaluation or may conduct discussions with the proposers determined to be within the competitive range.  The purpose of the discussions with the proposers determined to be within the competitive range is to assist the final evaluator in fully understanding each proposal.



After discussions, LAJCC may request Best and Final Offers (BAFO): Best and Final Language (BAFL), price proposal deltas in order to correct errors, omissions or ambiguities in the proposal.  Only those deltas requested by LAJCC will be recognized.



APPROACH TO PROVIDING COPIER LEASING AND PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE  

		

MANAGEMENT



Management Approach - The degree to which the proposer’s management approaches over Copier Services Technicians and Customer Support provides for effective organization, implementation and monitoring and control of the effort.  Factors to be considered are:

Briefly describe your vision as to how you would provide Management support that eliminates copier down time. 



RESOURCES 



Proposed Staffing and Project Organization 



This section should discuss the staff of the proposing firm who would be assigned to work on LAJCC's project.  Include Key personnel from your firm such as Account/Project Managers, Help Desk “800” Telephone numbers that would be assigned to LAJCC’s project.  Include a brief description of the staff’s qualifications, professional certifications, job functions and office location(s).  Include schedule of days and hours this person will be available. Furnish brief resumes (not more than one page long) for all key personnel; include these as an appendix, not in the body of the proposal.



Capability and Availability of Key Personnel involved:



The degree to which the proposer possesses the personnel and financial resources necessary is to successfully conduct this effort. Factors to be considered are:



Provide an on-site organizational chart. (if more than two people will be assigned to this project that clearly delineates communication and reporting relationships among the project staff.



Identify the name, title and phone number of the person(s) who will be responsible for monitoring cost; answering billing questions and reconciling discrepancies.



 Identify how the costs will be monitored to provide the lowest cost and most economical Copier Service.

 

PAST PERFORMANCE



This section should establish the ability of the proposer and any sub-consultants to satisfactorily perform the required work by reasons of: demonstrated competence in the services to be provided; nature and relevance of similar work recently completed for other clients; record of meeting schedules and deadlines on other projects; competitive advantages over other firms in the same industry; strength and stability as a business 

concern; and supportive client references.  Information should be furnished for both the proposer and any sub-consultants included in the offer.  Specifically include the degree to which the proposer can display success in prior years work with respect to Copier service management:



Provide the performance data from three (3) active or recent references copier service contracts you were awarded, which you operated at a minimum of one (1) year.



Contract Number

Name and address Firm

Contact name, email and phone number

Building population

Contract Type

Contact Value

Period of performance



COST /PRICE PROPOSAL



Please fill out Exhibit “F”



CERTIFICATIONS



Proposers that fall under the following titles with Certification will meet the criteria number 5.



SMALL BUSINESS (SB), SMALL DISADVANTAGE BUSINESS, (SB) SMALL WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS (SWOB), HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS (HZSB) VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (VOSB), SERVICE DISABLED VETERAN OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (SDVOSB) 

.

APPENDICES



Supporting Documents: The Subcontractor must furnish as appendices all documents (e.g., financial statements, staff resumes and Strategic Plan) requested in the preceding instructions.



Additional Information: Include any additional information you deem essential to a proper evaluation of your proposal and which is not solicited in any of the preceding sections.  Proposers are cautioned, however, that this is not an invitation to submit large amounts of extraneous material; appendices should be relevant and brief.



Proposal Evaluation and Contract Award



Evaluation Process



An Evaluation Panel consisting of staff and/or outside associates will review, analyze and evaluate all proposals received. The Evaluation Panel may short-list the field of proposers and conduct interviews of the firms in this group.  This committee will then recommend to the contracting officer a proposer for contract award.



Evaluation Criteria 



By use of numerical and narrative scoring techniques, proposals will be evaluated by LAJCC against the factors specified below.  The criteria are based on a 100-point scale, as listed below.  



Within each evaluation criterion listed, the sub-criteria to be considered are those described in the "Proposal Format and Content" and Exhibit A of this RFP.





LAJCC reserves the right to reject any or all proposals, to waive any irregularities or informalities in the offers received and to change the evaluation process described above if circumstances dictate this or it is otherwise in the best interests of LAJCC to do such.  In the event a proposal(s) is rejected, or in the event a proposer's offer is not rejected but does not result in a contract award, LAJCC shall not be liable for any costs incurred by the proposer in connection with the preparation and submittal of the proposal. 



Contract Award



It is the intent of LAJCC to award one contract as the result of this RFP.  Approval by the Regional Contracting Officer will be required prior to award.  



Exhibits to the RFP:



EXHIBIT A	Performance Specifications

EXHIBIT B	Sample Form of Contract

EXHIBIT C	Non-Collusion Affidavit

EXHIBIT D	Non-Discrimination Certification

EXHIBIT E	Confidentiality Agreement

EXHIBIT F	Cost/Price Proposal

EXHIBIT G	Protest Procedures



Proposal dated ________________________

RFP No. ________________






EXHIBIT A

Performance Specifications 



The supplier shall provide all labor, equipment, materials, and supervision to deliver and install Copiers, per the following minimum specifications, to Los Angeles Job Corps Center:



J001 Quote for minimum of 8 copiers: 



Copier minimum specifications:



	a. Bldg 1049 Education: 1 each with minimum 45 pages per minute; supporting allowed usage up to 60,000 copies per month.

Minimum 4 paper drawers, as follows: 

- 2 Trays adjustable up to 11x17- Approx. 500 sheets ea.

- 1 Tray Letter Size up to approx. 800 sheets or more;

- 1 Tray Letter size up to approx. 1000 sheets or more. 

Total paper capacity approx. 3,000 sheets or more.



J002	b. Bldg 1031 Finance: ASD: 1020 Health & Wellness 3 each with minimum 35 page per minute; supporting allowed usage ranging from 8,000-12,000 copies per month.

J003	c. 4 each with minimum 25 pages per minute; supporting allowed usage ranging from 4,000-6,000 copies per mo.

Paper Trays: Minimum 4 paper drawers, as follows:

- 2 Trays adjustable up to 11x17- Approx. 500 sheets ea.

- 1 Tray Letter Size up to approx. 800 sheets or more;

- 1 Tray Letter size up to approx. 1000 sheets or more. 

Paper Capacity: Total paper capacity approx. 3,000 sheets or more.



Document Feeder: 110 sheet DADF auto document feeder with First page out as fast as 4 seconds 



Security Requirements: Security 256-bit Hard Disk Encryption, Image Overwrite



Finisher: Minimum 2000 sheets unstapled or 1000 sheets single stapled or 700 sheets dual staple for all copiers - with no hole-punch option. 



Copy features: Reduction / Enlargement variable zoom 25% to 400% in 1% increments,



 ID card copy,  

Automatic tray selection, 

Automatic mixed-size originals. 

Copy sides 1:1, 1:2, 2:2, and 2:1, 

Automatic two sided coping, Image-shift, edge erase, auto centering, background suppression 

Designated Accounting Codes:  Auditron (or Equivalent) codes for users and departments



Network Requirements: Network ready for printing, faxing, scanning with searchable PDF’s capabilities.



Termination: LAJCC may terminate lease for all or some of machines with one week prior notice. 



Trouble calls: Trouble calls for service or maintenance shall be responded to within 4 hours during the normal business day.



Routine Preventive Maintenance: Suppliers shall have a follow a Routine Preventive Maintenance program that complies with the OEM recommended practices.



Historical Data: Most recent machine used to fulfill similar past requirements for Item J001 1a above was a Canon/OCE 2065. Most recent machines that have been used to fulfill similar past requirements for Item J001 II 1b and 1c above were: Kyocera 4050; Xerox 123/128 Xerox. 









JC 004 STAFFING



004.1	The Subcontractor shall be required to strictly adhere to all LAJCC rules, procedures and guidelines which apply to LAJCC management and personnel.  These include but are not limited to non-fraternization with students at any time, not indulging in drugs, alcohol and other controlled substances, any violence, sexual harassment, etc. 

 JC 005 Security

005.1	The Subcontractor shall be responsible for securing all areas, equipment and supplies under the jurisdiction of the Subcontractor.  



005.2	LAJCC Center Protection Officer’s (CPO) will be responsible for any student behavioral issues during the performance of Copier service operations. 

JC 006 Place of Performance:

Los Angeles Job Corps Center

1020 South Olive Street, 

Los Angeles, California 90015.



Los Angeles Job Corps Center

1031 South Hill Street, 

		Los Angeles, California 90015

Los Angeles Job Corps Center

1049 South Hill Street, 

Los Angeles, California 90015.



JC 007 NON-DISCRIMINATON AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 

007.1	No person shall on the grounds of race, creed, color disability, national origin, sex, beliefs, or political affiliation be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made available herein under.  The Subcontractor agrees that any violations of the EEOC shall constitute grounds for contract termination of this contract.

JC 008 PAYROLL AND RECORDS



008.1	The LAJCC will maintain payroll and basic records relating thereto during the course of work and will preserve them for a period of three (3) years thereafter.



008.2	The LAJCC will make the records required under this clause available for inspection by authorized representatives of the YWCA of Greater Los Angeles and the Federal Government and shall permit such representatives to interview Subcontractor during working hours on the job. 

JC 009 Privacy Act



009.1	The Subcontractor agrees to comply with Privacy Act of 1974, and the rules and regulations issued pursuant to the act in the performance of work under this contract.








EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:













CONTRACT No. LAJCC 2014-01



Between





[INSERT VENDOR NAME]

[INSERT ADDRESS]

[INSERT CITY, STATE, ZIP]

(Hereinafter “Subcontractor”)





And





YWCA of Greater Los Angeles Job Corps  

1031 S. Hill Street

Los Angeles, California 90015

(Hereinafter “LAJCC”)







Total Contract Amount:





Firm Fixed Price Contract: $###, ###.

For 

Copier Lease and Preventive Maintenance Services

                              

TERM: January 2014 – October 31, 2014



Plus Two Each One Year Options












EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:

Appendices



Supporting Documents: The Subcontractor shall furnish as appendices documents all financial statements, staff resumes as requested.



Additional Information: Include any additional information you deem essential to a proper evaluation of your proposal and which is not solicited in any of the preceding sections.  Proposers are cautioned, however, that this is not an invitation to submit large amounts of extraneous material; appendices should be relevant and brief.



This Agreement is dated as of this __________ day of _____________________ 2012__ by and between the YWCA OF GREATER LOS ANGELES, JOB CORPS CENTER, with offices in Los Angeles, California (hereinafter called "LAJCC") and ____________________________________ (hereinafter called "Subcontractor/Consultant").



RECITALS



The YWCA OF Greater Los Angeles, operator of LAJCC, a California Non-Profit 501c3, exists under the authority of Section 130050.2 ET. Seq. of the California Public Utilities Code;



LAJCC requires the services of a Subcontractor to provide the professional services as described in the Scope of Work;



LAJCC has determined that Subcontractor is qualified to perform the required services;



The Subcontractor is able and willing to perform the required services under the terms and conditions of this Contract and comply with all YWCA of Greater Los Angeles Job Corps rules and regulations.



NOW, THEREFORE, for the consideration hereinafter stated, the parties agree as follows:



	PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATIONS / SCOPE OF WORK



	The Subcontractor will lease the required copiers and shall perform the services and related tasks as more particularly described in Exhibit A, "Performance Specifications / Scope of Work" (hereinafter described as the "Services") and incorporated herein.



This Contract is not exclusive.  LAJCC expressly reserves the right to contract for performance of services such as those described herein through other Subcontractors.



	APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS AND PRECEDENCE OF DOCUMENTS



	The following documents are applicable to this contract and are contained herein or incorporated by reference:



	Exhibit A 			Performance Specifications / Scope of Work

Exhibit B			Responsible Contractor Form

Exhibit 1			Certification for request for payment 

Exhibit 2			Approved Subcontractors and Suppliers

	Proposal dated ________________________

	RFP No. ________________

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	This Contract is not exclusive.  LAJCC expressly reserves the right to contract for performance of services such as those described herein through other Subcontractors.



	APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS AND PRECEDENCE OF DOCUMENTS



	The following documents are applicable to this contract and are contained herein or incorporated by reference:



	Exhibit A 			Performance Specifications / Scope of Work

Exhibit B			Responsible Contractor Form

Exhibit 1			Certification for request for payment 

Exhibit 2			Approved Subcontractors and Suppliers

	Proposal dated ________________________

	RFP No. ________________



	In the event of conflict between any of the documents making up this Contract, the Contract Articles shall prevail over any other documents. The precedence of other documents shall be as in the order listed above.



	The precedence of the Contract Documents shall be as follows in the event of any conflict within the Contract Documents.



	1.	Amendments (later Amendments having precedence over earlier amendments), with each Amendment taking its order of precedence from the document it amends.

	2.	Contract Terms and Conditions

	3.	Compensation and Payment Provisions

	4.	Scope of Work (Attachment A)

	5.	RFP No. ___________



PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



	A.	The Subcontractor shall commence performance of the Services on ______________, and shall complete the performance of the Services by _________________, unless the date for completion is extended by mutual agreement of the parties in writing.



	B.	Neither party hereto shall be considered in default in the performance of its obligations with respect to schedule, to the extent that the performance of any such obligation is prevented or delayed by an excusable delay. Excusable delays may include, but are not limited to, Acts of God or acts or failures to act of government agencies or LAJCC in either their sovereign or contractual capacities; fires, floods, earthquakes, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, civil disturbance; but, in every case, the failure to perform must be reasonably beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence of the Subcontractor.



LAJCC may increase or decrease the number of copiers as required. The Contracting Officer may exercise the said option within 7 days prior to the contract expiration date by issuance of an appropriately funded unilateral modification to the contract citing this special contract requirement as authority.





EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



PAYMENT OF SUBCONTRACTOR



	A.	Subcontractor agrees to provide all personnel, facilities, materials and equipment required to complete, to the full satisfaction of LAJCC, all the Services described in the Scope of Work on a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) basis as set forth in this Article.  LAJCC agrees to pay as full compensation for the Services an amount of _________________ dollars ($___________).   Except as provided in the Article entitled "Changes in Scope of Work," the Firm Fixed Price is the compensation to be paid for completion of all Services.



	B.	Subcontractor shall submit monthly requests for payment and for Services rendered.  Subcontractor's request for payment shall be submitted in three copies, with one full copy of all supporting documentation satisfactory to LAJCC.  Said request for payment shall itemize the Services performed and contain one (1) copy of such documentation as required to support request for payment.  The request for payment shall be signed and submitted in triplicate on Subcontractor letterhead to the following address:



			Los Angeles Job Corps Center

			Accounts Payable

			1031 S. Hill Street

			Los Angeles, California 90012



		Within thirty days after receipt of an approved request for payment, the LAJCC shall pay ninety percent (95%) of the value thus determined and approved by LAJCC, less previous payment, if any.  The remaining five percent (5%) shall be retained by LAJCC until thirty (30) days expiration after the Services have been completed and accepted by LAJCC, at which time the Subcontractor shall submit an invoice for release of retention according to the terms of this Contract.  LAJCC may withhold any amounts which are disputed or which are payable to LAJCC pursuant to this Contract.



	PAYMENT OF SUBCONTRACTORS



	Commencing with the second invoice, the Subcontractor shall provide LAJCC with a certificate in the form identified in Exhibit 1 executed by the Subcontractor stating that all Subcontractors who have performed any services prior to the date of the certificate have been paid all amounts due them pursuant to the terms of their Subcontract Agreement.  The Subcontractor shall maintain proof of payment to each Subcontractor at its offices, consisting of canceled checks, evidence of electronic transfers, or other documentation, which shall be subject to examination and review by LAJCC at any time during the duration of this Contract.  The failure of the Subcontractor to provide the foregoing certificates, or the improper certification of any payments made to Subcontractors, may result in LAJCC withholding the amount in dispute until said dispute is resolved, or in exercising any other rights LAJCC may have under this Contract.



	PAYMENT OF TAXES



	The Subcontractor shall pay all taxes and duties applicable to and assessable against any work, equipment, materials, services, processes, and operations incidental to or involved in this Contract, including but not limited to retail sales and use, transportation, export, import, business, and special taxes. 

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



 The Subcontractor is responsible for ascertaining and acquainting itself with such taxes and making all necessary arrangements to pay them.  The prices established in this Contract shall include compensation for any taxes the Subcontractor is required to pay by laws and regulations in effect on the date the Proposal was submitted.  The Subcontractor will maintain auditable records subject to LAJCC reviews, confirming that tax payments are current at all times.



LAJCC'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (PROJECT MANAGER)



	LAJCC's Project Manager is the point of contact for the performance of this Contract.  The Subcontractor shall make such oral or written reports to LAJCC's Project Manager.  ALL CONTRACTUAL MATTERS SHALL BE ADDRESSED TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR OR DESIGNEE.



KEY PERSONNEL



	A.	The following are the key personnel assigned to perform the Services and their roles under this Contract.



		(Name, Title, Phone No., Role)



	B.	The Subcontractor shall not reassign such key personnel to other projects without LAJCC's prior written approval and until a satisfactory replacement has been approved by LAJCC.  The Subcontractor shall secure the prior written approval of LAJCC for any change or reassignment of the key personnel, submitting written documentation of the new individuals' qualifications.  LAJCC reserves the right to reject any key personnel identified.  If so, the Subcontractor will find an acceptable replacement.



	C.	The Subcontractor's Project Manager shall supervise and direct the Services, and have overall responsibility for the Services in accordance with this Contract.  The Subcontractor shall be solely responsible for implementation of all services, means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures and for coordination of all portions of the Services under this Contract.



	D.	If LAJCC provides office space to the Subcontractor, or requires Subcontractor to locate its office space in a specific location, then at all times during the performance of Services hereunder, only related Services shall be performed in such office space and Subcontractor shall not use such office space to perform non-Contract related work.



	AUDIT RIGHTS

	

The Subcontractor shall keep and maintain full and complete accounting books, records of account of its costs and expenses claimed to be due and payable relating to the performance of the services in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles. Upon reasonable advance written notice LAJCC, its representatives or other authorized agencies shall have access at all reasonable times to all records and data maintained by the Subcontractor for the purposes of performing financial, compliance and performance audits related to the Services under this agreement.  LAJCC shall also have the right to reproduce, photocopy, transcribe or download data and information at all reasonable times, and without charge.  LAJCC shall make reasonable efforts to assure that any such 

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



representative is not a competitor of the Subcontractor to which the disclosure of such information would have a detrimental effect on the Subcontractor’s business.  



The Subcontractor shall keep and preserve all such books, records, accounts, and any other documents for a period of a least three (3) years from and after completion of the Services after final payment or if this contract is terminated in whole or in part after the final termination agreement.





	INTERPRETATION



		The Subcontractor shall carefully and continuously study all Contract Documents; shall verify all figures in the Contract documents before performing the Services; shall promptly notify LAJCC of all errors, inconsistencies, and/or omissions that it discovers; and in instances where such non-conformities are discovered, shall obtain specific instructions in writing from LAJCC before the Subcontractor's proceeding with the Services.  Any Services affected, which are performed prior to LAJCC's decision, shall be at the Subcontractor's risk.  The Subcontractor shall not take advantage of any apparent non-conformity that may be found in the Contract Documents.  LAJCC shall be entitled to make such corrections and interpretations as it may deem necessary for the fulfillment of the intent of the Contract.  Omissions or misdescription of any Services that are clearly necessary to carry out the intent of the Contract, or that are customarily performed, shall not relieve the Subcontractor from performing such Services at no additional expense and/or delay, and such Services shall be performed as if fully and correctly set forth in the Contract.



	A.	Terms



		Where the terms "as indicated" and "as detailed," or words of similar import are used themselves, it shall be understood that reference is made to the Technical Specifications or other technical documents provided by LAJCC, unless otherwise expressly stated.  "Directed," "required," "permitted," "ordered," "designated," "selected," "approve," "accept," "satisfactory," "equal,", "necessary," or words of like import shall be understood to require an identifiable action by LAJCC unless otherwise expressly stated.



B.	References within the Contract



		References to Articles and Sub-Articles herein are made by citing the Title of the Articles only, e.g., a reference to this particular paragraph would be phased "in the Article entitled ‘INTERPRETATION,’ which would necessarily be inclusive of all other paragraphs in this Article.  However, where a reference is made to other paragraphs within the same Article, the reference is made as in the preceding sentence, i.e., "in this Article."  References to other Sections of the Contract are made by citing the title of the Section.



	




EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



C.	Explanations



		Should it appear that the Services to be performed or any relative matters are not sufficiently detailed or explained in the Contract, the Subcontractor shall request in writing from LAJCC a written explanation as may be necessary and shall conform to the explanation given.



	D.	Headings



		The various topical headings contained in the Contract are intended for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of the Contract or any of its provisions.



	CHANGES IN SCOPE OF WORK



	A.	LAJCC may, from time to time, make changes in Article 1  Scope of Work under this Contract, through a written amendment.  An amendment shall not modify the overall purpose of this Contract.



	B.	At any time during the term of this Contract, LAJCC may order Additional Services by an amendment to be performed by Subcontractor.  Additional Services are defined as services which were not contained in this Contract; but have been determined by LAJCC to be necessary; and bear a reasonable relation to the Services originally described in this Contract.



	C.	If any change under this Article causes an increase or decrease in the Subcontractor's cost of, or the time required for the performance of any part of the Services, an equitable adjustment in the compensation and schedule will be made in the amendment, which shall be incorporated into this Contract by written amendment.  The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to make any changes in the Services or perform any Additional Services unless authorized in advance by written amendment.  Upon receipt of an amendment approved by LAJCC, the Subcontractor shall continue performance of the Scope of Work as modified by the amendment.



	D.	Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Contract, when costs are a factor in any determination of a contract price adjustment, such costs shall be in accordance with the applicable cost principles of Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") in effect on the date of this Contract.



	NOTICE OF CLAIMS 



	A.	The Subcontractor shall give to LAJCC a written notice of potential claim within five (5) days of any act or event for which it intends to seek adjustment in this Contract price, terms, or schedule.  The written notice shall set forth the basis of the claim and an estimate of any costs involved.  The claim shall be filed within 30 days of the act or event and shall be in sufficient detail to allow LAJCC to evaluate the claim.  The Subcontractor shall also furnish any additional information relating to the claim as 




EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



		LAJCC may request.  Failure of the Subcontractor to comply with these requirements shall be sufficient cause for denying the Subcontractor's claim.



	B.	LAJCC shall, within 30 days of the receipt of the claim, render a decision or provide an estimate of when a decision will be made.  If no decision is made within 30 days of the filing of the claim, or within any extended period mutually agreed to in writing by the parties, the claim shall be deemed rejected by LAJCC.  The Subcontractor shall proceed diligently with performance of the Contract, pending resolution of any claim or appeal or action ensuing under the Contract.

	

DISPUTES



	In the event of a disagreement, or dispute arising between the parties under this Contract, LAJCC shall, upon its own initiative or promptly upon the written request of Subcontractor, make a determination thereof and such determination shall be complied with.  Pending final resolution of any dispute hereunder, Subcontractor shall continue diligently to perform the Services under this Contract and in accordance with LAJCC's decision or position concerning the disputed matter.



	UNAUTHORIZED WORK



	Any services not required by the terms of this Contract that are performed without written authority from LAJCC, will be considered as unauthorized and at the sole expense of the Subcontractor.  Services so performed will not be paid for, and no extension in the period of performance shall be granted on account thereof.



PERMITS



	Except for any permits furnished by LAJCC, the Subcontractor shall be fully responsible for identifying and obtaining, at its own expense, all necessary licenses and permits required for the timely prosecution of the Services.  



	NO WAIVER

	

	None of the provisions of this Contract shall be considered waived by either party hereto unless such waiver is reduced to writing and signed by both parties.  No such waiver shall be construed as a modification of any of the provisions of this Contract or as a waiver of any past or future default or breach hereof, except as expressly stated in such waiver.



	INSPECTION OF SERVICES, ACCEPTANCE



	A.	LAJCC reserves the right to inspect all and every part of the Services at any time during the performance and after completion, at its discretion.  



	B.	If the Services or any part thereof have not been performed in accordance with this Contract, the Subcontractor will be notified in writing that such Services are rejected.  Thereupon, the Subcontractor shall take the necessary corrective action.  LAJCC shall not be obligated to make any inspections, however, and neither the inspection of the Services, nor the lack thereof, shall relieve the Subcontractor of its responsibility for performing and providing the Services in accordance with the terms of this Contract.

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE 



	A.	LAJCC may, by written notice to the Subcontractor, terminate this Contract in whole or in part at any time, for LAJCC's convenience.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Subcontractor shall:  (a) Comply with the date so stated in the Notice to discontinue all services affected. 



	B.	If the termination is for the convenience of LAJCC, Subcontractor shall submit a final invoice within 60 days of termination and upon approval by LAJCC, LAJCC shall pay Subcontractor a percentage of the total Contract price based on the percentage of the Services completed prior to the effective date of termination and other costs reasonably incurred by the Subcontractor to implement the termination.  



	C.	The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to anticipatory or consequential damages as a result of any termination under this Article.  Payment to the Subcontractor in accordance with this Article shall constitute the Subcontractor's exclusive remedy for any termination hereunder.  The rights and remedies of LAJCC provided in this Article are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Contract.



	TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT 



	A.	LAJCC may, by written notice to the Subcontractor, terminate this Contract in whole or in part at any time because of the failure of the Subcontractor to fulfill its contractual obligations.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Subcontractor shall:  (a) immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice directs otherwise), and (b) deliver to LAJCC all information and material as may have been prepared or developed by the Subcontractor or its Subcontractors in performing this Contract, whether completed or in process.  Termination of this Contract shall be as of the date of receipt by the Subcontractor of such notice.



	B.	If the termination is due to the failure of the Subcontractor to fulfill its contractual obligations, LAJCC may take over the services, and complete the services by contract or otherwise.  In such case, the Subcontractor shall be liable to LAJCC for any reasonable costs or damages occasioned to LAJCC thereby.  



		The expense of completing the Services, or any other costs or damages otherwise resulting from failure of the Subcontractor to fulfill its obligations, will be charged to the Subcontractor and will be deducted by LAJCC out of such payments as may be due or may at any time thereafter become due to LAJCC.  If such costs and expenses are in excess of the sum which otherwise would have been payable to the Subcontractor, then the Subcontractor shall promptly pay the amount of such excess to LAJCC upon notice of the excess so due.



	C.	If, after the notice of termination for failure to fulfill Contract obligations, it is determined that the Subcontractor has not so failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected for the convenience of LAJCC.  In such event, adjustment shall be made as provided in Article 17, Termination for Convenience.



	D.	The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to anticipatory or consequential damages as a result of any termination under this Article.  Payment to the Subcontractor in 

	

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



		accordance with this Article shall constitute the Subcontractor's exclusive remedy for any termination hereunder.  The rights and remedies of LAJCC provided in this Article are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Contract.



ASSIGNMENT



		The Subcontractor shall not assign its interest in this Contract without prior written consent of LAJCC.  Assignment is read to mean corporate name changes; mergers; and sale of assets, total or partial.



	INSURANCE



	Subcontractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the performance of the Services hereunder by the Subcontractor, its agents, representatives, or employees.



	A.	Insurance coverage shall be at least as broad as:



		1.	Insurance Services Office Commercial General Liability coverage (occurrence form CG 0001).



		2.	Insurance Services Office form number CA 0001 (Ed. 1/87) covering Automobile Liability, code 1 (any auto).



		3.	Workers' Compensation insurance as required by the State of California and Employer's Liability Insurance.



		4.	Errors and Omissions Liability insurance appropriate to the Subcontractor's profession.



	B.	Subcontractor shall maintain limits of insurance no less than:



		1.	General Liability:  $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage.  If Commercial General Liability Insurance or other form with a general aggregate limit is used, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.



		2.	Automobile Liability:  $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.

		

		3.	Employer's Liability:  $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.

		

		4.	Errors and omissions liability:  $1,000,000 per occurrence.






EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	For all insurance coverages provided by the Subcontractors the following terms apply:



	C.	Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by LAJCC.  At its option, LAJCC may require the Subcontractor, at the Subcontractor's sole expense, to:  (a) cause its insurer to reduce to levels specified by LAJCC or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects LAJCC, its officials and employees; or (b) procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.

	D.	The general liability and automobile liability policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:



		1.	LAJCC, its subsidiaries, officials and employees are to be covered as insured as respects:  liability arising out of activities performed by or on behalf of the Subcontractor; products and completed operations of the Subcontractor; premises owned, occupied or used by the Subcontractor; or automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the Subcontractor.  The coverage shall contain no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to LAJCC, its subsidiaries, officials and employees.



		2.	For any claims related to the Services, the Subcontractor's insurance coverage shall be primary insurance as respects LAJCC, its subsidiaries, officials and employees.  Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by LAJCC, its subsidiaries, officials and employees shall be excess of the Subcontractor's insurance and shall not contribute with it.



		3.	Any failure to comply with reporting or other provisions of the policies including breaches of warranties shall not affect coverage provided to LAJCC, its subsidiaries, officials and employees.



		4.	The Subcontractor's insurance shall apply separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.



		5.	Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that coverage shall not be suspended, voided, canceled by either party, reduced in coverage or in limits except after thirty (30) days prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, has been given to LAJCC.



Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.A. Best's rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to LAJCC.



	F.	The Subcontractor shall furnish LAJCC with original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause.  The endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf.  The endorsements are to be on forms provided by LAJCC.  All endorsements are to be received and approved by LAJCC before work commences.  As an alternative to LAJCC's forms, the Subcontractor's insurer may provide complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements affecting the coverage required by this Contract.  All Certificates of Insurance shall reference the contract number on the certificate.



EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



INDEMNIFICATION



	A.	The Subcontractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless LAJCC, its subsidiaries and its officers, agents and employees from and against any and all liability and expenses including defense costs and legal fees and claims for damages of any nature whatsoever, arising out of the performance of the Services described herein, caused in whole or in part by any negligent act or omission of the 

		Subcontractor, any Subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by any of them or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable including, without limitation, any costs or liability on account of (1) bodily injury, death or personal injury of any person or for damage to or loss of use of property (including property of LAJCC), and (2) LAJCC's reliance upon or use of data or other information provided or delivered by the Subcontractor pursuant to this Contract.



	B.	This indemnification shall apply even in the event of the act, omission, fault, or negligence, whether active or passive, of the party or parties to be indemnified, but shall not apply to liability, expenses, claims or damages arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the party or parties to be indemnified.  This indemnity shall survive termination of this Contract or final payment hereunder.



	C.	This indemnification is in addition to any other rights or remedies which LAJCC may have under the law or under this Contract.  In the event of any claim, or demand made against any party which is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, LAJCC may, at its sole discretion, reserve, retain, or apply any monies due to Subcontractor under this Contract for the purpose of resolving such claims; however, LAJCC may release such funds if Subcontractor provides LAJCC with reasonable assurance of protection of LAJCC's interest.  LAJCC shall, at its discretion, determine whether such assurance is reasonable.



	STANDARD OF PERFORMANCE



	A.	The Subcontractor shall perform and require its Subcontractors to perform the Services in accordance with the requirements of this Contract and in accordance with professional standards of skill, care, and diligence adhered to by FIRMS recognized for their expertise, experience and knowledge in performing services of a similar nature.  The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, completeness, and coordination of the Services, it being understood that LAJCC will be relying upon such professional quality, accuracy, completeness, and coordination in utilizing the Services.  The foregoing obligations and standards shall constitute the "Standard of Performance" for purposes of this Contract.



	B.	All workers shall have sufficient skill and experience to perform the work assigned to them.  LAJCC shall have the right, in its absolute discretion to require the removal of the Subcontractor's personnel at any level assigned to the performance of the Services at no additional fee to LAJCC, if LAJCC considers such removal necessary in its best interests and requests such removal in writing.  Further, an employee who is dismissed for any of the above reasons shall not be re-employed on this Contract.     



	




EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	C.	The Subcontractor shall carefully study this Contract; shall verify all figures in this Contract Documents before performing the Services; shall promptly notify LAJCC of all errors, inconsistencies, and/or omissions that it discovers; and, in instances where such non-conformities are discovered, shall obtain specific instructions in writing from LAJCC before Subcontractor's proceeding with the Services.   Any Services affected which are performed prior to LAJCC's decision shall be at the Subcontractor's risk.  The Subcontractor shall not take advantage of any apparent non-conformity that may be found in this Contract.  LAJCC shall be entitled to make such corrections therein and interpretations thereof as it may deem necessary for the fulfillment of the intent of this Contract.  Omissions or misdescription of any Services that are manifestly necessary to carry out the intent of this Contract, or that are customarily performed, shall not relieve the Subcontractor from performing such Services at no additional expense and/or delay, and such Services shall be performed as if fully and correctly set forth in this Contract.



	WARRANTY



	The Subcontractor warrants that all Services shall be in accordance with this Contract and shall comply with the Standard of Performance for a period of one year from final acceptance of the Services.  In the event of breach of this warranty, the Subcontractor shall take the necessary actions to correct the breach and the consequences thereof, at the Subcontractor's sole expense, in the most expeditious manner as permitted by existing circumstances.  If the Subcontractor does not promptly take steps to correct the breach upon notification thereof by LAJCC, LAJCC without waiving any other rights or remedies it may have at law or otherwise, may do so or cause others to do so, and the Subcontractor shall promptly reimburse LAJCC for all expenses and costs incurred in connection therewith.



EEO/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION 



In connection with the execution of this Contract, Subcontractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, age over 40, religion, color, sex, national origin, ancestry, disability (including AIDS), cancer related medical condition, or marital status.  Subcontractor shall take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or disability status.  Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following:  employment upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.  Subcontractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local directives and executive orders regarding nondiscrimination in employment, the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code Section 12900 et. seq.) and the applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.  Subcontractor shall include the provisions of this Article in all of Subcontractor's subcontracts with respect to work under this Contract, unless exempted by the Regulations



	




EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



		SUBCONTRACTOR STATUS/SUBCONTRACTORS



		A.	The Subcontractor represents that it is fully experienced and properly qualified to perform the class of services required for this Contract and that it is properly licensed, equipped, organized, and financed to perform the Services.  The Subcontractor shall be an independent Subcontractor.  The Subcontractor is not an agent of LAJCC in the performance of this Contract, and shall maintain complete control over its employees and its Subcontractors and Suppliers of any tier.  Nothing contained in this Contract or any Subcontract awarded by the Subcontractor shall create any contractual relationship between any Subcontractor and LAJCC. 



 The Subcontractor shall perform the Services in accordance with its own methods, in compliance with the terms of the Contract.



	B.	Services to be furnished hereunder shall be deemed to be unique personal services and except as herein provided, Subcontractor shall not assign, subcontract, transfer or otherwise substitute its interest in this Contract or its obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of LAJCC.  This consent shall in no way relieve the Subcontractor from its primary responsibility for performance of the Services.  Any such assignment without said consent shall be void and unenforceable.



	C.	LAJCC reserves the right of prior approval of all Subcontractors and retains the right to request Subcontractor to terminate any Subcontractor, for any reason deemed appropriate by LAJCC, by so notifying Subcontractor in writing.  Should said notification be submitted to Subcontractor, it shall terminate said Subcontractor immediately.  LAJCC has approved of Subcontractors and suppliers identified in Exhibit 2.



	D.	LAJCC shall have no liability to any Subcontractor(s) for payment for services under this Contract or other work performed for Subcontractor, and any subcontract entered into by Subcontractor under this Contract shall duly note that the responsibility for payment for the technical services or any other services performed shall be the sole responsibility of Subcontractor.

	

PROHIBITED INTERESTS



	A.	Subcontractor warrants that it has not employed or retained any company or person, other than a bonafide employee working solely for Subcontractor, to solicit or secure this Contract and that is has not paid or agreed to pay any company or person, other than a bonafide employee working solely for Subcontractor, any fee, commission, percentage, brokerage fee, gifts or any other consideration, contingent upon or resulting from the award or making of this Contract.  For breach of this warranty, or violation of any other prohibition in this Article, LAJCC shall have the right to terminate this Contract for failure of Subcontractor to fulfill its Contract obligations.



	




EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	B.	Subcontractor agrees that, for the term of this Contract, no member, officer, or employee of LAJCC, or of a local public body during their employment and for one (1) year thereafter, or member or delegate to the Congress of the United States, shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in this Contract, or to any benefit arising thereof as prohibited by Government Code Sections 1090 et. seq. and 87100 et. seq.



	

	C.	The employment by Subcontractor of personnel on the payroll of LAJCC  for the performance of Services under this Contract will not be permitted, even though such employment may be outside of the employee's regular working hours or on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or vacation time.  The employment by the Subcontractor of personnel who have been on LAJCC payroll within one (1) year prior to the date of Contract award, where such employment is  caused by and/or dependent upon Subcontractor securing this Contract or a related contract with LAJCC, is also prohibited.



	D.	Neither the Subcontractor nor its employees nor its Subcontractors or their employees shall give or offer to give any DONATIONS, GIFTS, MONIES, to any member of LAJCC in violation of Government Code Section 84308.



	

THE SUBCONTRACTOR'S INTERACTION WITH THE MEDIA AND THE PUBLIC



	A.	LAJCC shall review and approve all LAJCC related copy proposed to be used by the Subcontractor for advertising or public relations purposes prior to publication.  The Subcontractor shall not allow LAJCC related copy to be published in its advertisements and public relations programs prior to receiving such approval.  The Subcontractor shall ensure that all published information is factual and that it does not in any way imply that LAJCC endorses the Subcontractor's firm, service, and/or product.



	B.	The Subcontractor shall refer all inquiries from the news media to LAJCC, and shall comply with the procedures of LAJCC's Public Affairs staff regarding statements to the media relating to this Contract or the Services.



	C.	The Copier firm shall designate a member of their staff who is acceptable to LAJCC to keep LAJCC informed of all impacts on the community resulting from the services acquired under this Contract.  This designated staff person does not need to be full time.



	D.	If the Subcontractor receives a complaint from a citizen or the community, the Subcontractor shall inform LAJCC about what action was taken to alleviate the situation.






	

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



CONFIDENTIALITY



	Subcontractor agrees that for and during the entire term of this Contract, any information, data, figures, records, findings and the like received or generated by the Subcontractor in the performance of this Contract, shall be considered and kept as the private and privileged records of LAJCC and will not be divulged to any person, firm, corporation, or other entity except on the direct authorization of LAJCC.  Further, upon termination of this Contract for any cause, Subcontractor agrees that it will continue to treat as private and privileged any information, data, figures, records and the like, and will not release any such information to any person, firm, corporation or other entity, either by statement, deposition, or as a witness, except upon direct written authority of LAJCC.



	PUBLIC RECORDS ACT



	A.	All records, documents, drawings, plans, specifications and other material relating to conduct of LAJCC's business, including materials submitted by Subcontractor in its Proposal and during the course of performing the Services under this Contract shall become the exclusive property of LAJCC and shall be deemed public records.  Said materials are subject to the provisions of the California Public Records Act (Government Code sections 6250 et. seq.).  LAJCC's use and disclosure of its records are governed by this Act.



	B.	LAJCC will not advise as to the nature or content of documents entitled to protection from disclosure under the California Public Records Act, including interpretations of the Act or the definitions of "TRADE SECRET".  LAJCC will accept materials clearly and prominently labeled "TRADE SECRET" or "CONFIDENTIAL" or "PROPRIETARY" as determined by the Subcontractor.  LAJCC will endeavor to notify the Subcontractor of any request of the disclosure of such materials.  Under no circumstances, however will LAJCC be liable or responsible for the disclosure of any such labeled materials whether the disclosure is required by law or a court order or occurs through inadvertence, mistakes or negligence on the part of LAJCC or its officers, employees, and/or Subcontractors.  



	C.	In the event of litigation concerning the disclosure of any material submitted by the Subcontractor, LAJCC's sole involvement will be as a stake holder, retaining the material until otherwise ordered by a court.  The Subcontractor, at its sole expense and risk, shall be responsible for prosecuting or defending any action concerning the materials, and shall indemnify and hold LAJCC harmless from all costs and expenses including attorneys' fees, in connection with such action.



	COMPLIANCE WITH LAW



	The Subcontractor shall familiarize itself with and perform the work required under this Contract in conformity with requirements and standards of LAJCC, municipal and public agencies, public and private utilities, special districts, and railroad agencies whose facilities and services may be affected by work under this Contract.  The Subcontractor shall also comply with all Federal, California and local laws and ordinances applicable to any of the Services involved in this Contract including, without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities Act.

EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



GOVERNING LAW



	The validity of this Contract and of any of its terms or provisions, as well as the rights and duties of the parties hereunder, shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.



	SEVERABILITY



	In the event any Article, section, Sub Article, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase contained in this Contract shall be determined, declared, or adjudged invalid, illegal, unconstitutional, or otherwise unenforceable, such determination, declaration, or adjudication shall in no manner affect the other Articles, sections, Sub Articles, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Contract, which shall remain in full force and effect as if the Article, section, Sub Article, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase declared, determined, or adjudged invalid, illegal, unconstitutional, or otherwise unenforceable, was not originally contained in this Contract.

	

ALCOHOL AND DRUGFREE WORKPLACE PROGRAM



	To the extent the work required under this contract is performed on property owned or controlled by LAJCC, the Subcontractor shall also be responsible for complying with the “LAJCC  SOP Drug & Alcohol Abuse Policy” a copy of which is available upon request.



DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE



A.	Definitions.  As used in this clause, “Controlled substance” means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) and as further defined in regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11-1308.15;

“Conviction” means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes;



“Criminal drug statute” means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of any controlled substance;



“Drug-free workplace” means the site(s) for the performance of work done by the Subcontractor in connection with a specific contract at which employees of the Subcontractor are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance;



Employee” means an employee of the Subcontractor directly engaged in the performance of work under an LAJCC contract.  Directly engaged in defined to include all direct cost employees and any other Subcontractor employee who has other than a minimal impact of involvement in contract performance. “Individual” means an offeror/Subcontractor that has no more than one employee 

including the offeror/Subcontractor.



B.	The Subcontractor, if other than an individual, shall within 30 calendar days after award (unless a longer period is agreed to in writing for contracts of 30 calendar days or more performance duration), or as soon as possible for contracts of less than 30 calendar days performance duration:



EXHIBIT B Sample Form of Contract:



	1)	Publish a statement notifying its employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the Subcontractor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violations of such prohibition;



	2)	Establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform such employees about-



			I)	The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 

			ii)	The Subcontractor's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;

	iii)	Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and 

		iv)	The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.



	3)	Provide all employees engaged in performance of the contract with a copy of the statement required by subparagraph (B) (1) of this clause;



	4)	Notify such employees in writing in the statement required by subparagraph (B) (1) of this clause that, as a condition of continued employment on this contract, the employee will;



			I)	Abide by the terms of the statement; and 



		ii)	Notify the employer in writing of the employee's conviction under a criminal drug statute for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than 5 calendar days after such conviction.



	5)	Notify the Contracting Officer in writing within 10 calendar days after receiving notice under subdivision (B)(4)(ii) of this clause, from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction.  The notice shall include the position title of the employee;



	6)	Within 10 calendar days after receiving notice under subdivision (B) (4) (ii) of this clause of a conviction, take one of the following actions with respect to any employee who is convicted of a drug abuse violation occurring in the workplace:



		I)	Taking appropriate personnel action against such employee, up to and including termination; or



			ii)	Require such employee to satisfactorily participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.



	7)	make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of subparagraphs (B) (1) through (B) (6) of this clause.



C.	The Subcontractor, if an individual, agrees by award of the contract or acceptance of a purchase order, not to engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing possession, or use of a controlled substance in the performance of this contract.



In addition to other remedies available to LAJCC, the Subcontractor's failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (B) or (C) of this clause may, pursuant to FAR 23.506, render the Subcontractor subject to suspension of contract payments, termination of the contract for default, and suspension or debarment.



NOTIFICATION



	All notices hereunder and communications regarding interpretation of the terms of this Contract or changes thereto shall be effected by the mailing thereof by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed as follows:



	To LAJCC

	YWCA of Greater Los Angeles			To Subcontractor:

	

			 					(Address)	

	1031 S. Hill Street

	Los Angeles, CA  90012



	Attn:	Victor Abadia					Attn: __________________

		Administrative Services 

		Division Director or designee 

		Contract No. LAJCC 2014-01	



ENTIRE AGREEMENT



	This Contract, and any attachments or documents incorporated herein by inclusion or by reference, constitutes the complete and entire agreement between LAJCC and Subcontractor and supersedes any prior representations, understandings, communications, commitments, agreements or proposals, oral or written.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed on the date shown below, but effective on the date first hereinabove written.



SUBCONTRACTOR						YWCA OF GREATER LOS ANGELES 

[Name of Firm]							JOB CORPS CENTER

								

________________________________	  	By: ______________________________

[Name]							Faye Washington 

							CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

		

_______________________________

[Title]



______________________________

[Date]



							

Tax I.D. No. _________________				

EXHIBIT C - Non-Collusion Affidavit

NONCOLLUSION AFFIDAVIT TO BE EXECUTED BY PROPOSER

AND SUBMITTED WITH ITS PROPOSAL





(Name) _______________________________________, being first duly sworn, disposes and says that he or she is (Title) _________________________________ of (Company) _____________________________, the party making the foregoing proposal, that the proposal is not made in the interest of, or on behalf of, any undisclosed person, partnership, company, association, organization, or corporation; that the proposal is genuine and not collusive or sham; that the proposer has not directly or indirectly induced any other proposer to put in a false or sham proposal, and has not directly or indirectly colluded, conspired, connived, or agreed with any proposer or anyone else to put in a sham proposal, or that anyone shall refrain from proposing; that the proposer has not in any manner, directly, or indirectly, sought by agreement, communication, or conference with anyone to fix the proposal price of the proposer or any other proposer, or to secure any advantage against the public body awarding the contract of anyone interested in the proposed contract; that all statements contained in the proposal are true; and further, that the proposer has not, directly or indirectly, submitted his or her proposal price or any breakdown thereof, or the contents thereof, or divulged information or data relative thereto, or paid, and will not pay, any fee to any corporation, partnership, company, association, organization, bid depository, or to any member or agent thereof to effectuate a collusion or sham proposal.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Noncollusion Affidavit this __________ day of ____________________, 2012.











PROPOSER _________________________________________

                (Type or Print Complete Legal Name of Firm)



By ______________________________________________

                                        (Signature)



Name____________________________________________

                                      (Type or Print)



Title _____________________________________________



Address __________________________________________



City ________________________ State _____ Zip ________




EXHIBIT D - Non-Discrimination Certification

CERTIFICATION OF NON-DISCRIMINATION

TO BE EXECUTED BY PROPOSER

AND SUBMITTED WITH ITS PROPOSAL



Proposer hereby certifies that in performing work or providing services for the _____________________, there shall be no discrimination in its hiring or employment practices because of age, sex, race, color, ancestry, national origin, religious creed, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, or sexual orientation, except as provided for in Section 12940 of the California Government Code.  Proposer shall comply with applicable federal and California anti-discrimination laws, including but not limited to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, beginning with Section 12900 of the California Government Code.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate of Non-Discrimination this __________ day of ____________________, 2012.



PROPOSER _________________________________________

                (Type or Print Complete Legal Name of Firm)

By ______________________________________________

                                        (Signature)

Name____________________________________________

                                      (Type or Print)

Title _____________________________________________



Address __________________________________________



City ________________________ State _____ Zip ________


EXHIBIT E - Confidentiality Agreement



CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT



The undersigned, a duly authorized officer of 

_________________________________________________________,



Does hereby represent, warrant and agree to the following statement:



All financial, statistical, personal, technical or other data and information relating to the _____________’s operation which are designated confidential by the __________ and made available to the undersigned shall be protected by the undersigned from unauthorized use and disclosure.











Date: _________________________	___________________________________

							    Name of Proposer





						By: _______________________________

							     Authorized Officer


EXHIBIT F- Cost Price Proposal





Proposer shall submit a fixed price figure based on EXHIBIT A: Specification.  

Proposer shall submit a monthly rate to accommodate the Lease and Preventive Maintenance services as identified in EX HIBIT A: Scope of Services. 

TERM:  				

Base Period Monthly Cost			$_________ Jan 2014   –     Oct 31, 2014



2.  Option Year One Monthly Cost 	$_________ Nov 1st, 2014 – Oct 31, 2015



3. Option Year Two Monthly Cost		$_________ Nov 1st, 2015 – Oct 31, 2016




EXHIBIT G PROTEST-



EXHIBIT G – LAJCC-2014-RFP-01 PROTESTS AND APPEALS



I.  OVERVIEW



It is the policy of the YWCA/Los Angeles Job corps Center to afford due process to subcontractors or vendors that have participated in a competitive procurement process and believe they have not been accorded fair treatment or that the selection process was materially flawed.



This process extends to subcontractors or vendors whose bids have been rejected as “non-responsive” to a solicitation or which have been declared “non-responsible” and ineligible for award.  At the same time, it is not the YWCA/Los Angeles Job Corps Center’s intent to unnecessarily delay the award of contracts resulting from legitimate processes or provide a forum for bidders interested solely in denying business to their competitors.



Accordingly, this section establishes the rules and procedures for subcontractors or vendors to protest the recommended awards resulting from requests for quotes, invitations for bids or request for proposals.



II. PROCESS



A.	Filing of Protest



A subcontractor or vendor that has submitted a quote, a bid or proposal and wishes to lodge a protest against the award to another subcontractor or vendor (hereafter in this section, “Protestor”); the subcontractor or vendor must comply with the following:

	

1.	Submit such protest in writing to the Purchasing Manager.



2.	The protest must be submitted within two (2) business days of notification of the proposed award; and shall include the following information:

	

	(a)	Name, address, and fax and telephone numbers of the protester.

	(b)	Solicitation or contract number.

	(c)	Copies of relevant documents.

	

3. 	The protest letter must state the basis for the protest and the remedy sought.



B.	Disposition of Protest



	Upon receipt of a protest, the Purchasing Manager will:



	1.	Suspend award pending disposition of the protest;



2.	Notify the supplier recommended for award (hereafter in this section, “Awardee”) about the protest; and



3.	Invite the Awardee to submit, within two (2) business days of notice of the bid protest, any information in support of the award.



If the Purchasing Manager upholds the protest, this decision and its basis will be conveyed in writing to the Protestor, the Awardee, and any other subcontractor or vendor that submitted a quote, bid or proposal.  The communication will also declare the Purchasing Manager’s intention to:  (a) award to another supplier, or (b) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit quotes, bids or proposals, or (c) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit for at least (1) month. 



If the Purchasing Manager denies the protest, this decision and its basis will be conveyed in writing to the Protestor and all other suppliers that submitted a quote, bid or request for proposal.  In denying the protest, the Purchasing Manager may declare the Purchasing Unit’s intention to: (a) award to the Awardee, or (b) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit quotes, bids  or request for proposals, or (c) cancel the solicitation and not re-solicit for at least (1) month.



Whether upholding or denying the protest, if the Purchasing Manager elects to cancel the solicitation and not re-solicit for at least one (1) month, the decision on the protest and action will be deemed final and there will be no further avenue of appeal for any party.



C.	Appeal



Except where the Purchasing Manager’s decision is deemed final as stipulated above, any subcontractor or vendor notified of the Purchasing Manager’s decision on a protest must, within two (2) business days of notice, appeal the decision in writing to the LAJCC Contracting Officer (CO) and include in the appeal to the CO the same information as required for the original protest.  The disposition of the appeal will be handled in the same manner as the protest.



The CO decision on the appeal will be conveyed to all parties in writing.  .



The last appeal will be the YWCA/Los Angeles Job Corps Chief Executive Officer, whose decision in the matter will be final.  Such decision will be communicated to all parties in writing within a reasonable time period after the decision is made.



D.	Recordkeeping



File records containing documentation on subcontractors or vendors protests and appeals, including but not limited to correspondence and written decisions, shall be maintained by the Office of the Purchasing Manager.



Files should be kept in a chronological, complete and orderly manner as these documents constitute the administrative record for the process afforded to a specific subcontractor or vendor in a particular case and could be exposed in potential litigation with a subcontractor or vendor or subject to a California Public Records Act request.



F.	Legal Authority and Citations



	Public Contract Code sections 10290, 20650-20660, 22030-22045

	Government Code section 53060

	Government Code sections 6250-6270

	Executive Order 12979, Agency Procurement Protests




EXHIBIT 1





CERTIFICATION FOR REQUEST FOR PAYMENT







I hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that--





1.	The amounts requested are only for performance in accordance with the terms and conditions of Contract No. ______________;



2.	Payments to Subcontractors and suppliers have been made from previous payments received under Contract No. ______________ and timely payments will be made from the proceeds of the payment covered by this certification, in accordance with subcontract agreements.



3.	This request for progress payments does not include any amount which the Subcontractor intends to withhold or retain from a Subcontractor or supplier in accordance with the terms and conditions of the subcontract.





	__________________________________

	(Signature)





	__________________________________

	(Name)





	__________________________________

	(Title)





	__________________________________

	(Company)





	__________________________________

	(Date)



	EXHIBIT 2





	APPROVED SUBCONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS









Subcontractor     Services to Be Provided	           License Type and Number	DBE/MBE/WBE

												         	  		(if applicable)

Name

Address

Phone





Supplier		Material Supplied	DBE/MBE/WBE



Name

Address

Phone





	






EXHIBIT 3

Inappropriate relations between staff and students



Listed below, as a reminder, are some of the inappropriate relations, actions or activities that the Los Angeles Job Corps Center considers to be serious infractions of Job Corps Center policies, rules and procedures.  This is not a complete list.  Any staff member found to have conducted such inappropriate actions or relations will be disciplined and may be discharged from LAJCC.

Sexual promiscuity

Illegal activity

Unauthorized visit or outing

Loaning or borrowing money

Granting special favors which involve collaborating with the students and/or other staff member to go against Job Corps Center rules and procedures, including misreporting the time a student returns late to the Center, and withholding or destroying evidence of student misbehavior

Allowing or participating in the illegal use, transfer or sale of drugs and alcohol or of any other prohibited items on, in or around the Center grounds or facilities or anywhere else

Without exception, being with students when off duty without written authorization

Granting or asking for special favors, or otherwise favoring some students

Behaving in a manner or making a suggestive comment that is sexist in nature 



Inappropriate reporting by staff of inappropriate activities or relationships between staff and students and former-students. 



Staff working closely together in an agency such as the Job Corps Center may expect at some time to be reported to management for inappropriate behavior, whether or not such allegations are founded on facts or on mere speculation.  In any event, when such reporting occurs, steps will be taken to ascertain the facts so that appropriate actions can be taken.

It is a serious infraction of Job Corps Center rules when a staff member is informed of an alleged incident or has a reason to believe that an inappropriate relationship exists or an inappropriate action or activity has taken place and does not report the incident to an appropriate Job Corps Center manager.  Staff members do not bear responsibility for investigation allegations of inappropriate relations or activities in order to determine their validity prior to reporting.  Indeed, such efforts often confuse and complicate further formal investigation.

Any staff member who observes inappropriate activity or who receives any information alleging any inappropriate activity or relationship between staff and students/ex-students will immediately advise their supervisor, division director and/or human resources manager. Staff will be disciplined, including possible termination of employment with the Job Corps Center, for withholding information in such instances, for failing to report such information or knowledge in a timely and complete fashion, and for failing to cooperate in general in resolving the issues.





ACKNOWLEDGED BY:

	

	__________________________________

	(Signature)





	__________________________________

	(Name)





	__________________________________

	(Title)





	__________________________________

	(Company)





	__________________________________

	(Date)




LOS ANGELES JOB CORPS CENTER

                                                  1020 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, California 90015

                                     Telephone (213) 748-0135



                                   Operated by the YWCA Greater Los Angeles





ATTACHMENTS TO THE SOLICITATION



The following attached forms and documents are organized into two major groupings:



Group A must be complete and returned as part of your quotation or proposal.

Group B are provided for information purposes only in preparing your quotation or proposal.

_____________________________________________________________________________

(Please return the following forms with your proposal.)



Attachment 1		Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Letter

Attachment 5		Responsible Perspective Contractor

Attachment 10		Taxpayer Identification

____________________________________________________________________________

(Information purposes only.)



Attachment 2	Executive Order 11246 – Equal Employment Opportunity Subpart B – Contractor’s Agreements

Attachment 3	Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb. 1999)

Attachment 4	Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998)

Attachment 6	Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Flowdown Clauses for Job Corps Vendors

Attachment 7	Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept. 2006)

Attachment 8	Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct. 2010)

Attachment 9	Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sept. 2007)

Attachment 11	Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Dec. 2010)

Attachment 12	Audit and Records – Negotiation (Oct. 2010)

Attachment 13	Notification of Ownership Changes (Oct. 1997)

Attachment 14	Equal Opportunity (Mar. 2007)

Attachment 15	Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep. 2010)

Attachment 16	Affirmative Procurement of EPA-designated items in Service and Construction Contracts (May 2008)

Attachment 17	 Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (Dec. 2007)

Attachment 18	 Rights in Data-General (Dec. 2007)

Attachment 19	 Cost Accounting Standards (Oct. 2010)

Attachment 20 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment and Vegetation

Attachment 21	Bankruptcy (July 1995)

Attachment 22	Subcontracts (Oct. 2010)




Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Flowdown Clauses for Job Corps Vendors 	

Page 2 of 3



52.202-1	Definitions (Jan 2012) 			52.223-12 	Refrigeration and Air	

52.203-5	Covenant Against Contingent Fees 			Conditioning Equipment (May 1995) 

		(Apr 1984) 				52.223-15	Energy Efficiency in Energy

52.203-6	Restrictions on Subcontractor 				Consuming Products (Dec 2007)

Sales to the Government (Sept 2006) 	52.223-16	IEEE1680 Standard for the

52.203-7	Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010)			Environmental Assessment of

52.203-11	Certification and Disclosure 				Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007)

Regarding Payments to Influence 	52.224-1, 2	Privacy Act (Apr 1984)		 

Certain Federal Transactions		52.215-8	Order of Precedence (Oct 1997)	

(Sept 2007) 				52.225-1	Buy American Act-Supplies 

52.204-3	Taxpayer Identification (Oct 1998) 			-Uniform Contract Data (Feb 2009)

52.207-5	Option to Purchase Equipment (Feb95) 52.225-13	Restrictions on Certain

52.209-5	Certification Regarding 					Foreign Purchases (June 2008) 

		Responsibility Matters	 (Apr 2010)	52.227-2	Notice and assistance regarding	

52.209-6	Protect LAJCC’S interest when				Patent and Copyright Infringement

		Subcontracting with debarred				(Dec 2007) 

Contractors suspended or		52.227-14	Rights in Data-General (Dec 2007) 

proposed for debarment (Aug 2013) 	52.228-7, 8	Insurance-Liability to Third

52.215-2	Audit and Records –					Persons (Mar 1996) & (May 1999)

		Negotiation/Alternate II (Oct2010)	52.232-9	Limitation on Withholding

52.216-7	Allowable Cost and Payment (Jun 2013) 			of Payments (Apr 1984) 

52.216-10	Incentive Fee	(Jun 2011)		52.232-18, 19	Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) 

52.217-8	Option to Extend Services		52.232-22	Limitation o f Funds (Apr 1984) 

		(30 Days) (Nov 1999) 			52.232-23	Assignment of Claims (Jan 1986) 

52.217-9	Option to Extend the Term of		52.232-25	Prompt Payment (Jul 2013) 

		the Contract (Mar 2000)		52.233-1	Disputes/Alternate I (July 2002) 

52.219-8	Utilization of Small Business		52.233-3	Protest after Award (Aug 1996) 

		Concerns (Jul 2013)			52.233-4	Applicable Law for Breach Of

52.219-9, 	Small Business (Jul 2013) 				Contract Claim (Oct 2004)

52.219-11 	Special 8(a) Contract Conditions	52.237-2	Protection of Government Building

(Feb 1990						Equipment, and Vegetation (Apr 1984)

52.219-12 	Special 8(a) Subcontract Conditions  	52.242-15	Stop Work Orders/Alternate I (Aug 1989)						(Feb 1990		

52.219-14	Limitations on Subcontracting 				Alternate I (Aug 1987)

(Dec 1996)				52.244-5	Competition In Subcontracting (Dec 1996)

52.222-1	Notice to the Government		52.244-6	Subcontracts for Commercial Items 

of Labor Disputes (Feb 1997)) 		52.242-15	Stop Work Orders/Alternate (Aug 1989	 

52.222-3	Convict Labor	(June 2003)				Alternate I (Aug 1987)

52.222-6	Davis-Bacon Act (July 2005)		52.244-5	Competition in Subcontracting (Dec 1996) 

52.222-10	Compliance with Copeland		52.244-6	Subcontracts for Commercial Items

52.222-6	Davis-Bacon Act (July 2005) 				(Jul 2013)

52.222-10	Compliance with Copeland		52.249-4  	Termination for Convenience of	

		Act Requirements (Feb 1988)		 		Government (Services) (Apr1984)




Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Flowdown Clauses for Job Corps Vendors 	

Page 3 of 3



52.222-11	Subcontracts (Labor standards 		52.249-6 	Termination Cost Reimbursement (May 04)		(Jul 2005)	52.249-14	Excusable Days (Apr 1984)

52.222-13	Compliance with Davis-Bacon &	) 	52.251-1	Government Supply Sources (Apr 2012)	

Related Act Regulations (Feb 1988)	52.251-2	Interagency Fleet Management System		

52.222-14 	Disputes Concerning Labor Standards  			Vehicles and Related Services (Jan 1991)

		(Feb 1988)				52.253-1	Computer Generated Forms (Jan 1991)	

52.222-15 	Certification of Eligibility (Feb 1988)		

52.222-16 	Approval of Wage Rates (Feb 1988)	

52.222-17	 Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers  		

(Jan 2013) 				

52.222-22	Previous Contracts and Compliance			

 Reports (Feb 1999)	 			

2.222-25	Affirmative Action Compliance	(Apr 1984) 			 

52.222-35	Equal Opportunity for Disabled Veterans (Sept 2010) 	

52.222-36	Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities	 (Oct 2010) 	

52.222-37	Employment Reports Veterans (Sept 2010) 

52.222-41	Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) 

52.222-42	Federal Hires (May 1989)					

52.222-43	FSLA and Service Contract Act	(Sep 2009) 

52.222-46	Evaluation of Compensation for

 		Professional Employees (Feb 1993) 

52.222-50	Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) 

52.222-51, 53 	Exemptions from Application of the Service Contract Act

		to Contracts for Maintenance Calibration or Repairs of

		Certain Equipment (Nov 2007) (Feb 2009) 

52.223-1, 2	Bio-based Product Certification (May 2012) 

52.223-3	Hazardous Material Identification

		And Material Safety Data/

		Alternate (Jan 1997) 

52.223-5	Pollution Prevention and

		Right-to Know Information (May 2011) 

52.223-6	Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001) 

52.223-10	Waste Reduction Program (May 2011) 






CLAUSES AND PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.  This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, (name of contractor) will make full text available. The full text of a clause or provision may be accessed electronically at the following Internet address:  .

FAR 52.203-12 (Oct 2010) LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (Clause is applicable if this Contract equals or exceeds $150,000.)

FAR 52.203-13 (Apr 2010) CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (Clause is applicable if the Contract exceeds $5,000,000 and the period of performance is 120 days or more.)

FAR 52.219-28 (JUL 2013) POST AWARD SMALL BUSINSESS REREPRESENTATION (Clause is applicable if the Contract exceeds $3,000 and will be performed in the U.S.)

FAR 52.222-21 (FEB 1999) PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (Clause is applicable if Equal Opportunity clause has been determined to apply to this Contract.)

FAR 52.222-26 (MAR 2007) (EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (Clause is applicable only if it is not exempt by the Secretary of Labor under Executive Order.)

FAR 52.222-54 EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012) (Clause may be applicable if the Contract exceeds $150,000, see FAR for details.)

FAR 52.223-11 OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (MAY 2001) (Clause is applicable if the Work was manufactured with or contains ozone-depleting substances.)

FAR 52.227-19 COMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE LICENSE (DEC 2007) (Clause is applicable if existing computer software is to be delivered under this Contract.)

FAR 52.245-1 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (APR 2012) (Clause is applicable if U.S. Government property is furnished to SELLER by SEAKR under the Contract.)

FAR 52.245-9 USE AND CHARGES (APR 2012) (Clause is applicable only if clause 52.245-1 is

applicable under the Contract.)

FAR 52.247-64 PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED U.S. FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS (FEB 2006) FAR 52.222-36 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010) (Clause is applicable if this Contract exceeds or is expected to exceed $15,000.) 

FAR 52.222-37 EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON VETERANS (SEP 2010) (Clause is applicable if this Contract expected value is $100,000 or more.) 

FAR 52.222-50 COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009) (Clause is applicable to all Contracts.) 

FAR 52.222-54 EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012) (Clause may be applicable if the Contract exceeds $150,000, see FAR for details.) 

FAR 52.223-11 OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (MAY 2001) (Clause is applicable if the Work was manufactured with or contains ozone-depleting substances.) 

FAR 52.225-1 BUY AMERICAN ACT -- SUPPLIES (FEB 2009) (Clause is applicable if the Work contains other than domestic components.) 

FAR 52.225-13 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008) 

FAR 52.227-19 COMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE LICENSE (DEC 2007) (Clause is applicable if existing computer software is to be delivered under this Contract.) 

FAR 52.244-6 SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2010) 

FAR 52.245-1 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (APR 2012) (Clause is applicable if U.S. Government property is furnished to SELLER by SEAKR under the Contract.) 

FAR 52.245-9 USE AND CHARGES (APR 2012) (Clause is applicable only if clause 52.245-1 is 

applicable under the Contract.) 

FAR 52.247-64 PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED U.S. FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS (FEB 2006)






Attachment 1

LOS ANGELES JOB CORPS CENTER

1020 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, California 90015

Telephone (213) 748-0135



Operated by the YWCA Greater Los Angeles

For the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration





November 18, 2013





Dear Subcontractor:



The Los Angeles Job Corps Center is subject t the following requirements:



Executive Order 11246 as amended which mandates that we incorporate provisions of the Equal

Opportunity Clause into the terms and conditions of each contract.



Certification that Subcontractors do not maintain segregated work facilities, and



Certification that Subcontractors do not discriminate against any employees or applicants because of physical or mental disabilities.



We have included the above referenced provisions for your review and request that you sign below and return this letter to us.



Sincerely,





_________________________________		________________________________

Victor Abadia						Joe Ann Courtney

Administrative Services Division Director	Equal Employment Opportunity Coordinator



Attachments:  EEOC 11246, Non-Segregated Facilities, Affirmative Action for Disabled Workers



____________________________________________________________________________________



The above referenced provisions are hereby accepted and compliance with them is hereby certified.



Name of Company:		__________________________________________________________



Mailing Address:		__________________________________________________________



Signature of Authorized Representative



Signature:			__________________________________________________________



Title:				__________________________________________________________






Attachment 2

LOS ANGELES JOB CORPS CENTER

                   1020 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, California 90015

     Telephone (213) 748-0135



       

        Operated by the YWCA Greater Los Angeles

  For the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration



                         

Executive Order 11246 – Equal Employment Opportunity

Subpart B - Contractors' Agreements

SEC. 202. Except in contracts exempted in accordance with Section 204 of this Order, all Government contracting agencies shall include in every Government contract hereafter entered into the following provisions:

		During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:

The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. 

The contractor will, in all solicitations or advancements for employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin. 

The contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice, to be provided by the agency contracting officer, advising the labor union or workers' representative of the contractor's commitments under Section 202 of Executive Order No. 11246 of September 24, 1965, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. 

The contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Order No. 11246 of Sept. 24, 1965, and of the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor. 

The contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order No. 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to his books, records, and accounts by the contracting agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations, and orders. 





Executive Order 11246 – Equal Employment Opportunity

Subpart B - Contractors' Agreements

Page 2



In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any of such rules, regulations, or orders, this contract may be cancelled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order No. 11246 of Sept. 24, 1965, and such other sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in Executive Order No. 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulation, or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law.



The contractor will include the provisions of paragraphs (1) through (7) in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to Section 204 of Executive Order No. 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as may be directed by the Secretary of Labor as a means of enforcing such provisions including sanctions for noncompliance: Provided, however, that in the event the contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction, the contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States." [Sec. 202 amended by EO 11375 of Oct. 13, 1967, 32 FR 14303, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684, EO 12086 of Oct. 5, 1978, 43 FR 46501, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230]












Attachment 3

LOS ANGELES JOB CORPS CENTER

                      1020 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, California 90015

     Telephone (213) 748-0135



        Operated by the YWCA Greater Los Angeles

  For the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration



52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)

(a) “Segregated facilities,” as used in this clause, means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms and wash rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees, that are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin because of written or oral policies or employee custom. The term does not include separate or single-user rest rooms or necessary dressing or sleeping areas provided to assure privacy between the sexes. 

(b) The Contractor agrees that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this clause is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in this contract. 

(c) The Contractor shall include this clause in every subcontract and purchase order that is subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this contract. 

(End of clause)


Attachment 4





LOS ANGELES JOB CORPS CENTER

                    1020 South Olive Street, Los Angeles, California 90015

   Telephone (213) 748-0135



             

 Operated by the YWCA Greater Los Angeles

        For the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration







    (52.222-36) Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998)

(a) General. 

(1) Regarding any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified, the Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant because of physical or mental disability. The Contractor agrees to take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment, and otherwise treat qualified individuals with disabilities without discrimination based upon their physical or mental disability in all employment practices such as— 

(i) Recruitment, advertising, and job application procedures; 

(ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff, and rehiring; 

(iii) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation; 

(iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists; 

(v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave; 

(vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the Contractor; 

(vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeships, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training; 

(viii) Activities sponsored by the Contractor, including social or recreational programs; and 

(ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. 

(2) The Contractor agrees to comply with the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) issued under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 () (the Act), as amended. 

(b) Postings. 

(52.222-36) Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998)

Page 2

(1) The Contractor agrees to post employment notices stating— 

(i) The Contractor’s obligation under the law to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities; and 

(ii) The rights of applicants and employees. 

(2) These notices shall be posted in conspicuous places that are available to employees and applicants for employment. The Contractor shall ensure that applicants and employees with disabilities are informed of the contents of the notice (e.g., the Contractor may have the notice read to a visually disabled individual, or may lower the posted notice so that it might be read by a person in a wheelchair). The notices shall be in a form prescribed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract Compliance of the U.S. Department of Labor (Deputy Assistant Secretary) and shall be provided by or through the Contracting Officer. 

(3) The Contractor shall notify each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract understanding, that the Contractor is bound by the terms of Section 503 of the Act and is committed to take affirmative action to employ, and advance in employment, qualified individuals with physical or mental disabilities. 

 (c) Noncompliance. If the Contractor does not comply with the requirements of this clause, appropriate actions may be taken under the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to the Act. 

(d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order in excess of $10,000 unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary. The Contractor shall act as specified by the Deputy Assistant Secretary to enforce the terms, including action for noncompliance. 

(End of clause)



PAGE 1

							PAGE 4

			             				PAGE 2

		        				

PAGE 4

PAGE 5









EXHIBIT F- Cost Price Proposal



COPIER LEASE AND PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE

LAJCC-2014-RFP-01





Proposer shall submit a fixed price figure based on EXHIBIT A: Performance Specification.  

Proposer shall submit a monthly rate to accommodate the Lease and Preventive Maintenance services requested identified in EX HIBIT A: Scope of Services. 

BASE TERM:  				

Base Period Monthly Cost			$_________ Jan 2014   –     Oct 31, 2014



2.  Option Year One Monthly Cost 	$_________ Nov 1st, 2014 – Oct 31, 2015



3. Option Year Two Monthly Cost		$_________ Nov 1st, 2015 – Oct 31, 2016




EXHIBIT G  - PROTEST-

EXHIBIT G – LAJCC-2014 RFP-01– PROTESTS AND APPEALS



I.  OVERVIEW



It is the policy of the YWCA/Los Angeles Job corps Center to afford due process to subcontractors or vendors that have participated in a competitive procurement process and believe they have not been accorded fair treatment or that the selection process was materially flawed.



This process extends to subcontractors or vendors whose bids have been rejected as “non-responsive” to a solicitation or which have been declared “non-responsible” and ineligible for award.  At the same time, it is not the YWCA/Los Angeles Job Corps Center’s intent to unnecessarily delay the award of contracts resulting from legitimate processes or provide a forum for bidders interested solely in denying business to their competitors.



Accordingly, this section establishes the rules and procedures for subcontractors or vendors to protest the recommended awards resulting from requests for quotes, invitations for bids or request for proposals.



II. PROCESS



A.	Filing of Protest



A subcontractor or vendor that has submitted a quote, a bid or proposal and wishes to lodge a protest against the award to another subcontractor or vendor (hereafter in this section, “Protestor”); the subcontractor or vendor must comply with the following:

	

1.	Submit such protest in writing to the Administrative Services Director or designee.



2.	The protest must be submitted within two (2) business days of notification of the proposed award; and shall include the following information:

	

	(a)	Name, address, and fax and telephone numbers of the protester.

	(b)	Solicitation or contract number.

	(c)	Copies of relevant documents.

	

3. 	The protest letter must state the basis for the protest and the remedy sought.



B.	Disposition of Protest



	Upon receipt of a protest, the Administrative Services Director or designee will:



	1.	Suspend award pending disposition of the protest;



2.	Notify the supplier recommended for award (hereafter in this section, “Awardee”) about the protest; and

3.	Invite the Awardee to submit, within two (2) business days of notice of the bid protest, any information in support of the award.



If the Administrative Services Director or designee upholds the protest, this decision and its basis will be conveyed in writing to the Protestor, the Awardee, and any other subcontractor or vendor that submitted a quote, bid or proposal.  The communication will also declare the Administrative Services Director or designee intention to:  (a) award to another supplier, or (b) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit quotes, bids or proposals, or (c) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit for at least (1) month. 



If the Administrative Services Director or designee ager denies the protest, this decision and its basis will be conveyed in writing to the Protestor and all other suppliers that submitted a quote, bid or request for proposal.  In denying the protest, the Administrative Services Director or designee may declare the Purchasing Unit’s intention to: (a) award to the Awardee, or (b) cancel the solicitation and re-solicit quotes, bids  or request for proposals, or (c) cancel the solicitation and not re-solicit for at least (1) month.



Whether upholding or denying the protest, if the Administrative Services Director or designee elects to cancel the solicitation and not re-solicit for at least one (1) month, the decision on the protest and action will be deemed final and there will be no further avenue of appeal for any party.



C.	Appeal



Except where the Administrative Services Director or designee’s decision is deemed final as stipulated above, any subcontractor or vendor notified of the Administrative Services Director or designee decision on a protest must, within two (2) business days of notice, appeal the decision in writing to the LAJCC Contracting Officer (CO) and include in the appeal to the CO the same information as required for the original protest.  The disposition of the appeal will be handled in the same manner as the protest.



The CO decision on the appeal will be conveyed to all parties in writing.  .



The last appeal will be the YWCA/Los Angeles Job Corps Chief Executive Officer, whose decision in the matter will be final.  Such decision will be communicated to all parties in writing within a reasonable time period after the decision is made.



D.	Recordkeeping



File records containing documentation on subcontractors or vendors protests and appeals, including but not limited to correspondence and written decisions, shall be maintained by the Office of the Administrative Services Director or designee.



Files should be kept in a chronological, complete and orderly manner as these documents constitute the administrative record for the process afforded to a specific subcontractor or vendor in a particular case and could be exposed in potential litigation with a subcontractor or vendor or subject to a California Public Records Act request.



F.	Legal Authority and Citations



	Public Contract Code sections 10290, 20650-20660, 22030-22045

	Government Code section 53060: Government Code sections 6250-6270 

	Executive Order 12979, Agency Procurement Protests

 		



This section should establish the proposer's understanding of LAJCC's objectives and requirements; demonstrate the proposer's ability to satisfy them; and clearly outline the plan for accomplishing the specified work. Demonstrate the degree to which the proposer possesses the experience that is necessary to successfully complete this effort.  Factors to be considered are:

This section should establish the proposer's understanding of LAJCC's objectives and requirements; demonstrate the proposer's ability to satisfy them; and clearly outline the plan for accomplishing the specified work. Demonstrate the degree to which the proposer possesses the experience that is necessary to successfully complete this effort.  Factors to be considered are:



TECHNICAL



Criteria



Technical Approach - The degree to which the proposer’s technical approach will effective support, maintain and support this effort.  Factors to be considered are:



Describe your Technical expertise in providing customer support, trouble call follow-up and customer satisfaction.



Describe the largest educational; institutional or government population for which you have provided copier services.





CRITERIA

POINTS

Criteria 1	Technical 

0 - 30

Criteria 2	Management	

0 - 15 

Criteria 3	Past Performance

0 - 15 

Criteria 4	Cost or Price	

0 - 30 

Criteria 5   Small Business Yes or No?       SB/WOSB/HUB/SDB/VOSB/SDVOSB	

           0  or 10  

Total Possible Points 

               100



ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

ATTACHMENT 5

REPONSIBLE CONTRACTOR

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

In accordance with the SOP #2005 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9, completion of this form will assist Los Angeles Job Corps determine the prospective contractors’ responsibility as it pertains to the following: (1)   Adequate financial resources to perform the contract;   (2) Ability to delivery or perform as required. (3)  Satisfactory performance record;   (4) Experience necessary to manage the contract.   (5)High business ethics.



No purchase or award shall be made unless there is an affirmative determination of responsibility

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 1 -GENERAL INFORMATION

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

		2. TYPE OF ORGANIZATION (Check one)

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME

1A. NAME



A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP

A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP

A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP

A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP

A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP

A. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP





F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

F. LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS



B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP

B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP

B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP

B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP

B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP

B. GENERAL PARTNERSHIP





G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

G. JOINT VENTURE

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS

1B. STREET ADDRESS



C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

C. LIMITED PARTNERSHIP





H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

H. TRUST

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1D. STATE

1D. STATE

1D. STATE

1E. ZIP CODE

1E. ZIP CODE

1E. ZIP CODE



D. CORPORATION

D. CORPORATION

D. CORPORATION

D. CORPORATION

D. CORPORATION

D. CORPORATION





I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1C. CITY

1D. STATE

1D. STATE

1D. STATE

1E. ZIP CODE

1E. ZIP CODE

1E. ZIP CODE



E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION

E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION

E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION

E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION

E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION

E. SUBCHAPTER S CORPORATION





I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

I. OTHER (Specify below)

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

3. TAXPAYER ID NUMBER

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

4. DATE ORGANIZATION ESTABLISHED

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

5. STATE OF INCORPORATION

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

6. TRADE STYLE NAME (Provide a copy of filing)

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

7. KIND OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

8. FORMER BUSINESS NAME

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

10. INVENTORY VALUATION METHOD

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS

		9. KIND OF BUSINESS





A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	

A.  LIFO	



C. AVERAGE COST

C. AVERAGE COST

C. AVERAGE COST

C. AVERAGE COST



A. MANUFACTURER

A. MANUFACTURER

A. MANUFACTURER

A. MANUFACTURER



D. RETAILER

D. RETAILER

D. RETAILER

D. RETAILER





B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO



D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)



B. CONTRACTOR

B. CONTRACTOR

B. CONTRACTOR

B. CONTRACTOR



OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)





B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO



D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)



C. WHOLESALER

C. WHOLESALER

C. WHOLESALER

C. WHOLESALER



OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)

OTHER (Specify)





B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO

B. FIFO



D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

D. OTHER (Specify)

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

11. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION PARTNERS PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS0-OTHERS

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

TITLE

(If partner, state G ()General) or Limited in column)

% BUSINESS

OWNED

% BUSINESS

OWNED

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

NAME

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

ACTUAL TITLE

G OR L

G OR L

G OR L

G OR L

% BUSINESS

OWNED

% BUSINESS

OWNED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

















































































































































12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

12. PARENT COMPANY (if applicable)

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

13. IF “YES” TO ANY QUESTION BELOW PROVIDE DETIALED INFORMTION IN SECTION V111, REMARKS

`YES

NO

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?

A. HAVE YOU, OR ANY OF YOUR AFFILIATES EVER FILED FOR BAKRUPTCY?





A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

A. NAME

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?

B. DO YOU HAVE ANY JUDGMENTS LIENS OR PENDING SUITES?





B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

C. STATE

C. STATE

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?

C. DO YOU HAVE ANY CONTINGENT LIABILITIES?





B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

B. CITY

C. STATE

C. STATE

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.

D. HAVE YOU OR ANY OR YOUR AFFILIATES DISC. BUSINESS OPER. W/OUTSTANDING DEBTS.





SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

SECTION 11 – FINANCIAL AID AND INDEBTNESS

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

14A. ARE YOU DELIQUENT ON ANY FEDERAL DEBT (OMB CIRCULAR A-129)           If “Yes”, provide detailed information, Section VII, Remarks)

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

 YES    NO

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO























CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

BALANCE

BALANCE

BALANCE

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

AGENCY

CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

BALANCE

BALANCE

BALANCE

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO

14B DO YOU OWE THE             GOVERNMENT FOR ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER claims                   YES  NO























CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

CLAIM AMOUNT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

PAYMENT

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

MATURITY

BALANCE

BALANCE

BALANCE

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15A. AGENCY INVOLVED WITH DELINQUENCY?

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

15B. AMOUNT OF DELIQUENCY ($)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

IF “YES”, COMPLETE THE ITEMS BELOW

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

TYPE OF FINANCING

TYPE OF FINANCING

TYPE OF FINANCING

TYPE OF FINANCING

TYPE OF FINANCING

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

AUTHORIZED ($)

IN USE ($)

IN USE ($)

IN USE ($)

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

GOVERNMENT AGENCY INVOLVED

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

















































16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

















































16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

















































16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

















































16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)

16. ARE YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVING GOVERNMENT FINANCING?

 YES

 NO (Go to Section III)



















































SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



SECTION III – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Prepared Financial Statements with notes may be provided in lieu of completing Section III



When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

When financial statements are prepared or certified by independent accountants and transcribed to

this form, please furnish the name and address of accountant of accounting firm.

18. ARE YOU THE INCOMBENT CONTRACTOR FOR THIS SOLICITATION?

   YES				NO

18. ARE YOU THE INCOMBENT CONTRACTOR FOR THIS SOLICITATION?

   YES				NO

18. ARE YOU THE INCOMBENT CONTRACTOR FOR THIS SOLICITATION?

   YES				NO

18. ARE YOU THE INCOMBENT CONTRACTOR FOR THIS SOLICITATION?

   YES				NO

18. ARE YOU THE INCOMBENT CONTRACTOR FOR THIS SOLICITATION?

   YES				NO

19A.  NAME

19A.  NAME

19A.  NAME

19A.  NAME

19A.  NAME

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

20.  IF TRANSCRIBED STATEMENTS DIFFER FROM INDEPENDENT 

ACCOUNTANTS, PLEASE DESCRIBE ADJUSTMENT IN SECTION VII, 

REMARKS ALL OF THE LISTED FIGURES ARE:

19B.  STREET ADDRESS

19B.  STREET ADDRESS

19B.  STREET ADDRESS

19B.  STREET ADDRESS

19B.  STREET ADDRESS



ACTUAL

ACTUAL



U.S. DOLLARS

U.S. DOLLARS

U.S. DOLLARS

19C.  CITY

19D.  STATE

19D.  STATE

19E.  ZIP CODE

19E.  ZIP CODE



IN THOUSANDS

IN THOUSANDS



FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

19C.  CITY

19D.  STATE

19D.  STATE

19E.  ZIP CODE

19E.  ZIP CODE



IN MILLIONS

IN MILLIONS



FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

FOREIGN CURRENCY (Specify)

21.  BALANCE SHEET AS OF (Month, Day, Year)

21.  BALANCE SHEET AS OF (Month, Day, Year)

21.  BALANCE SHEET AS OF (Month, Day, Year)

21.  BALANCE SHEET AS OF (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

  22.  FISCAL YEAR ENDS (Month, Day, Year)

23.  PREPARED STMTS

        

23.  PREPARED STMTS

        

24. ASSETS

24. ASSETS

24. ASSETS

24. ASSETS

24. ASSETS

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

25. LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

Current Assets

Current Assets

Current Assets

Current Assets

Current Assets

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Current Liabilities

Cash

Cash







Accounts payable

Accounts payable

Accounts payable

Accounts payable

Accounts payable

Accounts payable



Short Term cash investments

Short Term cash investments







Notes payable (current)

Notes payable (current)

Notes payable (current)

Notes payable (current)

Notes payable (current)

Notes payable (current)



Accounts receivable, less allowance for

Doubtful accounts of $

Accounts receivable, less allowance for

Doubtful accounts of $







Current portion of long term debt

Current portion of long term debt

Current portion of long term debt

Current portion of long term debt

Current portion of long term debt

Current portion of long term debt



Accounts receivable, less allowance for

Doubtful accounts of $

Accounts receivable, less allowance for

Doubtful accounts of $







Accrued expenses

Accrued expenses

Accrued expenses

Accrued expenses

Accrued expenses

Accrued expenses



Inventories

Inventories







Accrued taxes on income/excess profits

Accrued taxes on income/excess profits

Accrued taxes on income/excess profits

Accrued taxes on income/excess profits

Accrued taxes on income/excess profits

Accrued taxes on income/excess profits



Other current assets (itemize below)

Other current assets (itemize below)







Other current liabilities (itemize)

Other current liabilities (itemize)

Other current liabilities (itemize)

Other current liabilities (itemize)

Other current liabilities (itemize)

Other current liabilities (itemize)



















































		Total Current Assets

		Total Current Assets







		Total Current Liabilities

		Total Current Liabilities

		Total Current Liabilities

		Total Current Liabilities

		Total Current Liabilities

		Total Current Liabilities



Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, Plant and Equipment

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Other Liabilities

Land

Land







Mortgages

Mortgages

Mortgages

Mortgages

Mortgages

Mortgages



Buildings and equipment

Buildings and equipment







Bonds

Bonds

Bonds

Bonds

Bonds

Bonds



Leasehold improvements

Leasehold improvements







Deferred Income taxes

Deferred Income taxes

Deferred Income taxes

Deferred Income taxes

Deferred Income taxes

Deferred Income taxes



Less accumulated depreciation and

Amortization

Less accumulated depreciation and

Amortization







Other long term debt

Other long term debt

Other long term debt

Other long term debt

Other long term debt

Other long term debt



Less accumulated depreciation and

Amortization

Less accumulated depreciation and

Amortization







		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities



	           Total Property, Plant and Equipment

	           Total Property, Plant and Equipment







		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities

		   Total Other Liabilities



Other  Assets

Other  Assets

Other  Assets

Other  Assets

Other  Assets

		               Total Liabilities

		               Total Liabilities

		               Total Liabilities

		               Total Liabilities

		               Total Liabilities

		               Total Liabilities



Investments in and advance to affiliated 

company

Investments in and advance to affiliated 

company







Minority Interest in Subsidiary

Minority Interest in Subsidiary

Minority Interest in Subsidiary

Minority Interest in Subsidiary

Minority Interest in Subsidiary

Minority Interest in Subsidiary



Goodwill, less amortization

Goodwill, less amortization







Net Worth

Net Worth

Net Worth

Net Worth

Net Worth

Net Worth



Due from officer, employee

Due from officer, employee







Preferred stock

Preferred stock

Preferred stock

Preferred stock

Preferred stock

Preferred stock



Other (itemize)

Other (itemize)







Common stock

Common stock

Common stock

Common stock

Common stock

Common stock













Additional paid-in capital

Additional paid-in capital

Additional paid-in capital

Additional paid-in capital

Additional paid-in capital

Additional paid-in capital













Retained earnings/owner’s equity

Retained earnings/owner’s equity

Retained earnings/owner’s equity

Retained earnings/owner’s equity

Retained earnings/owner’s equity

Retained earnings/owner’s equity













Less, Treasury stock

Less, Treasury stock

Less, Treasury stock

Less, Treasury stock

Less, Treasury stock

Less, Treasury stock



		    Total Other Assets

		    Total Other Assets







		              Total Net Worth

		              Total Net Worth

		              Total Net Worth

		              Total Net Worth

		              Total Net Worth

		              Total Net Worth



 TOTAL ASSETS

 TOTAL ASSETS







TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH



SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

SECTION IV - INCOME STATEMENT

26.	FROM (Month, Day, Year)

26.	FROM (Month, Day, Year)

26.	FROM (Month, Day, Year)

26.	FROM (Month, Day, Year)

26.	FROM (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

27.	TO (Month, Day, Year)

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

28. INCOME

Net Sales

Net Sales







Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries



Cost and Expenses

Cost and Expenses







Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries

Minority Interest in Earnings of 

Subsidiaries



   Cost of Goods Sold

   Cost of Goods Sold







		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses



   Depreciation and Amortization

   Depreciation and Amortization







		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses

		Total Costs and Expenses



Selling, General, and Admin. Expenses

Selling, General, and Admin. Expenses







Earnings Before Taxes

Earnings Before Taxes

Earnings Before Taxes

Earnings Before Taxes

Earnings Before Taxes

Earnings Before Taxes



Interest Expense

Interest Expense







Taxes on Income

Taxes on Income

Taxes on Income

Taxes on Income

Taxes on Income

Taxes on Income



Other Expenses (Itemize)

Other Expenses (Itemize)







Income Before Extraordinary Items

Income Before Extraordinary Items

Income Before Extraordinary Items

Income Before Extraordinary Items

Income Before Extraordinary Items

Income Before Extraordinary Items













Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes

Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes

Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes

Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes

Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes

Extraordinary Gains (Losses) Net of Taxes













		        NET INCOME (LOSS)

		        NET INCOME (LOSS)

		        NET INCOME (LOSS)

		        NET INCOME (LOSS)

		        NET INCOME (LOSS)

		        NET INCOME (LOSS)






SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)




SECTION V – BANKING AND FINANCE COMPANY INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet using this format for any additional banks.)



         ITEM

         ITEM

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 1

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

		BANK 2

29.  Name of Bank

29.  Name of Bank















































30.  Contact Person

30.  Contact Person















































31.  Phone Number

31.  Phone Number

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

32.  Fax Number

32.  Fax Number

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

33.  Address

33.  Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

33.  Address

33.  Address

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

 STATE

 STATE

 STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE













  STATE

  STATE

  STATE

  STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

34.  Amount Owing ($)

34.  Amount Owing ($)















































35.  Term Loans

35.  Term Loans



Yes

Yes





No

No

No

No

No

No





Yes

Yes

Yes





No

No

No

No

No

36.  Line of Credit

36.  Line of Credit



Yes

Yes





No

No

No

No

No

No





Yes

Yes

Yes





No

No

No

No

No

37.  Maximum Amount

       Authorized ($)

37.  Maximum Amount

       Authorized ($)















































38.  Amount

       Outstanding ($)

38.  Amount

       Outstanding ($)















































39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

39.  Loans Secured by Company’s Assets – Real and Personal Property

A.

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

A.

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

A.

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

B.

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

B.

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

B.

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

C.

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

C.

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

C.

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

D.

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

SECURED PARTY NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

CONTACT NAME

D.

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

D.

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

SECURING ASSETS

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MATURITY DATE

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

MONTHLY PAYMENT ($)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

40.  ARE ANY OF THE ASETS SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 	PLEDGED OR MORTGED, EXCEPT AS STATED ABOVE?







NO		YES (Explain In Section VII, Remarks)

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41A.  IF CONTRACTOR IS A PARTNERSHIP OR SOLE

 PROPRIETORSHIP, ARE THE INDIVIDUAL LIABILITIES

OF THE PROPRIETOR(S) FOR FEDERAL AND STATE

INCOME AND OR EXCESS PROFIT TAXES INCLUDED ON

THE BALANCE SHEET?

NO		YES			

41B.   TOTAL

	LIABILITY (S)

41B.   TOTAL

	LIABILITY (S)

41B.   TOTAL

	LIABILITY (S)

41B.   TOTAL

	LIABILITY (S)

42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?



42.  ARE YOU NOW IN OR PENDING DEFAULT ON ANY OBLIGATIONS. I.E., BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SUPPLIERS, OTHER?





SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



SECTION VI – PRINCIPAL MERCHANDISE OR RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIER INFORMATION

(Please attach a separate sheet (s) using this format for any additional suppliers.)



43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

43.  PAST DUE ACCOUNTS PAYABLE ($)

         ITEM

		44.  SUPPLIER 1

		44.  SUPPLIER 1

		44.  SUPPLIER 1

		44.  SUPPLIER 1

		44.  SUPPLIER 1

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

		45. SUPPLIER 2

A.  Name of Supplier

























Contact Person

























C. Telephone

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

D.  Fax 

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

E.  Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

E.  Address

CITY

CITY

 STATE

ZIP CODE       

ZIP CODE       







  STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

 Amount Now 

Owing ($)

























High Credit ($)

























		 ITEM

		46.  SUPPLIER 3

		46.  SUPPLIER 3

		46.  SUPPLIER 3

		46.  SUPPLIER 3

		46.  SUPPLIER 3

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

		47. SUPPLIER 4

A.  Name of Supplier

























Contact Person

























C. Telephone

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

D.  Fax 

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

E.  Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

E.  Address

CITY

CITY

 STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE







  STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

F.  Amount Now 

Owing ($)

























G.  High Credit ($)

























SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

SECTION VII – CONSTRUCTION/SERVICE CONTRACTS INFORMATION (Public Buildings Service Contracts Only)

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

CONTRACT INFORCE

	 ITEM

		48.  CONTRACT 1

		48.  CONTRACT 1

		48.  CONTRACT 1

		48.  CONTRACT 1

		48.  CONTRACT 1

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

		49.CONTRACT 2

A.  Location

























B.  Owner’s Name

























C. Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

C. Address

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

D.  Type of Work 

























E.  Contract Amt. ($)

























F.  %Completed











  

  

  

  

  

  

  

G.  Est. Comp. Date

























	ITEM

				50.  CONTRACT 3

				50.  CONTRACT 3

				50.  CONTRACT 3

				50.  CONTRACT 3

				50.  CONTRACT 3

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

			51. CONTRACT 4

A.  Location

























B.  Owner’s Name

























C. Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

.

.

.

.

.

.

.



CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

D.  Type of Work 

























E.  Contract Amt. ($)

























F.  %Completed











  

  

  

  

  

  

  

G.  Est. Comp. Date




























	ITEM

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		52.  CONTRACT 5

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

		53.CONTRACT 6

A.  Location





























B.  Owner’s Name





























C. Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

C. Address

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

D.  Type of Work 





























E.  Contract Amt. ($)





























F.  %Completed













  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

G.  Est. Comp. Date





























	ITEM

				54.  CONTRACT 7

				54.  CONTRACT 7

				54.  CONTRACT 7

				54.  CONTRACT 7

				54.  CONTRACT 7

				54.  CONTRACT 7

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

			55.CONTRACT 8

A.  Location





























B.  Owner’s Name





























C. Address













.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

C. Address

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

D.  Type of Work 





























E.  Contract Amt. ($)





























F.  %Completed













  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

G.  Est. Comp. Date





























LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

LARGEST JOBS YOU HAVE COMPLETED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS

	ITEM

			56. JOB 1

			56. JOB 1

			56. JOB 1

			56. JOB 1

			56. JOB 1

			56. JOB 1

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

			57.  JOB 2

 Location





























 Contact’s Name





























Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

Address

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

Address

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

EXT.

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

Type of Work





























Contract Amt. ($)





























Amount Sublet ($)





























	ITEM

			58. JOB 3

			58. JOB 3

			58. JOB 3

			58. JOB 3

			58. JOB 3

			58. JOB 3

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

			59.  JOB 4

 Location





























 Contact’s Name





























Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS









STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE









STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

Telephone

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

Type of Work





























Contract Amt. ($)





























Amount Sublet ($)





























	ITEM

			60. JOB 5

			60. JOB 5

			60. JOB 5

			60. JOB 5

			60. JOB 5

			60. JOB 5

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

			61.  JOB 6

 Location





























 Contact’s Name





























Address

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS









STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE









STATE

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

Telephone

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

Type of Work





























Contract Amt. ($)





























Amount Sublet ($)































	ITEM

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			62.  SURETY COMPANY 1

			63.  SURETY COMPANY 2

			63.  SURETY COMPANY 2

			63.  SURETY COMPANY 2

			63.  SURETY COMPANY 2

			63.  SURETY COMPANY 2

A.  Company Name























B.  Contact’s Name























 Telephone

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

EXT.

 Fax

AREA CODE		











AREA CODE

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

NUMBER

ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

STREET ADDRESS

ADDRESS

CITY

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

CITY

CITY

STATE

ZIP CODE

ZIP CODE

64. PRESENT AMOUNT OF  BONDING

	COVERAGE ($)

64. PRESENT AMOUNT OF  BONDING

	COVERAGE ($)

64. PRESENT AMOUNT OF  BONDING

	COVERAGE ($)

65. HAS YOUR APPLICATION FOR 

SURETY BOND EVER BEEN DECLINED?

(If yes, please provide detailed information

In Remarks)

  YES		 NO

65. HAS YOUR APPLICATION FOR 

SURETY BOND EVER BEEN DECLINED?

(If yes, please provide detailed information

In Remarks)

  YES		 NO

65. HAS YOUR APPLICATION FOR 

SURETY BOND EVER BEEN DECLINED?

(If yes, please provide detailed information

In Remarks)

  YES		 NO

65. HAS YOUR APPLICATION FOR 

SURETY BOND EVER BEEN DECLINED?

(If yes, please provide detailed information

In Remarks)

  YES		 NO

66.  DURING THE PAST 2 YEARS, HAVE YOU BEEN CHARGED 

WITH A FAILURE TO MET THE CLAIMS OF YOUR SUBCONTRACTORS (OR SUPPLIERS?  (If yes, please provide detailed information 

in Remarks

66.  DURING THE PAST 2 YEARS, HAVE YOU BEEN CHARGED 

WITH A FAILURE TO MET THE CLAIMS OF YOUR SUBCONTRACTORS (OR SUPPLIERS?  (If yes, please provide detailed information 

in Remarks

66.  DURING THE PAST 2 YEARS, HAVE YOU BEEN CHARGED 

WITH A FAILURE TO MET THE CLAIMS OF YOUR SUBCONTRACTORS (OR SUPPLIERS?  (If yes, please provide detailed information 

in Remarks

66.  DURING THE PAST 2 YEARS, HAVE YOU BEEN CHARGED 

WITH A FAILURE TO MET THE CLAIMS OF YOUR SUBCONTRACTORS (OR SUPPLIERS?  (If yes, please provide detailed information 

in Remarks

66.  DURING THE PAST 2 YEARS, HAVE YOU BEEN CHARGED 

WITH A FAILURE TO MET THE CLAIMS OF YOUR SUBCONTRACTORS (OR SUPPLIERS?  (If yes, please provide detailed information 

in Remarks

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

						SECTION VIII-REMARKS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

LIST COMPANIES FROM WHO YOU OBTAIN SURETY BONDS

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE

REMARKS (Cite those sections of the form relating to your remarks.  If additional space is required, attach additional sheet(s).)













PAGE 6







						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

						CERTIFICATION

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

For the purpose of establishing financial responsibility with Los Angeles Job Corps Center (LAJCC), we furnish the above as true and correct statement of 

our financial condition and further certify that all other statements are true and correct.  There has been no material change in the applicant’s financial 

condition since the date of the above statement.  We agree to notify you immediately in writing of any materially unfavorable change in our financial 

condition.  In the absence of such notice or of a new and full financial statement, this is to be considered as a continuing statement.

NAME OF BUSINESS

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

BY (Signature of Authorized Office)

NAME OF BUSINESS

NAME OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type of print)

DATE

NAME OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL (Type or print)

DATE