Deviation 2012-O0004

Class Deviation— Prohibition Against Contracting With Corporations That Have an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under Federal Law



252.209-7999, Representation by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law.



     REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER ANY FEDERAL LAW (DEVIATION 2012-O0004) (JAN 2012)



	(a)  In accordance with sections 8124 and 8125 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012,(Pub. L. 112-74) none of the funds made available by that Act may be used to enter into a contract with any corporation that—



(1)  Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government. 



(2)  Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.



	(b)  The Offeror represents that—



		(1)  It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability,



		(2)  It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months. 

							   (End of provision)









NAME OF COMPANY: _________________________________________________________







DATE: ________________________________________________







SIGNATURE/TITLE: _________________________________________________________COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION

TRANSCRIPTION INTERFACE SOFTWARE SOLUTION

(i)  The AFTC Installation Contracting Division, Eglin AFB, Florida intends to solicit, negotiate and award a firm-fixed price contract for Transcription Interface Software Solution in accordance with the Statement of Objective.  This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; offers are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. 

(ii)  The solicitation is issued as a request for proposal (RFP).  Submit written proposals (oral proposals will not be accepted) on RFP reference number F1T4AS2230A002. 

(iii)  The solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular FAC 2005-59. 

(iv) This is a full and open competition.  The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 511210 with a small business standard size of $25 million annually.  Please identify your business size in your response based upon this standard.  

(v)   CLIN 0001- Transcription Interface Software Solution

 (vi)  The solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-59 effective as of 10 May 2012.  This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): 

The following provisions and clauses are incorporated by reference:	

52.203, Gratuities (Apr 1984)

52.204-99, System for Award Management Registration (DEVIATION)

52.212-3, Offerors Representations and Certifications – Commercial Items, Alternate I (Apr 2011)  (Effective January 1, 2005, in accordance with FAC 2001-26, offerors are required to provide representations and certifications electronically via the BPN website );

52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions – Commercial Items (Feb 2012)

52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders - Commercial Items, (May 2012) incorporating the following:

52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011)

52.222-3, Convict Labor (Jun 2003)

52.222-19 Child Labor - Cooperation With Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012)

52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)

52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)

52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled, Veterans, Veterans fo the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2010)

52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers With Disabilities (Oct 2010)

52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2010)

52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)

52.233-2, Service of Protest (Sep 2006)

52.219-28, Post-Award Small Business Program Representation (Apr 2012)

252.209-7999, Representation by Corporations Regarding and Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under and Federal Law (Jan 2012) Contractors must fill out attached document and submit with proposal.

252.212-7001, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Applicable to Defense Acquisitions of Commercial Items (May 2012) , incorporating the following:

52.203-3, Gratuities (Apr 1984) (10 U.S.C. 2207)

252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (Mar 	2008)(10 U.S.C. 2227)

252-232.7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Report (Mar 2008)

5352.223-9001, Health and Safety on Government Installations (Jun 1997)



 (vii)   The following clauses and provisions apply to this solicitation and are included in full text:
    

52.212-1- INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008)

THIS SECTION IS FOR SOLICITATION PURPOSES ONLY.  THIS SECTION WILL BE PHYSICALLY REMOVED FROM ANY RESULTANT AWARD, BUT WILL BE DEEMED INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.

ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1, PROPOSAL PREPARATION  INSTRUCTIONS

SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

Instructions: This section of the instructions to offerors prescribes the format of the proposal and describes the approach for the development and presentation of proposal data. The instructions are designed to ensure the submission of necessary information to provide for the understanding and comprehensive evaluation of the proposal. Submit a clear and complete proposal as detailed in this section and 52.212-2, Evaluation—Commercial Items. Include only information that is relevant to this source selection. The offerors shall assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of their facilities and experience, and will base its evaluation on the information presented in the offeror's proposal. Pages in excess of the maximum will be removed from the proposal and will not be evaluated.

Proposal Format: The proposal shall be 8 1/2" x 11" paper except for foldouts used for charts, tables, or diagrams, which may not exceed 11" x 17". A page is defined as one face of a sheet of paper containing information and excludes such things as blank pages, title pages, tables of contents, tabs, dividers, and indices. All pages shall have a minimum margin of 1" on the sides and 1/2" on top and bottom, (excluding document numbers, classification markings, and page numbers). All material must be contained within the page limits identified. Type shall be 12-point font. Text lines shall be spaced a minimum of 1 space. Elaborate formats, bindings or color presentations are not desired or required.

Proposal Structure: The composition of each proposal shall be such that extensive searching throughout the document is not required to locate and evaluate any area. Total page count will be determined by the number of printed pages (printing on both sides of the paper will be counted as two pages). The proposal shall be divided, tabbed, and indexed. The proposal shall contain sufficient information to enable evaluators to make complete analyses of the proposals. Include all available information pertaining specifically to the solicitation requirements 52.212-2, Evaluation—Commercial Items.

Submissions:  You must submit original and one (1) paper copy.  You may submit one (1) electronic copy on CD ROM.  Floppy disks and zip disks are not acceptable.

Disposition of Proposals: After contract award, the Government will dispose of unsuccessful proposals as follows: one copy will be retained with the contract file; the additional copies will be destroyed. No destruction certificate will be provided.

Formal Communications: Offerors should submit formal communications such as requests for clarifications and/or information concerning this solicitation in writing to the following address NO LATER THAN 12 CALENDAR DAYS PRIOR TO THE DATE SET FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS.

To assure timely and equitable evaluation of proposals, offerors must follow the instructions contained herein.  Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, including terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements, in addition to those identified as evaluation factors.  Failure to meet a requirement may result in an offer being ineligible for award.  Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and provide complete accompanying rationale.  The response shall consist of two (2) separate parts; Part I – Technical Proposal, and Part II – Price Proposal.  Offerors are cautioned to follow the detailed instructions fully and carefully, as the Government intends to make an award based on the initial offers received, without discussion of such offers.

The contracting officer has determined there is a high probability of adequate price competition in this acquisition.  Upon examination of the initial offers, the contracting officer will review this determination and if, in the contracting officer's opinion, adequate price competition exists no additional cost information will be requested and certification under  will not be required.  However, if at any time during this competition the contracting officer determines that adequate price competition no longer exists; offerors may be required to submit information to the extent necessary for the contracting officer to determine the reasonableness and affordability of the price.

Documents submitted in response to this RFP must be fully responsive to and consistent with the following:

	1.  Requirements of the RFP Contract Line Item (CLIN) and Statement of Objective 	(SOO), 	and Government standards, instructions and regulations pertaining to the 	Statement of Objective.

	2.  The proposal shall consist of two separate and detachable submissions as listed below.

	3.  Evaluation Factors for Award in 52.212-2 of this RFQ.

	4.  Any limitation on the number of proposal pages as follows:

 Proposal Page Limitations:

Technical Capability (Part I): Maximum of 60 pages total

Subfactor 1 - Technical Solution Proposal 

Subfactor 2 - System Attributes

Subfactor 3 - DIACAP Plan

Subfactor 4 - Software Deployment Plan

Subfactor 5 - Past Performance

Cost/Price (Part II): The Cost/Price proposal is not page limited; however, the Cost/Price proposal shall be used for only cost/price information.

Pages exceeding the page limitations set forth in this Section will not be read nor evaluated, but will be removed from the proposal.

Contents for each proposal shall be as follows:

FACTOR I – TECHNICAL- Limited to no more than sixty (60) pages.   Submit original plus one (1) copy.

The technical information shall not make reference to price data.  

The technical capability proposal should be specific, detailed, and clearly demonstrate that the offeror has a thorough understanding of the requirements for the accomplishment of this effort.  The technical capability proposal shall address the following sub-factors as stated in the evaluation factors for award:

(1) Subfactor 1 – Technical Solution Proposal:   The offeror shall provide a Technical Solution Proposal consistent with the Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 para. 2, Evaluation Factor I, Subfactor 1, Technical Solution Proposal. 

(2) Subfactor 2 –System Attributes:  The offeror shall provide System Attributes consistent with the Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 para. 2, Evaluation Factor I, Subfactor 2, System Attributes. 

(3) Subfactor 3 – DIACAP Plan:  The offeror shall provide a DIACAP Plan consistent with the Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 para. 2, Evaluation Factor I, Subfactor 3, DIACAP Plan. 

(4) Subfactor 4 –Software Deployment Plan:  The offeror shall provide a Software Deployment Plan consistent with the Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 para. 2, Evaluation Factor I, Subfactor 4, Software Deployment  Plan.

(5) Subfactor 5- Past Performance: The offeror shall provide Past Performance information consistent with the Addendum to FAR 52.212-2 para. 2, Evaluation Factor I, Subfactor 5, Past Performance

FACTOR II – PRICE PROPOSAL - Submit original and one (1) copy

The offeror will provide a firm fixed price (FFP) proposal in accordance with the Contract Line Items.  The contracting officer has determined there is a high probability of adequate price competition in this acquisition.  Upon examination of the initial offers, the contracting officer will review this determination and if, in the contracting officer's opinion, adequate price competition exists no additional cost information will be requested and certification under  will not be required.  However, if at any time during this competition the contracting officer determines that adequate price competition no longer exists; offerors may be required to submit information to the extent necessary for the contracting officer to determine the reasonableness and affordability of the price. 

   ADDENDUM TO 52.212-2

ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-2, EVALUATION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS 

BASIS FOR CONTRACT AWARD: 

1.  This is a competitive, best value source selection in which competing offerors’ technical solution factor is more important than price.  The government reserves the right to award to a higher priced offeror if the technical solution is rated higher. By submission of its offer, the offeror accedes to all solicitation requirements, including terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and technical requirements, in addition to those identified as evaluation factors or sub-factors. The Government seeks to award to the offeror who gives the Air Force the greatest confidence that it will meet or exceed the requirements affordably.  This may result in an award to a higher rated, higher priced offeror, where the decision is consistent with the evaluation factors. The government is interested in proposals that offer the best value in meeting the requirements with acceptable risk at a fair and reasonable price. Offerors must clearly identify any exception to the solicitation terms and conditions and provide complete accompanying rationale.  

The evaluation process shall proceed as follows:

2.  EVALUATION FACTORS:

Evaluation Factors: 

A)  Part I: Technical Acceptability: Initially, the government technical evaluation team shall evaluate the offerors qualification for the requirement as detailed in the Statement of Objective (SOO). The offerors technical information submission will be evaluated and given an adjectival rating.  Only those offers given a rating of excellent, good or satisfactory for each subfactor, either initially or as a result of clarifications/discussions, will proceed to the evaluation process or be considered for award.  Technical information will be evaluated on the five (5) subfactors listed below. Subfactors 1 through 4 will be given an adjectival rating. If any subfactor results in marginal or unsatisfactory rating it will render the entire technical final rating as unacceptable.   Adjectival ratings are explained in Table 1 below:





Subfactor 5 will be given a Performance Confidence Rating as outlined in Table 2 below.  A rating of “limited confidence” or “no confidence” will render the entire technical final rating as unacceptable.  Offerors with no relevant past or present performance history or the offeror’s performance record is so limited that no confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned shall receive the rating “Unknown Confidence”, meaning the rating is treated as neither favorably nor unfavorably. In evaluating  past performance, the government reserves the right to give greater consideration to information on those contracts deemed most relevant to the effort described in this solicitation.

Subfactor 1: Technical Solution Proposal. Provide a technical solution that meets all of the requirements of the Statement of Objective. A satisfactory response would include at a minimum:

A workflow explanation detailing how the contractor’s solution will meets the government’s requirements.

An explanation and example of how the contractor’s solution interfaces with CHCS/AHLTA/CliniComp’s Essentris electronic health record.

An explanation of how the contractor’s solution will deliver complete dictated/transcribed/approved and signed notes electronically.

4.     An explanation of how the contractor’s solution will meet HIPAA compliance.
5.     An explanation of how the remote transcription user will be connected to the hosted solution and the Eglin AFB MTF.

Subfactor 2: System Attributes: Provide description of the solution’s system attributes, which will ensure all requirements of the SOO are met. A satisfactory response would include at a minimum:

Explanation of encryption used that will meet requirements of the SOO.

Explanation of data storage.

A plan for on-site maintenance.

          4.	Detailed description of software that will be used, including an explanation of how the software will 	satisfy each requirement listed in the SOO, paragraph 3.

Subfactor 3: DIACAP Plan: Provide a DIACAP plan that demonstrates an understanding of the requirement and the contractor’s approach to DIACAP certification. A satisfactory response would include at a minimum:

A plan with evidence of ability to develop a DIACAP package.

A plan that includes how the contractor will evaluate the solution against DoD Instruction 8500.2 controls.

A plan that has the software ready for DIACAP certification within (14) days after award of contract.

Subfactor 4: Software Deployment Plan: Provide a software deployment plan that outlines required timelines from contract award to a “Go Live” date. A satisfactory response would include at a minimum:

1.  A plan with a date/time breakdown and anticipated development time.

2.  A plan that outlines the steps necessary to deploy the solution.

3. A plan with an anticipated “Go Live” date of thirty (30) days after award of contract.

Subfactor 5: Past Performance:  Provide any information currently available (letters, metrics, customer surveys, independent surveys, etc.) which demonstrates customer satisfaction with overall job performance and quality of completed product for same or similar type contract.  The past performance information must be recent, within the last three (3) years, and relevant (see Table 3) as pertaining to transcription software products.  In addition, explain corrective actions taken in the past, if any, for substandard performance and any current performance problems such as cost overruns, extended performance periods, numerous warranty calls, etc.



(1)  Quantifiable contractor quality and delivery performance data contained within the government-wide Past Performance Information Retrieval System-Statistical Reporting (PPIRS-SR) will be utilized in the evaluation of the past performance factor for offers received in response to this solicitation.  Suppliers with no history in PPIRS-SR will be displayed to contracting officers without a rating.

(2)  PPIRS-SR classifications are established monthly for each supplier and can be reviewed at 	.  Suppliers are granted access to PPIRS-SR for their own classifications.  Offerors are encouraged to review their own classifications as well as the PPIRS-SR reporting procedures and 	methodology detailed in the PPIRS-SR Procedures Manual and the PPIRS-SR User Guide available at .  The method to challenge a rating is also found on the identified website.  

Once the technical evaluation has been completed, only those proposals with ranking a technical evaluation of “satisfactory”, “good” or “excellent” in the adjectival ratings for Subfactors 1 through 4 AND a rating of “satisfactory confidence” or “substantial confidence” for Subfactor 5 shall  be ranked according to price.

B)  Part II: Price

Factor 1:  Price Evaluation. Once proposals are ranked by the technical evaluation, only proposals with an overall adjectival rating of excellent, good or satisfactory will be evaluated for price factors. The price evaluation will document reasonableness and affordability of the proposed total evaluated price. 

The basis of the proposed prices must be compatible with all other elements of the proposal. No advantage will accrue to an offeror who submits an unrealistically low price proposal. Such a proposal may be viewed as indicative of a lack of understanding of the Government's desired objective. Since discussions are not contemplated, the offeror should submit his/her best price upon initial submission of the proposal.  Any inconsistencies, (whether real or apparent) in price must be clearly justified. For example, if unique and innovative approaches are the basis for an abnormally low proposed price, the nature of these approaches and their impact to the proposed price must be completely documented. The burden of proof for cost credibility rests solely with the offeror. The following evaluation criteria shall apply:

Subfactor 1.  Completeness: Price will be considered complete when the offeror has proposed firm fixed prices for CLIN 0001. Offers for partial quantities will not be considered for award. Price will be evaluated to determine whether the offeror provided sufficient data as required by the solicitation.

Subfactor 2.  Reasonableness: Price reasonableness will be determined by comparing pricing of the other offers received in response to this solicitation.

If the lowest priced offer has the highest adjectival rating, “excellent” and highest past performance rating, “substantial confidence” from the technical evaluation and the offeror is determined to be responsible, that offer represents the best value to the government and the evaluation stops at this point.  Award shall be made to the offeror without further consideration of any other offers.

If the lowest priced offer does not have the highest adjectival rating, “excellent” and highest past performance rating, “substantial confidence” from the technical evaluation, the next lowest priced offeror will be evaluated and the process will continue (in order by price) until an offeror is judged to have an adjectival rating of “excellent” and a past performance rating of “substantial confidence” or until all offerors are evaluated. 

If there are no offerors with an adjectival rating of “excellent” and a past performance rating of “substantial confidence” for the technical evaluation, the process will start again with the lowest priced offeror.  

If the lowest priced offer has adjectival rating, “good” and highest past performance rating, “substantial confidence” from the technical evaluation and the offeror is determined to be responsible, that offer represents the best value to the government and the evaluation stops at this point.  Award shall be made to the offeror without further consideration of any other offers.

If the lowest priced offer does not have the highest adjectival rating, “good” and highest past performance rating, “substantial confidence” from the technical evaluation, the next lowest priced offeror will be evaluated and the process will continue (in order by price) until and offeror is judged to have an adjectival rating of “good” and a past performance rating of “substantial confidence” or until all offerors are evaluated. 

Note:  The government intends to award a contract without discussions with respective offerors.  The government, however, reserves the right to conduct discussions if deemed in its best interest.  Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.  The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later the Contracting Officer determines to be necessary.  The Government may reject any and all offers if such is in the public interest;  accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in received offers. 

End of Addendum to FAR 52.212-2—Evaluation of Commercial Items 

Attachments:	

	1) Attachment 1 – Statement of Objective                        1 Page

	2) Attachment 2 – DFARS 252.209-7999		   1 Page





(viii)   Proposal submission:

 PROPOSAL MUST BE RECEIVED AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS no later than 3:00PM (central time) on 18 October 2012:



AFTC/PZIOBC (Contracting)

Attn:  Jenna McGinnis

308 West “D” Ave., Bldg. 260, Ste. 130

Eglin Air Force Base, FL  32542



Vendors must be registered in System for Award Management (www.sam.gov) before award can be made. All responses must be received no later than 1:00 P.M., CENTRAL TIME ON 18 October 2012. A determination for award is twenty-one (21) days after the due date.  For questions, contact the contract administrator, Jenna McGinnis at (850) 882-0338 or the contracting officer, Juanita Paci at (850) 882-4418.





TABLE 1

TABLE 1

Adjectival Rating

Explanation

Excellent

The proposal strengths demonstrate an excellent understanding of the requirements and the new or proven approach significantly exceeds performance or capability standards.  The proposal has several exceptional strengths that will significantly benefit the government.  The proposal has no weaknesses; normal contractor effort and normal government monitoring will be sufficient to minimize risk.  The proposal is extensive, detailed, and exceeds all requirements and objectives; therefore, has a high probability of meeting the requirements with little or no risk to the government.



Good

The proposal demonstrates a good understanding of the requirements and the approach exceeds performance or capability standards.  The proposal has one or more strengths that will benefit the government.  Any proposal weakness has little potential to cause a disruption of schedule, an increase in cost, or a degradation of performance.  Normal contractor effort and normal government monitoring will probably be able to overcome difficulties.  The proposal generally exceeds requirements in minor areas; therefore, has a good probability of meeting the requirements with little risk to the government.



Satisfactory

The proposal demonstrates an acceptable understanding of the requirements and the approach meets performance or capability standards.  The proposal has no additional strengths that will benefit the government.  The proposal has no material weaknesses.  Any proposal weakness can potentially cause a disruption of schedules, an increase in cost, or a degradation of performance.  Special contractor emphasis and close government monitoring will probably minimize any difficulties of risk.  The proposal generally meets requirements; therefore, has an acceptable probability of meeting the requirements.



Marginal

The proposal demonstrates a limited understanding of the requirements and the approach only marginally meets performance or capability standards necessary for minimal contract performance.  The proposal has minor omissions and demonstrates a misunderstanding of the requirement that may be corrected or resolved through discussions without a complete revision of the proposal.  The approach has weaknesses that can potentially cause some disruption of schedule, increase in cost, or degradation of performance even with special contractor emphasis, and close government monitoring.



Unsatisfactory

The proposal demonstrates a misunderstanding of the requirements and the approach fails to meet performance or capability standards.  The proposal has major omissions and inadequate detail to assure the evaluators that the offeror has an understanding of the requirements.  The proposal proposes an unacceptable risk and cannot meet the requirements without major revisions.





TABLE 2

TABLE 2

RATING

DESCRIPTION

SUBSTANTIAL CONFIDENCE

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the government has a high expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

SATISFACTORY CONFIDENCE

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the government has an expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.  

LIMITED CONFIDENCE

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the government has a low expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

NO CONFIDENCE

Based on the offeror’s performance record, the government has no expectation that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.

UNKNOWN CONFIDENCE

No performance record is identifiable or the offeror’s performance record is so sparse that no confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned



Table 3. Past Performance Relevancy Ratings

Table 3. Past Performance Relevancy Ratings

Rating

Definition

Very Relevant

Present/past performance effort involved essentially the same scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.

Relevant

Present/past performance effort involved similar scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.

Somewhat Relevant

Present/past performance effort involved some of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.

Not Relevant

Present/past performance effort involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.For Official Use Only

Statement of Objective (SOO) for Transcription Interface Software Platform
1.0 SCOPE: The Transcription Interface Software Platform is an effort to provide a software based solution that will provide transcriptionists remote access to providers' dictated notes and a method to upload completed transcribed documents for providers to review and sign digitally. This transcription and dictation system shall be Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliant and must meet Department of Defense (DoD) Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) certification. The solution shall be capable of interfacing with Military Health System (MHS) approved Electronic Health Record (EHR) and associated systems (Composite Health Care System [CHCS]/CliniComp's Essentris/Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application [AHLTA] ).

2.0 SOLUTION REQUIREMENTS: Solution must be able to interface with the Air Force Network through the security firewall. 2.1. Information Assurance Requirements 2.1.1 DIACAP certification capable. 2.1.2 HIPAA compliant 2.1.3 Remote maintenance of on-site servers must utilize Juniper Network Security Solution. 2.1.4 Digital signature capable. 2.1.5 Access to documents must be connected over the internet via a secure HTTPS (SSL) connection. 2.1.6 Remote transcription user must be connected to the hosted solution and the Eglin AFB MTF using 256 bit AES SSL encryption. 2.1.7 Secure data storage. 3.0 CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS 3.1 24 hour a day access to a toll-free number for access to the contractor's hosted telephone dictation system. 3.2 Solution must provide the capability to import documents from the contractor's solution into the software solution installed on Eglin AFB Network. 3.3 Solution must be capable of accepting HL7 messages sent electronically by CHCS. 3.4 Providers must have access to the software solution for transcription review, revision, and signature- to include co-signature. 3.5 Software must provide a distinction between inpatient and outpatient documents. 3.6 System must contain a solution for back-up dictation and a solution to use during a network downtime. 3.7 Solution must have a routine maintenance plan for on-site/off-site maintenance. For Official Use Only 1

For Official Use Only

For Official Use Only 2

