Cross Domain Pre-Bid 

Conference Minutes

16 July 09/1000 

1. a site visit was performed today to discuss the upcoming submission of the proposal.  there were several companies that attended the meeting and several areas were discussed as noted below:

10:00 AM – CONTRACTING OFFICER DISCUSSED the following areas: 

Sign-in sheet was passed out for signatures

Attendees’ introduction – Government personnel and contractors

Statement of Objectives – was discussed to ensure everyone was familiar with what the Govt was looking into purchasing. 

How proposal will be awarded – proposal will be awarded to the company that can provide the best solution and price.  It will be awarded on 50% technical review and 50% best price. 

Allotted amount of project 

Project submission due date and possible amendments – due date is 10 Aug 09 by 4:00PM Pacific Time Zone

Proposal Request for Information sheets were provided as a means to submit questions either via fax or e-mail 

Site visit procedures – ensure everyone stays together during the walk through any questions brought during the site visit these would have to be submitted in writing the contracting office not later than 21 Jul 09  and these questions would be posted with their respective answers. 

Main goal of statement of objective: awarding the first priority and if there were more funding available they would look at awarding the second priority.

Line items regarding travel – to include (airline, meals and lodging should be taken into consideration and ensure they travel by using the rates of the JTR)

Project magnitude – this project has a specific amount that can be awarded therefore if bidders felt their proposals did not fall under the project magnitude, we would not be able to award to their firm – project magnitude for this project will be between $100K - $300K. 

It was reiterated that all inquiries and e-mails will be forwarded directly to the contracting office and not the customers. 

When submitting proposals, please submit the pricing part separately from the technical part. 

10:13 AM – Technical pesonnel discussed the following subjects. 

Importance of inoperability and thin client aspect

Use of Common Access Card will be utilized 

Ability to move files back and forth

Reiterate statement of objectives and submitting questions in writing

Pricing and concept format in proposals for technicians

10:20 AM – Tour of the joc facility 

Discussing overall objective while performing the tour

System’s will have to be accredited

The line item features of the accreditation 

Structures having different mandates and governing authorities regarding written questions

Turnaround time of answering questions in detail

10:23 AM – Closing statements 

Questions being submitted by July 21 @ 4:30 PM (end of day)

Considering extending proposal date if some of the questions cannot be answered timely, this will be done via amendment through FedBizOpps. 

Submit questions as soon as possible do not wait till 21 Jul 09 dead line. 

Winning contractor will be awarded what’s provided for by government

Training will be provided by winning contractor on the new software. 

Winning contract will be posted once awarded under FedBizOpps.  Do not call a couple of days after proposals are submitted asking who won the bid as it will take a couple of weeks for the technical part to be evaluated.

Meeting adjourned at 1100.
COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE JOB TITLE E-MAIL
INX Inc. Charles Dahl Virtualization Consultant cary.dahl@inxi.com
Mainline Information Systems Robin Graham Account Representative robin.graham@mainline.com
Commercial Data Systems Bill Villa Senior Account Executive bill.villa@cdsinc.com
Trusted Computer Solutions Dana Smith Director, Sales dsmith@trustedcs.com
Trusted Computer Solutions Alex Nicklas Account Executive anicklas@trustedcs.com
Northrup Grumman Karl Allen Program Manager k.allen@ngc.com
Booz Allen Hamilton Nirav Desai Associate desai_nirav@bah.com
Booz Allen Hamilton Jonathan Porter Associate porter_jonathan@bah.com
EDS Chris Forness Site Delivery Manager chris.forness@nmei-isf.com
EDS Daryn Bartlett Service Delivery Manager daryn.bartlett@eds.com
Accenture Tom Griffith VP Mission Services thomas.griffith@accenture.com
Accenture James Najera Software Engineer james.n.najera@accenture.com
Accenture Aaron Nelson Software Engineer a.t.nelson@accenture.com
Military Department Dennis Trout IT OPS Manager dennis.trout@mil.wa.gov
General Dynamics David Muchi Sales Engineering Manager david.muchi@gdc4s.com
General Dynamics Ed Zahniser Product Manager ed.zahniser@gdc4s.com
194 MSG Jim Wahl Superintendent james.wahl@wataco.ang.af.mil
194 MSG Ron Jimerson Telecom Manager ronald.jimerson@wataco.ang.af.mil
WA ARNG G6 Alexander Hamilton Systems Administrator alex.hamilton@us.army.mil
WA ARNG G6 Thomas Muehleisen G6 Major thomas.muehleisen@us.army.mil
WA ARNG G6 Eric Grice Management Analyst eric.grice@us.army.mil
WA ARNG G6 Daniel Hughes Plans & Policy - COR daniel.hughes1@us.army.mil
