Attachment A

STATEMENT OF WORK
CLOUD HOSTING SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR THE INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION SCIENCES I. BACKGROUND

The Institute of Education Sciences (IES) of the U.S. Department of Education (ED) currently hosts an array of websites that support its data collection and dissemination activities in its own dedicated server facility. To reduce costs, improve efficiency, and allow for growth and innovation, IES has identified Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) or cloud hosting as the best option to replace its physical datacenter. IaaS hosting model enables convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable and reliable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal user effort or service provider interaction. Additional server, storage, and bandwidth resources can be added almost immediately as demand increases and as applications grow in complexity and size. Managing IaaS can be done by IES staff using a web interface or programmatically using an application programming interface (API), allowing us to scale up or down resources as necessary. Instead of paying for individual servers on a purchase or lease basis, IES will pay for abstract metered computer resources such as central processing using (CPU) cycles, memory, storage, with an ability to increase or decrease our usage as needed with the associated fees adjusting accordingly. The IaaS service sought by IES would host and serve most or all of the public-facing websites and systems currently housed in IES' physical data center. The proposed IaaS service should be able to be certified and accredited to Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) requirements with a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 199 categorization of Moderate and comply with the security standards detailed in the FIPS 140-2.

II.

SCOPE OF WORK

The scope of the contract includes all work associated with the IaaS Cloud service. The base Period of Performance will be one 12 month base period from date of award with four one-year option periods. The objective of this Statement of Work is to acquire the services of a Contractor to provide server operations support and access to a virtualized hosting environment that is capable of being certified and accredited at the FISMA-Moderate level to support IES in its dissemination and survey collection systems.

III.

REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor shall provide system operations support staff with experience supporting federal data centers with both physical and virtualized environments.

The Contractor shall provide access to a cost effective virtualized hosting solution based on industry standards and best practices. The virtualized hosting solution shall provide the best value to Government while at the same time allowing IES the flexibility to meet future requirements. The virtualized hosting solution shall meet all requirements set forth in this section. The Contractor's proposal shall describe their methods of compliance with these requirements and will be incorporated into the proposed service level agreement (SLA).

Task 1.

System Operations Support Requirements

The Contractor shall provide system operations support staff equivalent to three (3) full-time FTEs, able to perform their work on-site at the government's facility. Support staff shall have experience working with systems in a federal owned data center and demonstrate an understanding through past performance of government IT mandates, regulations and best practices. Support staff shall have demonstrated experience with and have strong understanding of privacy and data integrity concerns of federal statistical agencies. The contractor shall: a. Support IES' website operations by providing technical expertise in Microsoft Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS). b. Support IES' server operations by maintaining the physical server environment that currently hosts IES's systems. These server support efforts will gradually shift to the IaaS hosting solution as services are transitioned from physical to virtual hosting. c. Plan and support the migration of IES' systems from the current physical hosting environment to the IaaS virtual hosting solution. d. Provide management of the virtual network and virtual servers, Microsoft server and IIS support, SQL database maintenance, and ad hoc custom application support. The contractor staff shall act as technical point of contact on system related issues for other contractor staff working with IES.

Task 2.

IaaS Solution

General Requirements for IaaS Solution The Contractor shall provide a cost effective cloud-based infrastructure as a service that utilizes industry standards and best practices that meet or exceed the following criteria. The Contractor shall: a. Provide access to an IaaS hosted by an established cloud services provider that can demonstrate past performance with federal government clients that meets or exceeds FISMA requirements for information systems categorized as FIPS-199 defined Moderate and complies with the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Process (FedRAMP) requirements. b. Provide a solution that shall be physically located in the continental United States, and be in a facility capable of being certified and accredited to host U.S. Government systems. 2

c. Provide a solution that has a flexible, scalable, and reconfigurable technical foundation to respond to increasing usage demands and government needs. d. Provide a technical foundation which allows IES to deploy its web hosting architecture. e. Provide a robust, fault tolerant infrastructure that allows for high availability of 99.9%, and a one (1) hour recovery time after failure. f. Provide multiple physical hosting facilities in different geographic locations to allow for hardware fault tolerance, disaster recovery, and reduced network latency.

g. Provide an IaaS solution provider that has zero-exit costs (e.g., no lock in) to migrate to other providers if necessary. h. Provide documentation of their compliance with appropriate industry standards as applied to the proposed hosted solution. i. j. Have demonstrated experience with and have strong understanding of privacy concerns of federal statistical agencies in respect to sensitive data. Provide technical documentation required for certification and accreditation.

Technical Requirements for IaaS Solution The Contractor shall provide a cost effective solution that utilizes proven and stable virtualization technologies, which encompass the following criteria: Virtual Infrastructure: a. Provides centralized, web-based management of virtual resources. b. Provides machine-to-machine interfaces (e.g., application programming interface (API) or command line) to manage virtual resources. c. Provides the capability to report real-time usage metrics to include CPU, memory, disk, and network. d. Provides support for virtual machines running Microsoft Windows and Linux with full root access. e. Provides the capability to dynamically reallocate virtual machines based on load, with minimal service interruption. f. Provides the capability to create virtual machine templates, allowing IES to define its own virtual machine images and upload them to be used.

g. Provides the capability to copy or clone virtual machines for archiving, troubleshooting, and testing. h. Provides multiple network interfaces per virtual server to allow for network fault tolerance. i. j. Provides multiple IP addresses per network interface. Provides the option to load-balance internet traffic to multiple servers and nodes.

k. Provides the option to create an isolated virtual private network, allowing for IES to assign its own IP address ranges, create subnets and routing tables that can limit network connectivity, isolate servers by role, and provide better security. l. Provides support for Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6). 3

Virtualization Hypervisor: a. Provides virtualization capabilities that support 32 bit and 64 bit operations b. Provides support for multiple processor virtual machines up to 8 cores. c. Provides support for virtual machines with virtual processors that are equivalent to 3 GHz per virtual processor core. d. Provides support for virtual machines with memory requirements up to 68 GB. Virtualization Storage: a. Provides high availability centralized network accessible storage. b. Provides the ability to attach multiple drives per virtual server instance. c. Provides the ability to snapshot storage volumes for backup and replication purposes. d. Provides adequate flexibility for increasing storage capacity up to 1 TB per drive. e. Provides the ability to scale across multiple physical sites.

IV.

TASK ORDER REQUIREMENTS

ED contemplates awarding a firm-fixed-price Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract to a single, successful offeror. Work under Task 3 and Task 4 will be issued as task orders, as the need arises. The contractor shall not perform the following tasks unless ED issues a task order.

Task 3.

System Licenses

The Contractor shall provide system and software licenses allowing for additional functionality in support of IES' cloud hosted systems. Examples of additional licenses and services include, but are not limited to, Sourcefire Snort IDS, Riverbed Stingray Traffic Manager and Application Firewall, and Google Enterprise Search Services ­ Google Site Search.

Task 4.

Technical Writing

The Contractor shall provide technical writing services for preparation of documentation in support of Security Certification & Accreditation. This documentation shall include, but is not limited to: a. Annual Self-Assessment b. Configuration Management Plan c. Contingency Plan/Disaster Recovery Plan d. Contingency Plan Test e. Data Sensitivity Worksheet f. System Security Plan 4

g. Business Impact Analysis h. Privacy Impact Assessments

V.

DELIVERABLES

Schedule of Deliverables Activity Task 1. System Operations Support Task 2. IaaS Hosting Service Deliverable Support personnel assigned to support IaaS systems Availability of Base Virtualized Hosting Environment System license or software Estimated Due Date Within three weeks from award date Within two weeks from award date Within two weeks of request for license Initial draft due 2 weeks after assignment; revised versions due 1 week after comments received

Task 3. System Licenses

Task 4. Technical Writing

Preparation of documentation in support of Security Certification and Accreditation (C&A)

VI.

INVOICING

Invoicing The contractor shall submit to the Government an invoice for the deliverables that were submitted to and accepted by the Government during that month. The invoice for the prior month's work must be received by 21st of each month. The invoice shall be submitted to OCFOCAMINVOICNG@ED.GOV with a carbon copy to the Contracting Officer (CO), Contract Specialist (CS), Contracting Officer Representative (COR) , and Task Leader. Monthly Report Along with the invoice, the contractor shall submit monthly reports on or before the 10th of each month. The monthly reports are to be submitted electronic transmission. The monthly report shall be submitted to the CO, CS, COR, and Task Leader. The report shall include the following: a) The progress on each task and activity relative to the schedule and a discussion of discrepancies; b) Accomplishments associated with each task and activity for the month; c) Problems that have been resolved or are in need of resolution; 5

d) A discussion of the work to be performed during the next monthly reporting period; e) The number of hours expended by all contractor staff by staff person; f) The number of hours expended by all subcontractor staff by person; g) Brief description of the work performed by each subcontractor during the month; h) Funding expended by major category, including staff, travel, consultant, subcontractors, and other costs, including obligated costs of subcontractors; and i) Expected future technical and budgetary problems and proposed solutions to these.

VII.

PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

The contractor shall perform the majority of the work identified on-site at the government location. This will be considered the primary duty station. ED will provide adequate workspace for contractor staff located on-site. ED will provide access badges, email accounts, desks, copy and fax services, and supplies necessary to complete the requirements of the assigned work.

VIII. OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Confidentiality Requirements The Contractor shall implement such confidentiality and security provisions as IES may require (see Section IX). Staffing The contractor shall provide in writing at least two (2) weeks advanced notice for replacement of staff proposed. This notice shall be provided to the CO, CS, COR, and Task Leader and shall include justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the program. All resumes of proposed replacement staff must be provided and approved by the COR and Task Leader before replacing any individual on this project. Deliverables The contractor shall provide all deliverables in electronic formats. The contractor shall provide all computer programming source file and code used in the creation of deliverables.

6

IX.

DATA CONFIDENTIALITY, DATA SECURITY PLAN, AFFIDAVIT OF NONDISCLOSURE, AND QUALITY CONTROL

Confidentiality of Individuals and Institutions IES assures participating individuals and institutions that any data collected conforms to the IES standards for protecting the privacy of individuals as required by Section 183 of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-279): ". . . all collection, maintenance, use, and wide dissemination of data by the Institute, including each office, board, committee, and Center of the Institute, shall conform with the requirements of section 552A of Title 5, United States Code [which protects the confidentiality rights of individual respondents with regard to the data collected, reported, and published under this title]." (Section 183) Under the ESRAof 2002 (ESRA 2002), all individually identifiable information about students, their families, and their schools shall remain confidential. To this end, this law requires that no person may:    Use any individually identifiable information furnished under the provisions of this section for any purpose other than statistical purposes for which it is supplied, except in the case of terrorism; Make any publication whereby the data furnished by any particular person under this section can be identified; or Permit anyone other than the individuals authorized by the Commissioner to examine individual reports.

Further, individually identifiable information is immune from legal process, and shall not, without the consent of the individual concerned, be admitted as evidence or used for any purpose in any action, suit, or other judicial or administrative proceeding, except in the case of terrorism. Employees, including temporary employees, or other persons who have sworn to observe the limitations imposed by this law, who knowingly publish or communicate any individually identifiable information will be subject to fines of up to $250,000 or up to 5 years in prison, or both (Class E felony). Protection and Security of Data The confidentiality of individually identifiable information contained in project documents, data, and other information supplied by the IES/ED or information acquired in the course of performance under this contract where the information was furnished under the provisions of Section 183 of the Education Sciences Reform Act (ESRA) of 2002 is a material aspect of the contract and must be maintained, secured, and protected from disclosure as provided in Section 183. The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) also applies. The contractor shall be familiar with and comply with: 1) The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), 2) Confidentiality Information Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act (CIPSEA) of 2002 (P.L. 107-347, Title V, Subtitle A, "Confidential Information Protection"), 7

3) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99), 4) The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), 5) The Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-279), 6) No Child Left Behind Act (20 U.S.C. 70), 7) USA Patriot Act of 2001 (P.L. 107-56), 8) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Federal Statistical Confidentiality Order of 1997, 9) OMB Guidance of 7/12/2006 on the Reporting of Incidents Involving Personally Identifiable Information (M-06-19), http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/memoranda/fy2006/mo6-19.pdf , 10) OMB Guidance of 5/22/2006 on Safeguarding Personally Identifiable Information (M- 06-15) http://www/whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2006/m-06-15.pdf, 11) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 (P.L. 107-347, Title III), 12) Federal Risk and Authorization Management Process (FedRAMP) 13) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. '794 d) 14) Any new legislation that impacts the data collection through this contract.

The contractor shall maintain the confidentiality of all documents, data, and other information supplied by IES/ED or acquired in the course of performance of this contract, except for any documents or other information specifically designated as non-confidential by IES/ED. The contractor shall take such measures as are necessary to maintain the required security and protection of confidential information (see section Data Security Plan). Compliance with ED IT Security Policy The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall comply with ED's IT security policy requirements, specifically those set forth in the `Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy (OCIO -01)', and other applicable procedures and guidance. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall develop and implement management, operational and technical security controls to assure required levels of protection for information systems. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall further comply with all applicable Federal IT security requirements including, but not limited to, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 and the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Process (FedRAMP). These security requirements include, but are not limited to, the successful Certification and Accreditation (C&A) or Security Authorization (SA) of the system (includes commercially owned and operated systems managed by the commercial vendor and its sub-contractors, supporting Department programs, contracts, and projects); obtaining a full Authority to Operate (ATO) before being granted operational status; performance of annual self-assessments of security controls; annual Contingency Plan testing; performance of periodic vulnerability scans; updating all information system security documentation as changes occur; and other continuous monitoring activities, which may include, mapping, penetration and other intrusive scanning. Full and unfettered access for ED's third party Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP) must be granted to access all computers and networks used for this system. 8

Additionally, when there is a significant change to the system's security posture, the system (Federal and commercial prime- and sub- contractors included) must have a new C&A or SA, with all required activities to obtain a new ATO, signed by the Authorizing Official (AO). System security controls shall be designed and implemented consistent with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) SP 800-53 Rev 3, `Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations.' All NIST SP 800-53 controls must be tested / assessed no less than every 3 years, according to federal and Department policy. The risk impact level of the system will be determined via the completion of ED's inventory form and shall meet the accurate depiction of security categorization as outlined in Federal Information Publishing Standards (FIPS) 199, `Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems.' System security documentation shall be developed to record and support the implementation of the security controls for the system. This documentation shall be maintained for the life of the system. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall review and update the system security documentation at least annually and after significant changes to the system, to ensure the relevance and accurate depiction of the implemented system controls and to reflect changes to the system and its environment of operation. Security documentation must be developed in accordance with the NIST 800 series and Department of Education policy and guidance. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall allow ED employees (or Department designated third party contractors) access to the hosting facility to conduct C&A/SA activities to include control reviews in accordance with NIST SP 800-53, Rev. 3 and NIST SP 800-53A. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall be available for interviews and demonstrations of security control compliance to support the C&A/SA process and continuous monitoring of system security. In addition, if the system is rated as `Moderate' or `High' for FIPS 199 risk impact, vulnerability scanning and penetration testing shall be performed on the hosting facility and application as part of the C&A/SA process. Appropriate access agreements will be reviewed and signed before any scanning or testing occurs. Identified deficiencies between required NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3 controls and the contractor's, and all sub-contractor's implementation, as documented in the Risk Assessment Report, System Security Plan (SSP) and Security Assessment Report (SAR), shall be tracked for mitigation through the development of a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) in accordance with the `Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy (OCIO-01).' Depending on the severity of the deficiencies, ED may require remediation before an ATO is issued. All awarded contracts shall ensure that: 1. Their IT product/system is monitored during all hours of operations using entrusted detective/preventive systems; 2. Their IT product/system has current antiviral products installed and operational; 3. Their IT product/system is scanned on a reoccurring basis; 4. Vulnerabilities are remediated in a timely manner on their IT product/system; and

9

5. Access/view for cyber security situational awareness on their IT product/system is made available to ED CIRC (cyber incident response capability). Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) For IPv6, the contractor shall provide commercially available, off-the-shelf solutions that are IPv6 capable. An IPv6 capable system or product shall be capable of receiving, processing, transmitting and forwarding IPv6 packets and/or interfacing with other systems and protocols in a manner similar to that of IPv4. Specific criteria to be deemed IPv6 capable are:    An IPv6 capable system that meets the IPv6 base requirements defined by the USGv6 Profile and Testing program as found here (http://www.antd.nist.gov/usgv6/profile.html). Systems being developed, procured or acquired shall maintain interoperability with IPv4 systems/capabilities. Systems shall implement IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack and shall also be built to determine which protocol layer to use depending on the destination host it is attempting to communicate with or establish a socket with. If either protocol is possible, systems shall employ IPv6.

The contractor shall provide IPv6 technical support for system development, implementation and management. System Development Standards Information systems shall be developed in accordance with the ED Lifecycle Management Framework (LCM), ACS-OCIO 1-106. Reporting of Data Security Breaches If there is a suspected or known breach/disclosure of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) due to lost, theft, intercepted transfer, or other, the contractor must ensure that this breach is reported to the agency as soon as the contractor has knowledge of it. Per Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-0619, Federal agencies have a requirement to report breaches of PII security to a Federal incident response center. IES must notify ED within 30 minutes of discovering the incident (and the agency should not distinguish between suspected or confirmed breaches). The data security plan must be written to reflect this requirement, and the contractor must provide sufficient notification and documentation of the suspected loss, as it is understood at the time of notification to the agency for this requirement to be met. Follow-up reports of the final status of loss events will also be prepared by the contractor within a reasonable period of time as advised by the IES COR. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests If the contractor receives a FOIA request for any data under this contract, then the contractor will immediately refer this request to the COR. IES will process all FOIA requests related to this contract. Implementation of Data Security Plan The contractor shall conform to the agreed-upon approved data security plan, in all activities, and shall 10

strictly enforce all procedures for ensuring confidentiality. These procedures will apply to all phases of the project, including (but not limited to): 1) Data collection in the field; 2) The transfer or transport of PII in any format, including paper records and electronic data files; 3) Safeguarding and storage of master data files and response/collection documents and electronic files. Affidavit of Nondisclosure Any contractor employee with access to confidential information including IT systems used for receiving, storing, transmitting, and accessing confidential information (i.e., personally identifiable information) under this contract shall first sign an Affidavit of Nondisclosure. Before any contractor employee starts work on the contract and has access to confidential information, a signed Affidavit of Nondisclosure must be completed. As new staff start and require access to confidential information or as staff who originally did not require such access subsequently need it, an Affidavit of Nondisclosure shall be executed by them on the first working day of the assignment. The contractor shall indicate the position in the organization of the person signing the Affidavit of Nondisclosure, and the person's functional relationship to this project in a memorandum provided to the COR. The contractor shall execute these Affidavits of Nondisclosure, submit the signed Affidavits to the COR, and the contractor shall maintain the copies at its office. The contractor shall make Acrobat pdf copies of new Affidavits as they are completed. Throughout the life of the contract Affidavits of Nondisclosure for new project staff, including any short-term personnel, will be submitted to the COR on a flow basis. The contractor shall be able to produce the original hard copies of the Affidavits within a few hours notice from the COR. Security and Confidentiality Training During the course of work on the tasks in this contract, contractor employees will be supporting IaaS used for receiving, storing, transmitting, and accessing data that are confidential. Given the restrictions on the use and handling of confidential information, all contractor employees with access to confidential information related to this contract shall be required to participate in IES approved security and confidentiality training. Contractor Employee Security Screening Requirements ED has established policy on personnel security screening for all contractor and subcontractor employees and their field staff. The relevant Departmental Directive is OM:5-101. It was last updated in July 2010 and can be found at: http://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/leg/foia/acsom5101.pdf . The contractor must comply with the personnel security-screening requirements in OM:5-101 throughout the life of the contract. All contractor and subcontractor employees must undergo personnel security screening if they will be employed for thirty (30) days or more.

11

The type of screening and the timing of the screening will depend upon the nature of the contractor position, the type of data the contractor employee will have access to, or the type of ED IT system they will access. Personnel security screenings will be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm the individual could cause to ED or the public. A position risk level will be assigned to each contractor employee position, before a solicitation is released, consistent with the descriptions in Appendix I of OM:5-101. Hence, each contractor employee working on this contract must be assigned a position risk level. Depending on the risk level assigned to each person's position, a follow-up background investigation by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) may occur.

The contractor must identify one of their employees as a security liaison for this process. This Contractor Security Liaison coordinates the distribution, collection, and dissemination of various forms required in this process. They answer general questions from their employees on completing the security screening process. And, they are the first point of contact for contractor employees in using the OPM's internet based security screening portal called the Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) ( http://www.opm.gov/e-qip/ ). The contractor is also responsible for ensuring that all subcontractors follow these personnel security screening procedures.
IES requires each contractor employee to have or apply for a clearance for the security level designated for the position held on a contract. Contractor employees who have undergone appropriate personnel security screening for another Federal agency will be required to submit proof of that personnel security screening for validation. For these employees, the contractor or subcontractor must follow these required steps:

1. The contractor must send the COR a letter on Company letterhead that lists the full name of each
employee with a pre-existing clearance, the agency that cleared the employee, the level of the clearance, and the date of the clearance. This letter must be transmitted to the COR within two (2) business days of starting work on an IES contract.

2. In those cases where any of the required information on level of clearance, agency that cleared the
employee and date of clearance is not available, the contractor must send the COR a letter on Company letterhead that lists the full name and Social Security Number for each employee with a pre-existing clearance. This letter must be transmitted to the COR within two (2) business days of starting work on an IES contract.

3. The COR will transmit the letter to the IES Security Representative for processing. 4.
The IES Security Representative reviews the letter to ensure that the required information is provided and either returns it to the contractor for completion or releases it to ED's Chief of Personnel Security. The contractor must resubmit the letter to the COR within 7 business days or the contractor employee must be removed from the contract. clearance was identified and ruled to be acceptable by ED's Chief of Personnel Security.

5. The IES Security Representative will notify the contractor or subcontractor if the pre-existing

12

6. Those employees whose pre-existing clearances are not verified and approved must follow the
process outlined next to apply for a security clearance. For contractor employees who have not undergone appropriate personnel security screening for another Federal agency, all contractors must comply with the Principal Office (PO) Executive Office or Computer Security Officer's pre-processing requirements for personnel security screening and granting access privileges. No contractor employees are permitted unsupervised access to unclassified sensitive information (i.e., personally identifiable information), direct access to respondents who are minors, or Department of Education IT systems until they have submitted applicable security screening documents. For each contractor employee in a high risk level position the completed security screening documents must be accepted by the COR and the IES Security Representative and submitted to ED's Chief of Personnel Security within 14 days of the date the contractor employee starts working on the contract. In order to meet this Departmental requirement, steps 1 through 7 must be completed within 14 days of the date the contractor employee starts working on the contract. To meet this 14 day deadline and the interim deadlines specified below, it is strongly recommended that the contractor request the account initiation three (3) weeks before the contractor employee starts contract work and encourage each contractor employee to complete all required security screening forms before starting contract work. Contractor employees in High Risk IT (6C) Level positions require preliminary personnel security screenings before they are given access to unclassified sensitive information or Department of Education IT systems. The security screening of contractor and subcontractor employees not holding ED recognized security screening credentials must follow these required steps: 1. The contractor must provide the COR with an electronic listing of all employees on a specific contract, with the risk level associated with the position held by each employee as specified in the contract solicitation. The COR will review the electronic listing for completeness and approve. The listing will not be approved if it is found to be incomplete. 2. ED's participates in the OPM e-QIP system to facilitate the security screening process for contractor employees. IES will initiate an e-QIP account for each contractor employee. It is advisable to request the account initiation three (3) weeks before the contractor employee starts contract work. For the initiation of these accounts, the Contractor Security Liaison must use the CORapproved list of employees and the risk levels assigned to the employees' positions to produce and submit the following list using the attached template: a. For each contractor employee provide: Social Security Number, Full Name, Date of Birth, Place of Birth, risk level, e-Mail Address, and phone number. The Contractor Security Liaison must place the spreadsheet in a password protected file, then upload the list to the IES secure server, and send an e-mail notification of the transmission to the IES Security Representative. The IES security staff will use this list to establish the contactor employee e-QIP accounts. The COR will work with the contractor to establish access to the IES secure server at the outset of the contract.

13

b. Once IES sets up the e-QIP accounts for contract employees, the IES Security Representative will send an email to the Contractor Security Liaison stating that the employee has an active account on the e-QIP system. The COR is copied on this email notification. c. The Contractor Security Liaison must notify their employees of this active account. A computer with Internet access and web browsing software is required for the contractor employee to access their E-QIP account. Each employee must log into their personal account in e-QIP, enter the requested information, finish the application process and print, sign, and date the e-QIP signature pages. 3. Each contractor employee must submit a completed set of security screening forms to their Contractor Security Liaison as provided by the IES Security Representative, including for example:

a. The signed and dated e-QIP signature pages, b. The Declaration of Federal Employment (OPM form OF-306), c.
The Fair Credit Release Form,

d. The Request for Security Officer Action (RSA) Form,
1) The contractor employee shall complete only those items in section 1 of the form (name, date of birth, place of birth, organization, position title, duty station, social security number, and work phone number). 2) The contractor shall complete section 5 (Project Requiring Highest ADP Level) using the assigned security clearance for each employee's position.

e. Two sets of fingerprints on separate copies of form FD-258,
1) The Contractor Security Liaison shall help arrange fingerprinting for each contractor and subcontractor employee. Fingerprinting can usually be done at a local police station. (Electronic fingerprints are not accepted at this time.) 4. Each contractor must ensure that the forms are complete and that all contractor employee required security screening forms are transmitted to the COR within two (2) business days of an employee starting work on an IES contract.

a. The Contractor Security Liaison must collate the forms in each security screening package by
employee and transmit a complete set of security screening documents for each employee to the COR via courier (e.g., Federal Express) using a tracking number with signature required,

b. The COR will not accept security screening packages that are not collated by employee (i.e., all
forms noted in point 3 above will be bundled by employee). The COR will review all security screening documents for each contractor employee for completeness, returning any incomplete security screening documents to the Contractor Security Liaison for completion. The contractor must resubmit the completed security screening documents to the COR within 7 business days or the contractor employee must be removed from the contract. No contractor employees are permitted unsupervised access to unclassified sensitive information (personally identifiable information), direct access to respondents who are minors, or Department of Education IT systems until they have resubmitted applicable screening documents. 14

5. The COR will submit the completed packages of security screening documents to the IES Security
Representative for processing. 6. The IES Security Representative reviews each package of security screening documents and electronic information submission to ensure everything required has been provided and either rejects the package, sending it back to the submitter for completion/correction or releases it to ED's Chief of Personnel Security. In the event that an application is rejected at this stage, the contractor must resubmit the corrected forms to the COR, or have the contractor employee correct the e-QIP submission, within two business days. The IES Security Representative must be notified as soon as the updated e-QIP submission is completed. 7. The contractor employee application for each individual in a moderate risk level position must be submitted to ED's Chief of Personnel Security within 14 days of the date the contractor employee starts working on the contract. Contractor employees in High Risk IT (6C) Level positions require preliminary personnel security screenings before they are given access to unclassified sensitive information or Department of Education IT systems. 8. After a package of security screening documents is transmitted to ED Chief of Personnel Security, the Office of Management security staff conducts a further review and either rejects the package of security screening documents, sending it back to the submitter for completion/correction or releases it to OPM. 9. OPM then assigns an investigator to conduct the type of investigation indicated by the department (this is tied to the level of access to PII that the applicant will have). 10. The Chief of Personnel Security will request the expansion of background investigations to obtain additional information to the extent necessary to make personnel acceptability or suitability determinations. These determinations will be made using criteria established by the OPM for the purpose of determining suitability for employment in the Federal competitive service, as described in 5 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 731.202, and other OPM guidance as applicable. The Chief of Personnel Security determines whether a contractor employee is acceptable for the position from a personnel security standpoint. 11. When the OPM investigation is complete, the RSA form with the clearance indicated is sent to ED's Office of Management for processing. 12. The Office of Management returns the RSA form to the IES Security Representative for recordation and distribution to the COR. 13. The COR transmits the RSA form with clearance indicated to the Contractor Security Liaison for their records and for distribution to the Contract Project Leader. 14. The Contract Project Leader then distributes copies of the clearance to the employee. 15. The Chief of Personnel Security will inform the IES COR when he or she determines that a contractor employee is not acceptable to render service(s) or, if appropriate, to otherwise perform under a contract. 16. Each contractor will officially notify its contractor employee if he or she will no longer work on an ED contract. 17. In the event a contractor employee is deemed unacceptable for the position from a personnel security standpoint, the Chief of Personnel Security will usually provide the contractor employee with an opportunity to refute, explain, clarify, or mitigate information in question. 15

18. If, after final determination by the Chief of Personnel Security, a decision is made that the contractor
employee is not acceptable to render services on a contract and access is denied, the COR will inform the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer must inform the contractor (i.e. employing firm) that the contractor employee is not acceptable to render services in this particular position, or, if appropriate, to otherwise perform under the contract. The contractor will notify the contractor employee. A final determination cannot be appealed. 19. At any time during the life of the contract a contractor or subcontractor employee (including any field staff) discontinues work on the contract or leaves the employment of the contractor, the contractor shall notify the COR within two days of the date that the employee is no longer working on the contract or within one business day if removed for cause. The contractor shall provide the reason why the employee is no longer working on the contract. The COR will provide this information to the IES Security Representative. 20. Each contractor is responsible for the protection of sensitive or Privacy Act-protected information from unauthorized use or misuse by its employees, subcontractors, or temporary workers, and for preventing access to others, who are not authorized and have no need to know such information. 21. The contractor shall submit monthly information to the COR indicating which employees were billed to the contract that include the e-QIP number of the person being billed. The COR will reject payments to employees without an e-QIP number. For employees with pre-existing clearances from other contracts, this shall be noted on the monthly payment form. The contractor shall verify with the COR that the security screening processes have not changed by the time the contract is active.

16

Attachment B

QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN
CLOUD HOSTING SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR THE INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION SCIENCES

Introduction This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) sets forth procedures and guidelines that the Department of Education will use to monitor performance of the Contractor under this contract. A copy of this plan will be furnished to the contractor so that the contractor shall be aware of the methods that the Government will employ in monitoring performance on this project and address any concerns that the contractor may have prior to initiating work. Purpose of the QASP The QASP is intended to accomplish the following:   Define the roles and responsibilities of participating Government officials and outside experts; and Describe the process of quality assurance surveillance.

Each of these purposes is discussed in detail below. Roles and Responsibilities of Participating Government Officials The following Government Officials will participate in assessing the quality of the contractor's performance. Their roles and responsibilities are described as follows: Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). The COR will be responsible for monitoring, assessing, recording, and reporting on the technical performance of the contractor on a day-today basis. The COR will also be responsible for inspecting all deliverables submitted under this contract and providing a recommendation regarding the acceptability of the deliverable to the Contracting Officer. It is essential that the COR establish and maintain a team-oriented line of communication with the Contractor's Project Director (PD) in order to perform monitoring functions. The COR, CO, and PD must work together as a team to ensure that required work is accomplished in an efficient and proper manner. Meetings should be held on a regular basis in order to resolve serious problems. Less serious problems should be discussed and resolved on an impromptu basis. The Contracting Officer (CO) will have overall responsibility for overseeing the contractor's performance. The Contract Specialist will be responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of the contractor's performance in the areas of compliance, administration, cost control and property control; reviewing the COR's assessment of the contractor's performance; and resolving all differences between the COR's version and the contractor's version. The CO may call upon the expertise of other Government individuals as required.

Quality Assurance Surveillance Process Even though the Government, through the COR, will be monitoring the contractor's performance on a continuing basis, the volume of tasks performed by the contractor makes technical inspections of every task and step impractical. Accordingly, the Department of Education will use a quality-assurance review process to monitor the contractor's performance under this contract through the contract deliverables, specifically through a review of the timeliness of submission and the acceptability of the content of each deliverable. The COR will inspect each deliverable and recommend acceptance of the deliverable to the Contracting Officer. In the event the COR has a concern regarding the timeliness or quality of the content of a deliverable, the contractor shall be notified as well as the Contracting Officer shall be notified. The Contractor's performance shall be documented and measured through the annual past performance evaluation through the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS). Performance will be evaluated in the areas of:      Quality of Product or Service Timeliness of Performance Cost Control Problem Resolution Business Relations

The following rating elements will be used to evaluate each area:  Exceptional. Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government's benefit. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective. Score: 4 Very Good. Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government's benefit. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective. Score: 3 Satisfactory. Performance meets contractual requirements. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory. Score: 2 Marginal. Performance does not meet some contractual requirements. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions. The contractor's proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. Score: 1 Unsatisfactory. Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains a serious problem(s) for which the contractor's corrective actions appear or were ineffective. Score: 0



 



2

Attachment C

CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE INFORMATION Contractor Name and Address (Identify Division) 1. Contract Number: 2. Type of Contract: 3. Contract Value (Current plus any unexercised options): $ (Please correct the above as needed.) 5. Description of Requirement: 6. Ratings. Summarize contractor performance and circle or type in the number below that corresponds to the performance rating for each category. Please see the attachment, which explains the rating scale. Quality: 0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4 0 1 2 3 4 Comments: 4. Period of Performance (including any option periods):

Problem Resolution:

Comments:

Cost Control:

Comments:

Timeliness:

Comments:

Business Relations:

Comments:

Customer Service:

Comments:

7. Total score:

Evaluated by: Agency/Organization_______________________________________ Date ____________

(In accordance with the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act, the following information will not be released to the contractor.) Name and Title _________________________________________ Telephone number _________________________ Signature _____________________________________________ E-mail address _______________________ Please return this form to the following address: U.S. Department of Education Contracts and Acquisitions Management PCP Room 7123 550 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20202 Or e-mail to: Jennifer.Arthur@ed.gov Or fax to: 202-245-6297 Attn: Jennifer Arthur RFP #: ED-IES-12-R-0100 (internal tracking no. iesne120014)

SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION--SEE FAR 3.104 Information entered on this form will be used in source selection decisions and is protected under subsection 3.104 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Do not disclose information entered on this form to the contractor or to any other person except as authorized by the Department of Education contracting officer.

Supplementary Questions To assist the Department of Education contracting officer, we would greatly appreciate your taking the time to answer the following questions, if any, related to the contractor's past performance: N/A

ATTACHMENT D

CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL SECURITY SCREENINGS
CLOUD HOSTING SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR THE INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION SCIENCES

This document has been prepared in accordance with Departmental Directive OM:5-101 on Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screening, in consultation with the Office of Management, Security Services, Personnel and Information Security. Contractor employee personnel will have access to U.S. Department of Education (ED) facilities and systems. Below are personnel positions and risk levels for the contract that is to be awarded for the Cloud Hosting Support and Services for IES contract. After award, the contractor will identify all individuals to be paid through this contract under each personnel position, including all contractor personnel and subcontractor personnel.

Risk Level
Personnel Position Operations Systems Manager Description of Relevant Responsibilities Contractor will oversee team of systems administrators; be working with publicly available and restricted-use data including data migrations and backups; will have admin level access to all systems and data with the potential for exceptionally serious impact. Risk Level High

Systems Administrator

Contractor will be working with publicly available and restricted-use data including data migrations and backups; will have admin level access to all systems and data with the potential for exceptionally serious impact.

High

ATTACHMENT E

BILLING INSTRUCTIONS
The Department wants all of our contractors to understand how the Department processes invoices The basic rule is this, The Department will pay invoices within 30 days of receipt of a proper invoice, yet close to the 30th day. There are two key terms that determine when the 30 day clock starts--receipt and proper invoice. Receipt occurs on the latter of: 1) Invoices are transmitted electronically through email (OCFOCAMInvoicing@ed.gov), we look for the date a readable transmission is received by our office, or if it is received after normal working hours we will use the next business day. 2) The seventh day after the date on which the property is actually delivered or the performance of services is actually completed. This date may not be accurate if the contract calls for a longer acceptance period or if we actually accept goods or services before the seventh day. (5 CFR § 1315.4) 3) On the date of delivery, if specified in the contract. 4) On the date placed on the invoice by the contractor, if we fail to annotate the date of receipt in our office. Second, what makes an invoice a proper invoice? An invoice is deemed proper through the following process. We receive your invoice, and then we review it for the following information, if the information is complete then we pay it: 1) Name of vendor 2) Invoice date 3) Government contract number (10 digits) 4) Vendor invoice number, account number, or other number identified in the contract 5) Description (including, for example, contract line/subline number), price, and quantity of goods or services rendered. 6) Shipping and payment terms (unless mutually agreed that this information is only required in the contract) 7) TIN (unless mutually agreed that this information is only required in the contract) 8) Banking information for payment by EFT (unless mutually agreed that this information is only required in the contract) 9) Contact name (where practicable), title and telephone number 10) Other substantiating documentation or information required by the contract. This documentation should include information regarding where the requested funds were spent. We need to see detailed labor hours per task, travel expenses (where travelers went, transportation costs, etc.), supplies purchased, etc. If we determine that your invoice is not proper, we will return it to you and identify all defects that prevent payment. You should correct the invoice and return it to us for payment. 5 CFR § 1315.9 It is the goal of the Department to pay small business invoices within 15 calendar days from the date in which the invoice was received.
NOTE--There is a difference between an invoice and a voucher. Since the FAR refers to "prope r invoices" when applying the Prompt Payment Act, we will use the term invoice also. This does not mean that vouchers are not covered in the same manner.

ED-IES-12-R-0100 Cloud Hosting and Support Services for the Institute of Education Sciences Solicitation Text 1. Type of Document: Combined Synopsis/Solicitation

2. Provide a Classification Code: D

3. Provide a NAICS Code: 518210

4. Title: Combined Synopsis/Solicitation Cloud Hosting Services and Support for the Institute of Education Sciences

5. Response Date: August 20, 2012 at 12:30 PM EST 6. Point(s) of Contact: Jennifer Arthur, Contract Specialist, e-mail: Jennifer.Arthur@ed.gov, phone: 202-245-7448; Deila Johnson, Contracting Officer, e-mail: Deila.Johnson@ed.gov, phone : 202-245-6183. Copy Deila Johnson on all email correspondence. 7. Solicitation or Reference Number: ED-IES-12-R-0100 8. Set-Aside Status: Total Small Business Set Aside 9. Description: The US Department of Education (ED) intends to award a firm-fixed-price Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract to a single, successful offeror in FY2012. (No multiple IDIQ awards will be made.) It is anticipated that the resulting contract will be divided into the following tasks at the time of award:     Task 1 ­ Server Operations Support Task 2 ­ IaaS Solution Task 3 ­ System Licenses (Task Order Requirement) Task 4 ­ Technical Writing (Task Order Requirement)

Work under Task 3--System Licenses and Task 4--Technical Writing will be issued as firmfixed price task orders, as the need arises. The successful offeror shall not perform the following tasks unless ED issues a task order. 4

There will be a minimum of at least one task order for Task 3 and Task 4, but no more than 15 task orders and 5 task orders for Task 3 and Task 4 per year, respectively. This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and written solicitation will not be issued. The Department intends to solicit and negotiate a firm-fixed-price IDIQ procurement in accordance with FAR Part 12. This requirement is 100% set-aside for small business, under authority of FAR Part 52.219-6. The Small Business Size Standard for the NAICS code 518210 is $25 million. This is a Request for Proposal (RFP). Offerors must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration database prior to submission of an offer to be considered for award of any Department of Education contract; go to https://bpn.gov/ccr/default.aspx to register. Contract Clauses...................................................................................... 52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (February 1998)................................. 52.212-4 -- Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (February 2012), by reference 52.212-5 -- Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items (May 2012)............................................................. 52.216-18 ­ Ordering (Oct 1995............................................................. 52.216-19 ­ Order Limitations (Oct 1995) ............................................................. 52.216-22 ­ Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995)............................................................. 52.217-8 ­ Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)....................................................... 52.217-9--Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Nov 1999) .....................................
52.249-4--Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short Form) (Apr 1984) ................. ..................................... 52.249-8--Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service................. .....................................

3452.201-70 Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) (May 2011).......................... 3452.202-1 Definitions ­ Department of Education (May 2011) by reference................... 3452.208-72 Printing (May 2011) by reference..................................................... 3452.209-71 Conflict of Interest (May 2011) by reference......................................... 3452.224-70 Release of information under the Freedom of Information Act (May 2011) by reference................................................................................................. 3452.227-70 Publication and Publicity (May 2011) by reference................................ 3452.227-71 Advertising of Awards (May 2011) by reference................................... 5

3452.227-72 Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement (May 2011) by reference..................... 3452.227-73 Limitations on the use or disclosure of Government-furnished information marked with restrictive legends (May 2011) by reference ................................................ 3452.237-71 Observance of Administrative Closures (May 2011) by reference................. 3452.242-71 Notice to the Government of Delays (May 2011) by reference................... 3452.242-73 Accessibility of Meetings, Conferences, and Seminars to Persons with Disabilities (May 2011) by reference ................................................................................ 306-1a Invoice and Contract Financing Requests Submission (Alternate I) (January 2007).................................................................................................... 31.205.70 - Food Costs........................................................................................
31.205.71 - Travel Costs........................................................................................

Task Order Procedures........................................................................................ Solicitation Provisions............................................................................... 52.209-7 -- Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feburary 2012)................... 52.212-1 -- Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (February 2012), by reference (see SF 1449, Block 27a)................................................................................................ 52.212-2 -- Evaluation -- Commercial Items (January 1999)..................................... 52.212-3--Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items (February 2012) 3452.209-70--Conflict of Interest Certification (May 2011)...................................... Contract Clauses 52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (February 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: https://www.acquisition.gov/Far/ or http://www.ed.gov/policy/fund/reg/clibrary/edar.html. (End of Clause) 52.212-4 -- Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (February 2012), by reference (see SF 1449 block 27a) 52.212-5--Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Commercial Items (May 2012)

6

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). _X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) _X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X_ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). __ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). 7

__ (11) [Reserved] _X_ (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). __ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). __ (13)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X_ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). __ (15)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. _X_ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). _X_ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). __ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). _X_ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X_ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). 8

_X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X_ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­ Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) _X_ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) (E.O. 13513). __ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, and 112-42). __ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (MAY 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

9

__ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). _X_ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. 10

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

11

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.2266. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause) 52.216-18 ­ Ordering (Oct 1995)

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from TBD through TBD. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of Clause) 52.216-19 -- Order Limitations (Oct 1995) (a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than one system license under Task 3---System Licenses and one technical writing project under Task 4--- Technical Writing per year, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor -(1) Any order for a single item in excess of 15 system licenses under Task 3--System Licenses and five technical writing projects under Task 4--Technical Writing per year; 12

(2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of 15 system licenses under Task 3-- System Licenses and five technical writing projects under Task 4--Technical Writing per year; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within TDB days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.21621 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within TBD days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of Clause) 52.216-22 -- Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995) (Reference 52.216-22) 52.217-8 -- Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) (Reference 52.217-8) 52.217-9 -- Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months or 5 years. Period of Performance [To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award] 13 Amount [To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award]

Base Period Option Period I Option Period II

Option Period III Option Period IV

[To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award]

[To be filled in at award] [To be filled in at award]

(End of Clause) 52.249-4 -- Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short Form) (Apr 1984) (Reference 52.249-4)

52.249-8 -- Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Reference 52.249-8)

3452.201-70--Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) (May 2011) (a) The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) is responsible for the technical aspects of the project, technical liaison with the contractor, and any other responsibilities that are specified in the contract. These responsibilities include inspecting all deliverables, including reports, and recommending acceptance or rejection to the contracting officer. (b) The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes that affect the contract price, terms, or conditions. Any contractor requests for changes shall be submitted in writing directly to the contracting officer or through the COR. No such changes shall be made without the written authorization of the contracting officer. (c) The COR's name and contact information: to be completed at time of award (d) The COR may be changed by the Government at any time, but notification of the change, including the name and address of the successor COR, will be provided to the contractor by the contracting officer in writing. (End of Clause) 3452.202-1--Definitions ­ Department of Education (May 2011) by reference 3452.208-72--Printing (May 2011) by reference 3452.209-71--Conflict of Interest (May 2011) by reference 3452.224-70--Release of information under the Freedom of Information Act (May 2011) by reference 3452.227-70 ­ Publication and Publicity (May 2011) by reference 14

3452.227-71--Advertising of Awards (May 2011) by reference 3452.227-72--Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement (May 2011) by reference 3452.237-71--Observance of Administrative Closures (May 2011) by reference 3452.242-71--Notice to the Government of Delays (May 2011) by reference 3452.242-73--Accessibility of Meetings, Conferences, and Seminars to Persons with Disabilities (May 2011) by reference 306-1a Invoice and Contract Financing Requests Submission (Alternate I) (January 2007) (A) Payments shall be rendered in accordance with the payments clause(s) of the incorporated contract clause section and with those otherwise specified rated or fixed price amounts. (B) The contractor shall submit invoices electronically as an attachment to a message to OCFOCAMINVOICING@ED.GOV. The subject area of the message shall contain the invoice number, contract number, and contract specialist's name. The electronic copy of the invoice shall be in a format that is supported by Microsoft Office (Microsoft Word or Excel), or Adobe Acrobat (.pdf). The contractor must include the COR, CS, and CO on the carbon copy line of the email. Task Order Procedures This clause shall be applicable to all task orders issued under this contract. It is the Government's intent to issue task orders for every task order request. In addition: (a) Only a Contracting Officer (CO) has the authority to issue a task order under this contract; (b) This contract is for the use of the U. S. Department of Education (ED); (c) All task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of the contract. In the event of a conflict between a task order and the contract, the contract shall take precedence; In competitive situations, the Government reserves the right to award a task order without discussions. (d) No work shall be performed and no payment will be made except as authorized by a task order; (e) The Government intends to use email to the maximum extent practicable for task orders. Each request for a task order will be sent electronically to the Contractor at the email address specified in their proposal Cover Sheet. (f) An abstract of each task order will be issued to the Contractor. (g) Task orders will be issued by the CO in accordance with the procedures specified in this clause; (h) The contractor will be provided with a Statement of Work (SOW), Schedule of Deliverables, and other additional instructions as needed for each individual task order to be issued under this contract. These documents, collectively referred to as a RFTO, will designate the tasks as Fixed Price (FP). 15

(i) Each finalized task order will be signed by the CO as a single party instrument, not requiring the Contractor's signature. The Contractor's acceptance of each task order shall be presumed by its commencement of work called for therein. The Contractor is cautioned to observe the following instructions: (1) If the Contractor finds any task order unacceptable for any reason, it shall contact the CO within 24 hours after receipt of such task order and not begin the work required therein until the problem has been resolved; (2) The Contractor shall not accept any task order that exceeds the "Not-to-Exceed" amount of the contract, or which requires performance beyond the contract completion date, unless approved by the CO; (3) If at any time during the performance of a Firm Fixed Price task order, the Contractor has reason to believe that the total price to the Government to complete the task order will be greater than the authorized amount, the Contractor shall notify the CO. At that time, the Contractor shall provide a revised estimate of the total price for performing the task, supporting reasons, and documentation. (j) In accordance with the incorporated clause 52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity, the contract will be modified to extend the period of performance solely to allow completion of the task order if the task order was issued within the dates for issuing task orders. An extension of period of performance will not extend the date for issuing orders shown in the incorporated clause 52.21618 Ordering. (k) Each finalized task order will contain the following: 1. Project title; 2. Date of award; 3. Contract number; 4. Task order number; 5. Type of task order: (l) Firm Fixed Price task orders shall include the total firm fixed price, schedule of deliverables, and a corresponding payment schedule. The Government shall pay the Contractor, upon submission of proper invoices, the prices stipulated in the task orders for work delivered or rendered and accepted. Unless otherwise specified, payment shall be made upon acceptance of any portion of the work delivered or rendered for which a price is separately stated in the task order. 6. Period of performance; 7. Name and address of COR; 8. Name and address of CS; 9. Name and address of Contract Administrator; 10. Name and address of designated billing office; 11. Dollar amount of task order; 12. Shipment and marking of deliverables; 13. Invoice and contract financing requests submission; 14. Key personnel designation 15. The PWS for the task order (the Contractor's proposal for the task order shall be incorporated by reference).

16

Attachments ATTACHMENT A: STATEMENT OF WORK ATTACHMENT B: QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN ATTACHMENT C: PAST PERFORMANCE FORM ATTACHMENT D: SECURITY RISK LEVELS ATTACHMENT E: BILLING INSTRUCTIONS

17

Solicitation Provisions 52.209-7-- Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (February 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinitedelivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). "Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). 18

(End of provision)

52.212-1 -- Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (February 2012) Addendum to 52.212-1 ­ Proposal Instructions I. General Instructions

The US Department of Education (ED) intends to award a firm-fixed-price Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract to a single, successful offeror. (No multiple IDIQ awards will be made.) It is anticipated that the resulting contract will be divided into the following tasks at the time of award:     Task 1 ­ Server Operations Support Task 2 ­IaaS Solution Task 3 ­ System Licenses (Task Order Requirement) Task 4 ­ Technical Writing (Task Order Requirement)

Work under Task 3--System Licenses and Task 4--Technical Writing will be issued as firmfixed priced task orders, as the need arises. The contractor shall not perform the following tasks unless ED issues a task order. There will be a minimum of at least one task order for Task 3 and Task 4, but no more than 15 task orders and 5 task orders for Task 3 and Task 4 per year, respectively. Offerors should prepare separate technical and business proposals for the project. Each proposal should be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the other. Cost information should be restricted to the business proposal and the technical proposal must not contain reference to specific costs (although resource information may be included so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of the work may be evaluated). Past performance information should be included in the technical proposal. An official authorized to bind your organization must sign the proposals. You must submit the technical proposal electronically in WORD AND PDF format and the business proposal as an EXCEL WORKBOOK AND PDF to Jennifer.Arthur@ed.gov. In addition, you must submit one original and 5 hard copies of your technical proposal and one original and 5 hard copies of your business proposal. The proposals should not be bound and offerors are encouraged to submit proposals in ring binders. Offerors are also encouraged to produce double-sided copies in order to conserve paper and to use recycled paper with a high post-consumer waste content. Proposals are due by 12:30 PM, ET on August 20, 2012, and shall be delivered to: U.S. Department of Education 19

Office of the Chief Financial Officer Contracts and Acquisitions Management 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, LBJ Building, Room BC102 Washington, D.C. 20202-4230 Attn: Jennifer Arthur, Contract Specialist IMPORTANT NOTE: All offerors should be aware that packages sent to the U.S Department of Education through FEDEX, UPS, U.S. Postal Service, or hand-carried will no longer be accepted by the point of contact in the Contracts and Acquisitions Management office (i.e., Jennifer Arthur, Contract Specialist). All packages must go through the Department's Mail Room located at 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, LBJ Building, Room BC102, Washington, D.C. 20202-4230 (see complete address above). Contact information: Mail Room Phone number: (202) 401-0969 Hours: 7:00 am to 5:00 pm ET In addition, the Department (ED) recommends that the delivery person provide and/or obtain a receipt for your proposal that gives the date and time the proposal enters the Federal facility and acceptance of the proposals. Hand-carried proposals must be delivered by entering through the building and stopping at the Guard's Desk. Offerors should indicate for which solicitation they are submitting a proposal and should have proper identification. Offerors should consider this delay in meeting the time specified for proposal receipt. The proposal shall list the names and telephone numbers of persons authorized to conduct negotiations, and a statement to the effect that your offer is firm for a period of at least 60 calendar days from the date of receipt specified by the Government. ED will accept clarification questions until August 6, 2012. All clarification questions must be submitted by 1:00 PM EST. After this date ED does not guarantee that a response will be provided. All clarification questions will be answered at the same time once the due date has passed and all questions have been received. All questions and answers will be provided to all offerors. Oral explanations or instructions given by the Government before the award of the contract(s) shall not be binding. Any information given to a prospective offeror concerning a solicitation will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors if that information is necessary in submitting offers or if a lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offerors. This information will be sent to all offerors. 20

II.

Technical Proposal

Through the technical proposal, the offeror must show a thorough understanding of the goals and activities of the Statement of Work (SOW). The technical proposals must include a detailed work plan that describes the offeror's plans to accomplish each task and the relevant deliverables. A proposal that simply repeats the language of the SOW without specifying the offeror's plan will not be considered eligible for award. Proposals should be precise and concise. Offerors are encouraged to suggest improvements to the approaches detailed in the SOW, along with a justification of the merits of these alternative approaches. Offerors may find it necessary to make adjustments to the schedule provided in the SOW, in accordance with the newly proposed strategies and/or procedures. In this case, offerors shall clearly identify any changes in the schedule and explain their rationale. Technical Proposals must not exceed 25 sheets of paper, double-sided. The page limit does not apply to the appendix with resumes of key project staff, past performance information, the appendix with subcontracting agreements (if any), conflict of interest plan, or the business proposal. Resumes must not exceed 5 pages each. Proposals should be 1.5 spaced with a 12point font size and margins of at least 1 inch. Proposals must include, but are not limited to, each of the following sections:  Cover Sheet The cover sheet shall include name and address of the firm and signed by an officer of the firm.  Introduction/Overview The introduction/overview section shall demonstrate knowledge of: (a) supporting federal websites and (b) managing physical and virtual server hosting environments. In addition to demonstrating expertise, the introduction shall also briefly describe the proposal and provide rationale for why the proposed approach will meet the intent and requirements of the contract.  Technical Approach The technical approach section shall completely and concisely explain the strategies, operations, and procedures the offerors propose to achieve the contract's objectives, addressing each task. The offeror shall include a proposed timeline addressing the tasks and deliverables, with a summary table presenting critical milestones with dates (starting and ending dates of each major project task and activity).

21



Organizational Chart An organizational chart shall be included with an accompanying description of functional responsibilities, lines of communication and authority for project management, including any sub-contractual arrangements.



Personnel The personnel section shall include the names of the proposed contractor staff, as well as a narrative description of staff qualifications as they relate to the requirements of the Statement of Work (SOW). The contractor shall provide detailed documentation demonstrating proposed staff expertise and past experience in the following areas: a. Managing systems in a data center owned by a U.S. Federal Agency. 1. Physical maintenance and security of server hardware and network infrastructure. 2. Developing and implementing data retention and disaster recovery plans and solutions. b. Supporting systems that host websites and web based applications for a federal statistical agency. 1. Microsoft IIS, including application configuration, migration, and security. 2. Microsoft SQL Server databases, backups, restores, index creation and maintenance, data migration, management of large databases, and security. 3. Microsoft Active Directory, including creating user, groups, policies, and configuring Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS). 4. Security and patch management using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). 5. F5 Big-IP network load balancers, including creating rules, virtual servers, and installing SSL certificates. c. Addressing data privacy, sensitivity, and integrity concerns of federal statistical agencies 1. Handling of sensitive data, including system security and storage. 2. Limiting access to systems with sensitive data through network, system, and user policies.

22

d. Implementing best practices and procedures in compliance with U.S. Federal Government IT mandates and regulations. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 Appendix III Homeland Security Presidential Directives (HSPD) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidance 6. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. '794 d) e. Managing servers in a virtualized environment. 1. Migrating physical servers to virtual servers. 2. Managing virtual storage and networking.

Offerors should include resumes for proposed staff members in the appendix of the technical proposal. The resumes should include educational and professional background and should highlight experience relevant to the contract. The contractor will determine the labor categories and staffing levels appropriate for completing the goals of the project. The effort required of this contract is equivalent to three (3) FTE contractor staff. Proposed staff should not be committed to other projects or contracts during the period of this contract. The offeror must comply with Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.222-54 and verify the employment eligibility of all staff assigned to work under the resultant contract.  Catalog of IaaS Services The contractor shall provide a detailed catalog of services and features for their proposed IaaS solution, including technical details and cost per unit. These services shall include, but not limited to, virtual servers of various memory and CPU configurations running various operating systems and database systems (hourly and yearly cost), virtual storage (cost per GB and per million I/O requests), and network usage (cost per request and per GB transferred). Include any volume discounts if applicable. Proposed IaaS services shall meet all technical requirements stated in the SOW.  Example for Price Comparison For the purpose of comparison, the contractor shall provide a cost estimate of the following example cloud hosted configuration: 23

a. Virtual Servers Please provide the total yearly cost of operating for 24 hours a day the following virtual servers and server configurations. Processors Windows Server 2008 2 cores, ~2.5 GHz 2 cores, ~2 GHz 2 cores, ~3.25 GHz 4 cores, ~2 GHz 8 cores, ~2.5 GHz 4 cores, ~3.25 GHz 1.7 GB 7.5 GB 17.1 GB 15 GB 7 GB 34.2 GB 2 13 7 4 7 3 Memory Quantity

Windows Server 2008 with SQL Server 2008 2 cores, ~2 GHz 8 cores, ~2.5 GHz 4 cores, ~3.25 GHz 8 cores, ~3.25 GHz b. Storage Please provide the total yearly cost for 25 terabyte (TB) of total storage used a month. c. Network Please provide the total yearly cost for 25 TB of total data transferred a month. III. Past Performance 7.5 GB 7 GB 34.2 GB 68.4 GB 6 3 1 6

Past performance information is sought in two parts. First, offerors shall submit information about three contracts, completed in the last three years or currently in process but beyond the first year of the contract, which are of similar size, scope, complexity or, in any way, are relevant to the effort required by this solicitation. The three contracts may include those entered into with the Federal Government, agencies of State and local governments and commercial customers. Contracts with the parent or an affiliate of the offeror may not be used. The page limit of 25 sheets of paper, double-sided does not apply to past performance information section.

24

Second, the offeror must send the "Contractor Performance Information" form (Attachment B) to current or previous clients. Each current or previous client that agrees to be a reference for the offeror must complete the form and return it to the Contract Specialist, Jennifer Arthur, as prescribed on the form. Completed forms from references are due on the same day as Technical & Business Proposals under this solicitation. Completed "Contractor Performance Information" forms will not be accepted from references who are employed with a parent or an affiliate of the offeror. The Government reserves the right to contact past performance references to verify the information provided. The Government also reserves the right to obtain past performance information from other sources. IV. Business Proposal

ED anticipates awarding a fixed price contract through a small business set aside competition. The offeror shall submit proposed prices for each task, including the task order requirements, based on the proposed price for the relevant deliverables. The offeror shall also include proposed prices for the project overall. Please note that the Government must make a determination that the price is fair and reasonable; therefore, please provide your complete price buildup to explain how you arrived at your total price per task. Price buildup should take into account yearly escalation rates. In addition, the resultant contract will include FAR clause 52.217-8 if the successful offeror will need additional time to perform services beyond the life of the contract (i.e., beyond the 12month base period and four one-year options). As such, offerors must price out their services starting at the 12-month base period and ending at the six month extension beyond base and option periods. The Contracting Officer reserves the right to authorize any extension of up to 6 months beyond the life of the contract. The Government estimates that the overall level of effort required to undertake the tasks described in this Statement of Work is approximately one base year and four option periods (with one person equaling one Full-time Equivalent or 2,080 hours.) This information is provided for offeror's information only and is not considered restrictive for proposal purposes. The page limit of 25 sheets of paper, double-sided does not apply to the business proposal section. V. Conflict of Interest Plan

The offeror shall submit a Conflict of Interest Plan, providing details on its policies and procedures to identify and avoid potential organizational or personal conflicts of interest (or 25

apparent conflicts of interest). The Plan should also address procedures taken to neutralize or mitigate such conflicts, if they have not been or cannot be avoided. The Plan should indicate that such policies and procedures are operative throughout the period of performance of the contract. The policies should address, at a minimum, gifts, outside activities, financial interests, or other significant connections or identifications that would establish, or give the appearance of establishing, a conflict of interest. A method for periodically reviewing financial interests of employees, subcontractors and consultants, and their immediate families, in order to assess actual or apparent conflicts of interest, should be included in the plan. In this clause, the term "potential conflict" means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. The thoroughness, completeness and effectiveness of the Plan shall be evaluated as part of the offeror's overall quote. The Plan will be incorporated into the contract awarded to the successful offeror. Offerors and all proposed subcontractors/consultants shall complete the Conflict of Interest Certification from EDAR 3452.209-70, provided in the clause section, and include in their business proposal. The page limit of 25 sheets of paper, double-sided does not apply to the Conflict of Interest Plan. The Conflict of Interest Plan may be presented in the offeror's business proposal. (End of Addendum) 52.212-2 -- Evaluation -- Commercial Items (January 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. Although price is an important factor, technical merit is significantly more important than price. As technical merit becomes more equal, price will become a more significant factor. The Contracting Officer will determine whether any difference in technical merit is worth the difference in price. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: 1. Technical Qualifications and Experience of the Proposed Staff ­ 40 points  Demonstrates experience, technical training and other qualifications that are appropriate for the task assignments; experience in fields related to the task assignments.  Demonstrates experience supporting websites and database driven web applications; web application and database migrations, problem solving, data backups, and security and patch management; managing physical and virtual servers; virtual server migrations; Windows Server OS; Internet Information Services (IIS); .NET; Microsoft SQL Server; Active Directory and RADIUS services; network load balancers; implementing federal IT regulations.  Demonstrates experience handling federal data systems and sensitive statistical data. 2. Quality and Soundness of the Technical Proposal--35 points  Demonstrates clear understanding of the purpose and context of potential activities and task orders, the major issues and objectives of the contract, and 26





how they related to each task. Demonstrates a clear understanding of the requirements of the IaaS solution as detailed in the statement of work, including web based management interface and application programming interface (API) for managing services, scalable services, network load balancing, and hosting facilities in multiple geographical locations within the continental United States; includes a wide range of services and options for virtual servers, virtual storage, and network connectivity; demonstrates a clear understanding of security requirements and privacy concerns; Quality of the activities proposed to accomplish each task, including the clarity, feasibility, creativity, and soundness of plans for implementing out each task and the identification of any anticipated problems and recommended solutions.

3. Past Performance--15 points  Evidence of prior successful work in conducting projects of similar nature. Consideration of the offeror's reputation in terms of quality, problem resolution, cost control, timeliness, business relations and customer service will be evaluated. 4. Quality of the Management Plan--5 points  Demonstration that the project management and staffing plan will result in timely and quality products delivered within budget, including clear lines of responsibility, corporate oversight, budget accountability and reporting, and relations with subcontractors.  Appropriate matching of staff skills to task requirements. 5. Corporate Capability and Related Experience--5 points  Evidence of the feasibility of producing high quality work products in a timely manner; evidence of prior successful experience in website support, technical writing, database development. TOTAL: 100 POINTS Basis for award: For this requirement, the results of the technical evaluation shall outweigh the results of the price evaluation. As the technical evaluations become more equal, the price shall become a more significant factor. However, to be considered for an award, an offer must be fairly and reasonably priced. The Contracting officer shall determine whether any difference in technical evaluation is worth the difference in price. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). 27

(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of Provision) 52.212-3-- Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items (February 2012) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 10009999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 28

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or 29

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern.

30

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of 31

manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- 32

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the 33

clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

34

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and 35

(4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or 36

indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) o Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ X ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and

37

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local); o Foreign government; o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and 38

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision)

3452.209-70--Conflict of Interest Certification (May 2011) (a) (1) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, by signing the form in this clause, certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances that could give rise to an organizational or personal conflict of interest, (see FAR Subpart 9.5 for organizational conflicts of interest) (or apparent conflict of interest), for the organization or any of its staff, and that the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has disclosed all such relevant information if such a conflict of interest appears to exist to a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts (or if such a person would question the impartiality of the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant). Conflicts may arise in the following situations: (i) Unequal access to information. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has access to nonpublic information through its performance on a government contract. (ii) Biased ground rules. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has worked, in one government contract, or program, on the basic structure or ground rules of another government contract. (iii) Impaired objectivity. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, or member of their immediate family (spouse, parent, or child) has financial or other interests that would impair, or give the appearance of impairing, impartial judgment in the evaluation of government programs, in offering advice or recommendations to the government, or in providing technical assistance or other services to recipients of Federal funds as part of its contractual responsibility. ``Impaired objectivity'' includes but is not limited to the following

39

situations that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question a person's objectivity: (A) Financial interests or reasonably foreseeable financial interests in or in connection with products, property, or services that may be purchased by an educational agency, a person, organization, or institution in the course of implementing any program administered by the Department; (B) Significant connections to teaching methodologies or approaches that might require or encourage the use of specific products, property, or services; or (C) Significant identification with pedagogical or philosophical viewpoints that might require or encourage the use of a specific curriculum, specific products, property, or services. (2) Offerors must provide the disclosure described above on any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) regardless of their opinion that such a conflict or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) would not impair their objectivity. (3) In a case in which an actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) is disclosed, the Department will take appropriate actions to eliminate or address the actual or potential conflict, including but not limited to mitigating or neutralizing the conflict, when appropriate, through such means as ensuring a balance of views, disclosure with the appropriate disclaimers, or by restricting or modifying the work to be performed to avoid or reduce the conflict. In this clause, the term ``potential conflict'' means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. (b) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees that if ``impaired objectivity'', or an actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) is discovered after the award is made, it will make a full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions that the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest). (c) Remedies. The Government may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. If the contractor was aware of a potential conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the contracting officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. These remedies include imprisonment for up to five years for violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 and fines of up to $5000 for violation of 31 U.S.C. 3802. Further remedies include suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal government. The contractor may also be required to reimburse the Department for costs the Department incurs arising from activities related to conflicts of interest. An example of such costs would be those incurred in processing Freedom of Information Act requests related to a conflict of interest. (d) In cases where remedies short of termination have been applied, the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees to eliminate the organizational conflict of interest, or mitigate it to the satisfaction of the contracting officer. (e) The contractor further agrees to insert in any subcontract or consultant agreement hereunder, provisions that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including specific mention of potential remedies and this paragraph (e). 40

(f) Conflict of Interest Certification. The offeror, [insert name of offeror], hereby certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no present or currently planned interests (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) relating to the work to be performed under the contract or task order resulting from Request for Quote No. [insert number] that would create any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflicts of interest) (including conflicts of interest for immediate family members: spouses, parents, children) that would impinge on its ability to render impartial, technically sound, and objective assistance or advice or result in it being given an unfair competitive advantage. In this clause, the term ``potential conflict'' means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. The offeror further certifies that it has and will continue to exercise due diligence in identifying and removing or mitigating, to the Government's satisfaction, such conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest). Offeror's Name______________________ RFP/Contract No.____________________ Signature___________________________ Title_______________________________ Date_______________________________ (End of Provision)

41

