

                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK




Section C - Description/Specification/Work Statement



1.  BACKGROUND

The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Computer Security Incident Response Center (CSIRC) is responsible for the security of all
networking devices resident on the HHS network.   As part of the Department’s Continuous Monitoring activities as mandated by NIST SP 800-137,
there is a need to add additional threat and vulnerability reporting capabilities to the CSIRC to remain in compliance with this mandate.

The CSIRC currently has Agiliance Risk Vision installed in their environment and the enhancement of that existing installation is the most
expedient and cost effective path identified by the Department to achieve the required reporting mandates.


2. PURPOSE

The DHHS CSIRC is responsible for the security of all networking devices resident on the DHHS network.   In 2009, the DHHS purchased Agiliance
Risk Vision as a framework for providing a security “dashboard” to provide the Department the capability of understanding their overall risk
posture.  The initial purchase of Agiliance Risk Vision supported security trouble ticketing and since has been enhanced to include other
capabilities.

The Contractor will be responsible to develop and test the Incident Manager Web Services API to import flat file event data which includes all
necessary fields that HHS will make available to RiskVision.  Event data will be made available as one file per malware event or as one file
that contain all malware events.  The malware event text file will have a well defined structure and data fields in an XML, CSV or other
structured data format so that no additional data transformation is required. Also, the malware event data will be mapped to available or new
customer incident attributes. The event data is to be placed in a drop zone which has the required connectivity to the RiskVision server. Alert
processing will occur as each event is placed on the server or on a regularly-scheduled basis.

The Contractor will be responsible for the new web services Symantec Endpoint Manager (SEPM) connector which will pull event data from exported
flat files dropped into a designated directory path and create new RiskVision incidents and tickets from the individual event detail. A ticket
will be created by default – unless other criteria are specified.

The RiskVision Web Services code will check for pre-existing tickets for a given machine to prevent duplicate incident-ticket pairs from being
created for a given instance of malware in case it is reported twice.

The import process will automatically create an incident review workflow based on the incident type and send out a notification for review.  The
incident workflow will be initiated based on the selected type attribute once the incident is received and tied to one or more incident
attributes.

Based on the completion of an SEPM/Malware event incident workflow, the workflow completion action will automatically close the linked ticket to
address the use case of closing both the incident and ticket at the same time.

During incident and ticket creation, as well as incident and ticket closure, certain comment fields will be auto-populated by the new code, with
comments specified by HHS from existing source content such as the event data file.

The logic to link the incident and incident response ticket will be creating using the RiskVision Ticketing API’s calls to create, get and
update will be used for the ticket creation and tracking logic.

A design document deliverable will be provided before initiating the solution development process based on the sample event data.






































































3. SCOPE OF WORK

The Contractor shall deliver the Agiliance enhancements described in this document to the CSIRC program.  The Contractor will be responsible for
delivery and installation of the software as well as initial training on the new capabilities.  The Contractor will also be responsible for
overall project and program management to ensure that the solution provided will achieve the objective, and deliver what we have requested, on
time, and within budget.  The system is proprietaty to Agiliance; therefore, the vendor shall be an Agiliance authorized partner.


3.1 Contractor Project Management

The Prime Contractor’s role in the partnership is to ensure that the solution we provide to achieve the objective delivers what we have
promised, on time, and within budget.  The Contractor shall provide disciplined program management as one of the keys to a successful engagement
and shall have developed a Program and Project Management Methodology based upon respected industry quality programs such as the Software
Engineering Institute (SEI) Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) and the Project Management Institute’s (PMI) Project Management Body of
Knowledge (PMBOK).  The Contractor shall apply these methodologies to the Customer’s Program.

The Contractor’s Project Managers shall be PMI-certified Project Management Professionals (PMP), have extensive experience working with Federal
Government customers, and are fully trained in Contractor’s Program and Project Management Methodology.  Immediately upon contract award, the
Contractor shall assign a Project Manager to provide contract level program management and to be the single point-of-contact for the CO, COTR,
and Government Program Manager throughout the period of performance.

The Contractor Project Manager shall work closely in the implementation of the Agiliance Threat and Vulnerability Management offering to ensure
the success of this engagement and full satisfaction of the DHHS CSIRC.


3.2 Proposed Professional Services


This project will be implemented within the Incident Manager application of HHS existing RiskVision environment and leveraging the deployed
functionality.


The Project will include the following deliverables:


      • Solution Design Document – this document will describe in detail the relevant customizations as identified during the Requirements
        Gathering portion of the project.
      • Implementation of the Web Services API to import the malware event files
      • Implementation of the Incident and sub-ticket creation workflow initiation
      • Implementation of the single close action for both Incident and sub-ticket.
      • Testing and Acceptance Support
      • Production Handover Document
      • Administrator and End User Documentation and Training


4. Special Consideration

4.1   Government Property
The Government will provide access to and assist with appropriate databases and directories, to include passwords and account names as required
for subcontractor personnel to perform the required tasks. The Government will provide access to electronic mail for all Contractor personnel on
an as required basis. The Government will provide access to the Internet as required/necessary to complete the assigned tasks.

2. Place of Performance
Work shall be performed at Government facilities with travel to Atlanta GA

4.3   Travel
All travel shall be conducted in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR) on a cost reimbursable basis. Travel costs shall be non-fee
bearing, with only applicable indirect costs being allowable.



-----------------------
                                                       Parse Malware Event from flat file.

                                                        Reconcile Incident by Type & Title

                                                                 Incident Exists?

                                                                 Create Incident

                                                         Reconcile Ticket by Ticket Name

                                                                  Ticket Exists?

                                                                  Create Ticket

No

Yes

Yes

No



352.239-70  Standard for Security Configurations.

    As prescribed in [HHSAR] 339.101(d)(1), the Contracting Officer shall
insert the following clause:

Standard for Security Configurations (October 2009)

    (a) The Contractor shall configure its computers that contain
HHS data with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration
(FDCC) (see http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm) and ensure that its
computers have and maintain the latest operating system patch level
and anti-virus software level.

    Note: FDCC is applicable to all computing systems using Windows
XPTM and Windows VistaTM, including desktops
and laptops--regardless of function--but not including servers.

    (b) The Contractor shall apply approved security configurations
to information technology (IT) that is used to process information
on behalf of HHS. The following security configuration requirements
apply:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Note: The Contracting Officer shall specify applicable security
configuration requirements in solicitations and contracts based on
information provided by the Project Officer, who shall consult with
the OPDIV/STAFFDIV Chief Information Security Officer.

    (c) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications operated on
behalf of HHS are fully functional and operate correctly on systems
configured in accordance with the above configuration requirements.
The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol
(SCAP)-validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to ensure its
products operate correctly with FDCC configurations and do not alter
FDCC settings--see http://nvd.nist.gov/validation.cfm. The
Contractor shall test applicable product versions with all relevant
and current updates and patches installed. The Contractor shall
ensure currently supported versions of information technology
products meet the latest FDCC major version and subsequent major
versions.

    (d) The Contractor shall ensure IT applications designed for end
users run in the standard user context without requiring elevated
administrative privileges.

    (e) The Contractor shall ensure hardware and software
installation, operation, maintenance, update, and patching will not
alter the configuration settings or requirements specified above.

    (f) The Contractor shall (1) include Federal Information
Processing Standard (FIPS) 201-compliant (see http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips201-1/FIPS-201-1-chng1.pdf), Homeland Security
Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) card readers with the purchase
of servers, desktops, and laptops; and (2) comply with FAR Subpart
4.13, Personal Identity Verification.

    (g) The Contractor shall ensure that its subcontractors (at all
tiers) which perform work under this contract comply with the
requirements contained in this clause.

    (End of clause)


352.239-71  Standard for Encryption Language.

    As prescribed in [HHSAR]339.101(d)(2), the Contracting Officer shall
insert the following clause:

Standard for Encryption Language (October 2009)

    (a) The Contractor shall use Federal Information Processing
Standard (FIPS) 140-2-compliant encryption (Security Requirements
for Cryptographic Module, as amended) to protect all instances of
HHS sensitive information during storage and transmission. (Note:
The Government has determined that HHS information under this
contract is considered ``sensitive'' in accordance with FIPS 199,
Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and
Information Systems, dated February 2004.)

    (b) The Contractor shall verify that the selected encryption
product has been validated under the Cryptographic Module Validation
Program (see http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/) to confirm compliance
with FIPS 140-2 (as amended). The Contractor shall provide a written
copy of the validation documentation to the Contracting Officer and
the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative.

    (c) The Contractor shall use the Key Management Key (see FIPS
201, Chapter 4, as amended) on the HHS personal identification
verification (PIV) card; or alternatively, the Contractor shall
establish and use a key recovery mechanism to ensure the ability for
authorized personnel to decrypt and recover all encrypted
information (see http://csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/ombencryption-guidance.pdf). The Contractor shall notify the
Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer's Technical
Representative of personnel authorized to decrypt and recover all
encrypted information.

    (d) The Contractor shall securely generate and manage encryption
keys to prevent unauthorized decryption of information in accordance
with FIPS 140-2 (as amended).

    (e) The Contractor shall ensure that this standard is
incorporated into the Contractor's property management/control
system or establish a separate procedure to account for all laptop
computers, desktop computers, and other mobile devices and portable
media that store or process sensitive HHS information.

    (f) The Contractor shall ensure that its subcontractors (at all
tiers) which perform work under this contract comply with the
requirements contained in this clause.

    (End of clause)


352.239-72  Security Requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources.

    As prescribed in [HHSAR] 339.7103, the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:

Security Requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources
(October 2009)

    (a) Applicability. This clause applies whether the entire
contract or order (hereafter ``contract''), or portion thereof,
includes information technology resources or services in which the
Contractor has physical or logical (electronic) access to, or
operates a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) system
containing, information that directly supports HHS' mission. The
term ``information technology (IT)'', as used in this clause,
includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging
peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for
security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be
controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software,
firmware and similar procedures, services (including support
services) and related resources. This clause does not apply to
national security systems as defined in FISMA.

    (b) Contractor responsibilities. The Contractor is responsible
for the following:
    (1) Protecting Federal information and Federal information
systems in order to ensure their--
    (i) Integrity, which means guarding against improper information
modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information non-
repudiation and authenticity;
    (ii) Confidentiality, which means preserving authorized
restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for
protecting personal privacy and proprietary information; and.
    (iii) Availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable
access to and use of information.
    (2) Providing security of any Contractor systems, and
information contained therein, connected to an HHS network or
operated by the Contractor, regardless of location, on behalf of
HHS.
    (3) Adopting, and implementing, at a minimum, the policies,
procedures, controls, and standards of the HHS Information Security
Program to ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability
of Federal information and Federal information systems for which the
Contractor is responsible under this contract or to which it may
otherwise have access under this contract. The HHS Information
Security Program is outlined in the HHS Information Security Program
Policy, which is available on the HHS Office of the Chief
Information Officer's (OCIO) Web site.

    (c) Contractor security deliverables. In accordance with the
timeframes specified, the Contractor shall prepare and submit the
following security documents to the Contracting Officer for review,
comment, and acceptance:
    (1) IT Security Plan (IT-SP)--due within 30 days after contract
award. The IT-SP shall be consistent with, and further detail the
approach to, IT security contained in the Contractor's bid or
proposal that resulted in the award of this contract. The IT-SP
shall describe the processes and procedures that the Contractor will
follow to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are
developed, processed, or used under this contract. If the IT-SP only
applies to a portion of the contract, the Contractor shall specify
those parts of the contract to which the IT-SP applies.
    (i) The Contractor's IT-SP shall comply with applicable Federal
laws that include, but are not limited to, the Federal Information
Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 (Title III of the E-
Government Act of 2002, Public Law 107-347), and the following
Federal and HHS policies and procedures:
    (A) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130,
Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, Security
of Federal Automated Information Resources.
    (B) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Special Publication (SP) 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans
for Federal Information Systems, in form and content, and with any
pertinent contract Statement of Work/Performance Work Statement
(SOW/PWS) requirements. The IT-SP shall identify and document
appropriate IT security controls consistent with the sensitivity of
the information and the requirements of Federal Information
Processing Standard (FIPS) 200, Recommended Security Controls for
Federal Information Systems. The Contractor shall review and update
the IT-SP in accordance with NIST SP 800-26, Security Self-
Assessment Guide for Information Technology Systems and FIPS 200, on
an annual basis.
    (C) HHS-OCIO Information Systems Security and Privacy Policy.
    (ii) After resolution of any comments provided by the Government
on the draft IT-SP, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-SP
and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract for
Contractor implementation and maintenance. On an annual basis, the
Contractor shall provide to the Contracting Officer verification
that the IT-SP remains valid.
    (2) IT Risk Assessment (IT-RA)--due within 30 days after
contract award. The IT-RA shall be consistent, in form and content,
with NIST SP 800-30, Risk Management Guide for Information
Technology Systems, and any additions or augmentations described in
the HHS-OCIO Information Systems Security and Privacy Policy. After
resolution of any comments provided by the Government on the draft
IT-RA, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-RA and
incorporate the Contractor's final version into the contract for
Contractor implementation and maintenance. The Contractor shall
update the IT-RA on an annual basis.
    (3) FIPS 199 Standards for Security Categorization of Federal
Information and Information Systems Assessment (FIPS 199
Assessment)--due within 30 days after contract award. The FIPS 199
Assessment shall be consistent with the cited NIST standard. After
resolution of any comments by the Government on the draft FIPS 199
Assessment, the Contracting Officer shall accept the FIPS 199
Assessment and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the
contract.
    (4) IT Security Certification and Accreditation (IT-SC&A)--due
within 3 months after contract award. The Contractor shall submit
written proof to the Contracting Officer that an IT-SC&A was
performed for applicable information systems--see paragraph (a) of
this clause. The Contractor shall perform the IT-SC&A in accordance
with the HHS Chief Information Security Officer's Certification and
Accreditation Checklist; NIST SP 800-37, Guide for the Security
Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems; and
NIST SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal
Information Systems. An authorized senior management official shall
sign the draft IT-SC&A and provide it to the Contracting Officer for
review, comment, and acceptance.
    (i) After resolution of any comments provided by the Government
on the draft IT-SC&A, the Contracting Officer shall accept the IT-
SC&A and incorporate the Contractor's final version into the
contract as a compliance requirement.
    (ii) The Contractor shall also perform an annual security
control assessment and provide to the Contracting Officer
verification that the IT-SC&A remains valid. Evidence of a valid
system accreditation includes written results of:
    (A) Annual testing of the system contingency plan; and
    (B) The performance of security control testing and evaluation.

    (d) Personal identity verification. The Contractor shall
identify its employees with access to systems operated by the
Contractor for HHS or connected to HHS systems and networks. The
Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) shall
identify, for those identified employees, position sensitivity
levels that are commensurate with the responsibilities and risks
associated with their assigned positions. The Contractor shall
comply with the HSPD-12 requirements contained in ``HHS-Controlled
Facilities and Information Systems Security'' requirements specified
in the SOW/PWS of this contract.

    (e) Contractor and subcontractor employee training. The
Contractor shall ensure that its employees, and those of its
subcontractors, performing under this contract complete HHS-
furnished initial and refresher security and privacy education and
awareness training before being granted access to systems operated
by the Contractor on behalf of HHS or access to HHS systems and
networks. The Contractor shall provide documentation to the COTR
evidencing that Contractor employees have completed the required
training.

    (f) Government access for IT inspection. The Contractor shall
afford the Government access to the Contractor's and subcontractors'
facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases, and
personnel used in performance of this contract to the extent
required to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability testing), investigation, and audit to safeguard against threats and
hazards to the integrity, confidentiality, and availability, of HHS data or to the protection of information systems operated on behalf of HHS.

    (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance
of this clause in all subcontracts that require protection of
Federal information and Federal information systems as described in
paragraph (a) of this clause, including those subcontracts that--
    (1) Have physical or electronic access to HHS' computer systems,
networks, or IT infrastructure; or
    (2) Use information systems to generate, store, process, or
exchange data with HHS or on behalf of HHS, regardless of whether
the data resides on a HHS or the Contractor's information system.

    (h) Contractor employment notice. The Contractor shall
immediately notify the Contracting Officer when an employee either
begins or terminates employment (or is no longer assigned to the HHS
project under this contract), if that employee has, or had, access
to HHS information systems or data.

    (i) Document information. The Contractor shall contact the
Contracting Officer for any documents, information, or forms
necessary to comply with the requirements of this clause.

    (j) Contractor responsibilities upon physical completion of the
contract. The Contractor shall return all HHS information and IT
resources provided to the Contractor during contract performance and
certify that all HHS information has been purged from Contractor-
owned systems used in contract performance.

    (k) Failure to comply. Failure on the part of the Contractor or
its subcontractors to comply with the terms of this clause shall be
grounds for the Contracting Officer to terminate this contract.

    (End of clause)

352.239-73  Electronic Information and Technology Accessibility.

    (a) As prescribed in [HHSAR]339.201-70(a), the Contracting Officer shall
insert the following provision:

Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility (October 2009)

    (a) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
Electronic and Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR
Part 1194), require that, unless an exception applies, all EIT
products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used by
any Federal department or agency permit--
    (1) Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and
use information and data that is comparable to the access and use of
information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals
with disabilities; and
    (2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information
or services from a Federal agency to have access to and use of
information and data that is comparable to the access and use of
information and data by members of the public who are not
individuals with disabilities.

    (b) Accordingly, any vendor submitting a proposal/quotation/bid
in response to this solicitation must demonstrate compliance with
the established EIT accessibility standards. Information about
Section 508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete
text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/provisions.htm.

    (c) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this
solicitation are identified in the Statement of Work/Specification/
Performance Work Statement. In order to facilitate the Government's
evaluation to determine whether EIT products and services proposed
meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, offerors must
prepare an HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, in
accordance with its completion instructions, and provide a binding
statement of conformance. The purpose of the template is to assist
HHS acquisition and program officials in determining that EIT
products and services proposed support applicable Section 508
accessibility standards. The template allows vendors or developers
to self-evaluate their products or services and document in detail
how they do or do not conform to a specific Section 508
accessibility standard. Instructions for preparing the HHS Section
508 Evaluation Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the
HHS Office on Disability Web site (http://www.hhs.gov/od).

    (d) Respondents to this solicitation must also provide any
additional detailed information necessary for determining applicable
Section 508 accessibility standards conformance, as well as for
documenting EIT products or services that are incidental to the
project, which would constitute an exception to Section 508
requirements. If a vendor claims its products or services, including
EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, meet
applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in its completed HHS
Section 508 Product Assessment Template, and it is later determined
by the Government--i.e., after award of a contract/order, that
products or services delivered do not conform to the described
accessibility standards in the Product Assessment Template,
remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance
specified in the vendor's Product Assessment Template will be the
responsibility of the Contractor and at its expense.
    (End of provision)


    (b) As prescribed in 339.201-70(b), the Contracting Officer shall
insert the following clause:

Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility (October 2009)

    (a) Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
(29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of
1998, all electronic and information technology (EIT) products and
services developed, acquired, maintained, or used under this
contract/order must comply with the ``Electronic and Information
Technology Accessibility Provisions'' set forth by the Architectural
and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as
the ``Access Board'') in 36 CFR part 1194. Information about Section
508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of
Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/provisions.htm.

    (b) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this
contract/order are identified in the Statement of Work/
Specification/Performance Work Statement. The Contractor must
provide a written Section 508 conformance certification due at the
end of each contract/order exceeding $100,000 when the contract/
order duration is one year or less. If it is determined by the
Government that EIT products and services provided by the Contractor
do not conform to the described accessibility standards in the
Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services
to the level of conformance specified in the Contractor's Product
Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor at
its own expense.

    (c) In the event of a modification(s) to this contract/order,
which adds new EIT products or services or revises the type of, or
specifications for, products or services the Contractor is to
provide, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and
reports, the Contracting Officer may require that the contractor
submit a completed HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template to
assist the Government in determining that the EIT products or
services support Section 508 accessibility standards. Instructions
for documenting accessibility via the HHS Section 508 Product
Assessment Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS
Office on Disability Web site (http://www.hhs.gov/od).


    (c) As prescribed in 339.201-70(c), the Contracting Officer shall
add the following paragraph to the end of clause 352.239-73(b):

    Prior to the Contracting Officer exercising an option for a
subsequent performance period/additional quantity or adding funding
for a subsequent performance period under this contract, as
applicable, the Contractor must provide a Section 508 Annual Report
to the Contracting Officer and Project Officer. Unless otherwise
directed by the Contracting Officer in writing, the Contractor shall
provide the cited report in accordance with the following schedule.
Instructions for completing the report are available in the Section
508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability Web site under the
heading Vendor Information and Documents. The Contractor's failure
to submit a timely and properly completed report may jeopardize the
Contracting Officer's exercising an option or adding funding, as
applicable.

Schedule for Contractor Submission of Section 508 Annual Report

    (To be completed by the Contracting Officer at time of contract/
order award.)


HHS-OCIO Standard for Security Configurations Language in HHS Contracts


A.  HHS Standard 2009-0001.001S (January 30, 2009)

To implement Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 39.101(d) regarding Common Security Configurations, and Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) information security requirements, the following standard language shall be incorporated in solicitations and new contracts for
the operation or acquisition of information technology systems.  This document supersedes HHS Standard 2008-0004.001S, HHS-OCIO Standard for
Security Configurations Language in HHS Contracts (dated September 11, 2008), and is effective immediately.1  An approved HHS Department
Information Security Policy/Standard Waiver2 is required to deviate from the technical standard set forth below. 
1. Contractor computers containing HHS data shall be configured with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC)
(http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm),3 and shall have and maintain the latest operating system patch level and anti-virus software level.
2.  The Contractor shall apply approved security configurations to information technology that is used to process information on behalf of the
Department, its Operating Divisions (OPDIVs) and Staff Divisions (STAFFDIVs). 

Such approved security configurations shall be identified jointly by the OPDIV/STAFFDIV Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR)
and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Approved security configurations include, but are not limited to, those published by the
Department,4 by the OPDIV/STAFFDIV, and by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) at http://checklist.nist.gov.
OPDIVs/STAFFDIVs may have security configurations that are more stringent than the minimum baseline set by the Department or NIST.  When
incorporating such security configuration requirements in solicitations and contracts, the OPDIV CISO shall be consulted to determine the
appropriate configuration reference for a particular system or services acquisition.

3.  The Contractor shall ensure applications operated on behalf of the Department or OPDIV/STAFFDIV are fully functional and operate correctly
on systems configured in accordance with the above configuration requirements.  The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol
(SCAP)-validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to ensure its products operate correctly with FDCC configurations and do not alter FDCC
settings.5 The Contractor shall test applicable product versions with all relevant and current updates and patches installed. The contractor
shall ensure currently supported versions of information technology (IT) products meet the latest FDCC major version and subsequent major
versions.6


4. The Contractor shall ensure applications designed for end users run in the standard user context without requiring elevated administrative
privileges.


5. The Contractor shall ensure hardware and software installation, operation, maintenance, update, and patching shall not alter the
configuration settings or requirements specified above


6. Federal Information Processing Standard 201 (FIPS-201)7 compliant, Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) card readers shall:
(a) be included with the purchase of servers, desktops, and laptops; and (b) comply with FAR Subpart 4.13, Personal Identity Verification.

7. The Contractor shall ensure all its subcontractors which perform work under this contract (at all tiers) comply with the above requirements.
 APPROVED BY & EFFECTIVE ON:

                              /s/                                            January 30, 2009           
Michael W. Carleton                                                                   Date
HHS Chief Information Officer and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information Technology                

 APPROVED BY & EFFECTIVE ON:

                              /s/                                            January 30, 2009           
Martin J. Brown                                                                    Date
HHS Senior Procurement Executive and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Acquisition Management and Policy                

 1 This requirement shall be incorporated into the HHS Acquisition Regulation and the HHS Acquisition Plan.
2 The HHS Departmental Information Security Policy/Standard Waiver form and process is available at
http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/policies_memos.html.
3 FDCC is applicable to all computing systems using Windows XP™ and Windows Vista™, including desktops and laptops—regardless of function—but
not including servers. The Department has developed an HHS version of FDCC (henceforth HHS FDCC) for Windows XP™ and Vista™ to accommodate
business and operational needs in the HHS environment.  These settings are available at http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/guidance.html.  When
there is a compelling business or operational need to deviate from the FDCC, Operating Divisions (OPDIVs) and Staff Divisions (STAFFDIVs) may
use the HHS FDCC settings instead of the government-wide FDCC settings.
4 See HHS Minimum Security Configuration Standards for Departmental Operating Systems and Applications (as amended) at
http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/guidance.html.
5 See http://nvd.nist.gov/validation.cfm, as required by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum (M) 08-22, Guidance on the Federal
Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC), released August 11, 2008.
6 This meets the self-assertion requirement under OMB M-08-22. Future FDCC changes having minimal security impact may be released as minor
versions to FDCC.  Self-assertion is not required for minor releases.
7 http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips201-1/FIPS-201-1-chng1.pdf





B.  HHS Standard 2009-0002.001S (January 30, 2009)

The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) requires incorporation of the following standard language in solicitations and new contracts
that either purchase or require the use of desktop or laptop computers, mobile devices, or portable media to store or process HHS sensitive
information that is categorized as Moderate or High under Federal Information Processing Standard 199 (FIPS 199).1  An approved HHS Department
Information Security Policy/Standard Waiver2 is required to deviate from these technical standards.  This standard is effective immediately.3

   1. The Contractor shall use FIPS 140-2 (as amended) compliant encryption4 to protect all instances of HHS sensitive information5 during
      storage and transmission.  
   2. The Contractor shall verify that the selected encryption product has been validated under the Cryptographic Module Validation Program
      (http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/) to confirm compliance with FIPS 140-2 (as amended).  The Contractor shall provide a written copy of the
      validation documentation to both the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).
   3. The Contractor shall use the Key Management Key on the HHS personal identification verification (PIV) card; or alternatively, the
      Contractor shall establish and use a key recovery mechanism to ensure the ability for authorized personnel to decrypt and recover all
      encrypted information.6
   4. The Contractor shall securely generate and manage encryption keys to prevent unauthorized decryption of information, in accordance with
      FIPS 140-2 (as amended).
   5. The Contractor shall: ensure that this standard is incorporated into the Contractor’s property management/control system; or establish a
      procedure to account for all laptop computers, desktop computers, and other mobile devices and portable media that store or process
      sensitive HHS information.
   6. The Contractor shall ensure that all of its employees, subcontractors (at all tiers), and employees of each subcontractor, who perform work
      under this contract/subcontract, comply with the above requirements.
 APPROVED BY & EFFECTIVE ON:

                              /s/                                            January 30, 2009           
Michael W. Carleton                                                                   Date
HHS Chief Information Officer and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information Technology                

APPROVED BY & EFFECTIVE ON:

                              /s/                                            January 30, 2009           
Martin J. Brown                                                                    Date
HHS Senior Procurement Executive and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Acquisition Management and Policy                

 1 FIPS-199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems, dated February 2004.

2 The HHS Departmental Information Security Policy/Standard Waiver form and process is available at
http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/policies_memos.html.

3This requirement shall be incorporated into the HHS Acquisition Regulation and the HHS Acquisition Plan.

4  The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum (M) 07-16, Safeguarding Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable
Information (released May 22, 2007) requires the use of FIPS 140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Module, compliant encryption
technologies on laptop computers and all other mobile computers and devices containing sensitive information.  The HHS memorandum Mandatory
Protection of Sensitive Information on Computers, Mobile Devices, and Portable Media (henceforth called the Protection of Sensitive Information
Memo), signed by the HHS Chief of Staff on May 19, 2008, directs expansion of the current HHS Encryption Standard for Mobile Devices and
Portable Media to “all government and non-government-furnished desktops used on behalf of the government that store sensitive information.”

5 For the purposes of this contract, information is considered sensitive if the FIPS 199 Confidentiality or Integrity security objective is
rated Moderate or High by the OPDIV Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) or HHS Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), as appropriate.

6 Key recovery is required by OMB Guidance to Federal Agencies on Data Availability and Encryption, November 26, 2001,
http://csrc.nist.gov/policies/ombencryption-guidance.pdf. Authorized personnel to decrypt and recover all encrypted information shall be
identified by contract.



