SOLICITATION H92244-14-T-0095 Questions and Answers #1 3/3/14 Q1. Is there a schedule ONSITE visit prior to the due date of proposal/quote plus question and answer with the expert end user - on the equipment, cabling routes, room dimensions, etc on the above solicitation? A1. No, there will not be a site visit for this requirement. Q2. After reading through your solicitation I just want to clear up that you are looking to install just those Cisco endpoints, correct? A2. This will involve integration of two C60 Codecs into two separate existing VTC suites (one per suite). The two existing suites already have two C90 codecs each and they are connected to networks of different classifications. The addition of a third C60 codec (one per room) will incorporate three way secure switching of the existing GFE HD Video camera and will include system control processor, DSP and touch panel programming updates and modification. Q3. I am assuming your existing VTC system (bridge) and rack is a Cisco piece correct? A3. All Cisco C-Series VTC codecs will be rack mounted in existing 19" Mid-Atlantic AV equipment racks. Q4. Would the customer consider changing the requirement to have a service center within 75miles to 100miles? We are bidding another deal in Virginia beach and they have 100mile requirement as well. Please, let me know and thank you for your time. A4. My end-user has responded and they will not change the service center miles requirement. I'm not familiar with the other SOCOM Virginia Beach solicitation but there are several offices, outside of our location, who solicit similar requests. Each requirement stands alone. Thank you for your interest. Q5. Do you have the existing Creston Program Code and is the current Control System Unit Software password protected? A5. Yes, it is also stated in the SOW. Q6. Do you have a list of current GFE which exists in both equipment racks? A6. We have existing Line drawings of existing equipment. Q7. Are there other devices in the room which will need re-programming to communicate with the C60 other than the Camera and the DSP? A7. Yes, the camera video switcher and the system switcher for PC presentation mode, see SOW. Q8. Do you have existing CAD Drawings of the (2) Conference rooms requiring the upgrade? A8. Yes.

Q9. Will the contractor be providing all the furnished equipment including (2) C60 Codecs with included option licenses, 1 year service, hardware cabling and 3 way HD Camera Video Control Switcher? A9. Yes, See SOW. Q10. Will the contractor be providing any cameras? Q10. No, See SOW. Q11. How many cameras does each room currently have? A11. One, See SOW. Q12. Does the Government require the contractor to use the existing cameras and integrate them into the new C60 Codec via Video Control Switcher which will be provided by the contractor? A12. Yes, as stated in the SOW. Q13. Per the scope of work below. we ask to integrate two (2) C60 codecs into an existing AV solutions (with DSP's, switchers, control systems, etc.); one in BLDG 250, RM B211 and another in BLDG 250, RM B214. My we have a copy of the existing AV flow diagrams so we can accurately quote these upgrades? A13. I have not received the latest updated diagrams for those rooms showing the new codecs installed nevertheless, one C-60 codec will be added to each of the systems providing 3 separate VTC codecs per system. Each room will only share one existing GFE Cisco HD 12X PTZ camera. The camera video will be switched between each VTC codec and not sent through a distribution amplifier or hub. The Crestron control processor and touch panel programming will be modified to include the additional codec as another video source and utilize the same control page as the existing codecs for control and routing.

