5/3/2010

National Library of Medicine

Statement of Work: 
Information on Herbs and Supplements for MedlinePlus 

1. Background

To assist consumers in obtaining the information they need to make informed decisions about health care, the National Library of Medicine (NLM) has developed MedlinePlus (medlineplus.gov), an easily understandable Web resource for the public.  MedlinePlus and provides accurate, authoritative and up-to-date information to the general public, allied health professionals and health information intermediaries such as librarians, nurses and health educators.  The focus of this resource is its 830 (and growing) topic pages which contain links to quality government information, especially NLM and NIH resources as well as other high quality information providers.  MedlinePlus is not an index of all consumer health information on the Web; rather it contains highly selective links representing the best information in terms of quality, literacy level, authority of authorship, uniqueness and appropriateness for MedlinePlus’ users.  MedlinePlus en español (medlineplus.gov/esp) is the Spanish version of MedlinePlus with equal content, purpose and selection procedures. MedlinePlus and MedlinePlus en español are both available in mobile versions. 





2. Purpose and Objectives of the Procurement

The National Library of Medicine (NLM) requires authoritative herbal and dietary supplement information for inclusion in the MedlinePlus full and mobile web sites ( and http://m.medlineplus.gov), both of which include information in both English and Spanish. The herb and dietary supplement information will be an important resource for consumers, and will augment the information already provided on MedlinePlus. NLM will host the content on its own servers.  Content will be displayed in MedlinePlus templates with attribution to the content provider. Links to the content may also be included in email updates and Twitter posts sent from the National Library of Medicine to interested users.



3. Mandatory requirements

Authoritative content: The content must be accurate and authoritative. The authorship of the content must be identified. The medical advisory board of the health content must be provided via the web. Content should be based on peer-reviewed evidence and contain references to the evidence. 

Equivalent content in English and Spanish: The content of the monographs must be completely equivalent in English and Spanish. The content must be structured in such a way that NLM can map from information in one language to the other. 

Regular updating of content: Content must be current, and reviewed and updated at least yearly.

Emergency updating of content: There must be a provision for updating and/or replacing inaccurate or outdated content outside the regular update schedule if requested by NLM or deemed necessary by changes in the health environment.

No commercial content: Information must be free of commercial endorsements or advertisements. 

Unobtrusive co-branding: Branding by the content provider must be minimal and unobtrusive.

No registration: Users must be able to access all content licensed by NLM without having to register with the content provider.

Format of content: Content must be delivered to NLM in a desired format, such as well-formed XML with accompanying DTD or schema.

Accessibility of content: Content must be accessible in accordance with Section 508 (29 U.S.C. 794d). It is the responsibility of the content provider to familiarize themselves with Section 508 requirements and ensure that their content meets these requirements.  



3. Specific requirements



a. Technical

Files must be customizable to be integrated into the MedlinePlus environment. 

NLM must be able to index content for its search engine. 

NLM must be able to provide users with a printer-friendly version of the individual content pages.  The content provider does not need to provide this formatting.  NLM can create this formatting.

NLM must be able to provide users with the ability to email the individual content pages to other users. The content provider does not need to provide the service.  NLM may implement this with a custom solution. 

NLM must be able to implement links to social networking sites and other online sharing forums from the individual content pages to allow MedlinePlus users to easily share content of interest within their social networks.  The links will be implemented through a custom solution or through a third party such as AddThis.com.

b. Content 

The content must be consumer-friendly and written at a consumer reading level. 

Content should provide graded scales of effectiveness for remedies. 

We prefer having high-quality drawings or photographs that accompany the information. 

Content updates must be accompanied by detailed documentation of the changes that have been made to the content. Documentation must include a list of information that has been added, edited, or deleted.

4. Other required information

The response to this solicitation must include pricing information. Provide a cost per unit (one monograph), per entire package, per 50 units, and per 100 units.  Pricing should account for display on both medlineplus.gov and m.medlineplus.gov. In the pricing information, indicate if one unit includes both the English and corresponding Spanish monograph, or if an English monograph and corresponding Spanish monograph are each treated as a distinct units and have separate prices 


Provide a list of other organizations that license the content, along with accompanying web site URLs, for NLM to review. 


Provide three references with names and numbers of persons with knowledge of past performance on similar efforts.  



