PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT FOR THE UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION COMMAND AND THE MILITARY SURFACE DEPLOYMENT AND DISTRIBUTION COMMAND USTRANSCOM Geospatial Information System

28 August 2014

Page 1 of 48

This page is intentionally left blank

Page 2 of 48

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT USTRANSCOM Geospatial Information System Table of Contents SECTION TITLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES DELIVERABLES SERVICE DELIVERY SUMMARY GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED AND CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED EQUIPMENT GENERAL INFORMATION SECURITY CYBER SECURITY Appendices A TERMS AND DEFINITIONS B NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT C APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS D ESTIMATED WORKLOAD E GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT LIST

Page 3 of 48

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS) FOR USTRANSCOM Geospatial Information System

1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES 1.1 Background 1.1.1 The United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) and its component service commands require a solution to provide a geospatial services and a common set of information technology tools and applications for execution, reporting, visualization, collaboration and dissemination of geospatial information. Central to this is a collaboration suite of tools along with a central geospatial data catalog and services. This capability need for an enterprise Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) mapping solution and a repository for all the GIS related data, builds on the Enterprise Geospatial Information System (EGIS) enterprise tool. This requirement focuses on sustaining, enhancing, creating new capability, and integrating the GIS common tool set for visualization and exposing geospatially referenced information to support situational awareness and collaboration. The solution will integrate into and with a variety of applications and portals. The GIS mapping solution is based on Esri ArcGIS technology which supports a robust set of functions required for consistent data visualization throughout the enterprise and forms the baseline for enterprise geospatial services. USTRANSCOM also requires a web-based geospatial system that enhances its mission to manage and improve the global deployment and distribution. This requirement is currently satisfied by the Intelligent Road and Rail Information System (IRRISŽ). The new system will replicate IRRISŽ as-is capability and business rules acting as a real-time global asset tracking system that enables transportation users to obtain detailed, timely and relevant information about road conditions, construction, traffic events and weather that might interfere with the surface movement of cargo within a particular geographic location. It also allows the real-time tracking and management of transportation assets using geospatial technology to reduce operational burdens and provide ad-hoc reporting and alerting tools. This system will directly support the Defense Transportation Tracking Service (DTTS) and Defense Courier Division (DCD) at USTRANSCOM with mission specific capabilities based on their business rules. Additionally, geospatial analytic tools enable transportation engineers and analysts to conduct quick table top analysis of transportation infrastructure and natural/manmade conditions that affect that infrastructure. Interoperability between this system and EGIS is highly critical to this procurement. 1.1.2. USTRANSCOM EGIS provides a GIS framework on the SIPRNET/NIPRNET environments to enable the sharing of geospatial data and imagery across the Command. EGIS includes the enterprise map viewer, enterprise catalog and enterprise collaboration solution. EGIS provides a place where enterprise GIS data is discoverable throughout the Command. The GIS Analyst and operational users will be able to search for data created by other GIS initiatives within the Command to be used in conjunction with their requirements to produce map products. This continued partnership leverages Command hardware, software, data, and analysis resources to incorporate the most useful and relevant information for USTRANSCOM GIS (TGIS) users. The TGIS provides an integrated web enabled realtime geospatial mission management and tracking of critical assets in the Defense Transportation System, web-based geospatial engineering analysis, and situational awareness capabilities. The TGIS will require data exchange interfaces, integration of appropriate web services, and application business rules to satisfy mission requirements. The TGIS and EGIS must operate from the same support hardware and COTS software to maintain hardware and program management efficiencies required by the government. 1.2 Scope

Page 4 of 48

The scope of this PWS consists of technical and analytical expertise including services required to meet the information needs for transportation engineering, mission management, security, and analysis. This PWS is established to support the Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Transportation Engineering Agency (SDDCTEA) need to meet military transportation and mobility deployment objectives on a worldwide basis. The primary intention is technical refresh of the program to acquire full government purpose rights and provide support and develop the current EGIS baseline capabilities. All development, enhancements, and sustainment activities will be based on current business processes, rules and capabilities and to sustain, enhance and further develop the new system with transportation decision support solutions to better provide for the military's mobility goals. This system is deployed in several environments and has a staging (NIPR & SIPR) and production (SIPR & NIPR) environment. The system will be developed and hosted in the SDDC Common Computing Environment on the NIPRNET and hosted on existing government equipment on the USTRANSCOM SIPRNET. The task areas and associated specific tasks are: Task 1: Contract Level and Project Management Task 2: Program Development Task 3: Data Sustainment and Maintenance, Security, and Documentation Task 4: Program Sustainment Task 5: Enhancements and New Development Task 6: Configuration Management Task 7: Information Assurance Task 8: EGIS Sustainment and Enhancements 1.3 Specific Tasks

1.3.1 Task 1: Contract Level and Project Management
This task consists of the functional activities relating to the administration and management of this effort. The contractor shall provide project management of contractor personnel performing tasks in this contract. The contractor shall designate a lead point of contact for technical issues. The contractor shall provide a centralized program management capability at the contractor site. This function shall encompass administrative, clerical, documentation, and related functions that provide general support for the program. The contractor shall provide support by preparing documents such as briefings, point papers, and meeting minutes related to status of the performance of this contract. The contractor shall be required to provide support in the specific areas outlined below in this PWS.

1.3.1.1 Task 1 Subtask 1: Monthly Status Reporting (MSR)
The MSR shall include a brief synopsis of the efforts completed, deliverables provided, activities scheduled for the following month, and conferences and trips conducted/attended during the reporting period. If an employee traveled during the reporting period, the MSR shall include travel expenses and receipts. The MSR shall identify problem areas. The MSR is due monthly at the close of business of the 5th duty day of the month following the report month. 1.3.1.2 Task 1 Subtask 2: In Progress Review (IPR) The contractor shall meet with the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) periodically as the COR may require, to discuss any problems with current tasks, assignment of future tasks and to obtain Government decisions or guidance necessary to contractor performance. IPRs will be held weekly or more often at the discretion of the COR. 1.3.1.3 Task 1 Subtask 3: Task Order Management Plan

Page 5 of 48

The contractor shall provide a Task Order Management Plan describing the functional approach, organizational and financial resources, supporting organizational structure and management controls that the contractor shall employ in accordance with tasks and deliverables in this PWS. The draft plan shall be submitted within 15 business days of award. The Government will have 10 business days to review the plan and provide comments. The contractor shall have five business days from receipt of the Government's comments to submit the final plan. 1.3.1.4 Task 1 Subtask 4: Employment Status Report The contractor shall provide an employee status report (listing/spreadsheet) containing names and labor categories of personnel supporting the tasks identified in paragraph 1.3. The report shall be provided within thirty (30) calendar days after contract award and updates to the COR no later than 4:00 PM central time the first work day of the following week after contractor staffing levels or personnel are changed. 1.3.1.5 Task 1 Subtask 5: Contractor Manpower Report (CMR) The contractor shall report ALL contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this contract for Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command via a secure data collection site. The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the following web address. Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30. While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2015. Contractors may direct questions to the help desk at: http://www.ecmra.mil. 1.3.2 Task Area 2: Program Development The Contractor shall develop the TGIS by reviewing existing architectural and requirements documents for the existing system, interviewing current system user communities established by the Configuration Control Board (CCB), documenting requirements and business rules for CCB review, and developing capability per CCB and Program Manager (PM) priority. System architecture shall make use of the COTS products currently in use with EGIS and IRRIS Ž to the greatest extent possible. The Contractor shall comply with industry standard development processes, requirements set forth by the SDDC Business Systems NIPRNET Enclave and Software Development Environment (SDE) and the USTRANSCOM SIPRNet Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) in developing a system meeting the requirements set forth by the CCB and PM. Development, testing and fielding shall comply with all security and current DIACAP DOD 8510.01, the migration to the Risk Management Framework or the current governance for the certification and accreditation process. The contractor shall identify and document all interface, data, software, hardware and technical artifacts to include full system documentation requirements for the Systems Information repository in the USTRANSCOM Information Tool Suite (ITS). Contractor-provided software development services shall meet all technical requirements as outlined below. 1.3.2.1 Task 2 Subtask 1: Software Development The contractor shall prepare a Systems Engineering Management Plan (SEMP) that describes the contractor's technical approach and plan for the conduct, management, and control of the integrated systems engineering effort. The contractor's SEMP shall be submitted for approval by the COR prior to initiating work. The contractor shall address technology upgrades and architecture improvements in the SEMP.

Page 6 of 48

The SEMP shall identify a spiral or agile methodology for the development of geospatial and mission management capabilities supporting the DTTS, DCS, and TEA Infrastructure requirements within the SDDC MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE with the following minimum measures:  Configurable, intuitive user interfaces  Configurable business rules  Configurable external partner integration methods (connections and transports for external interfaces)  Visibility across all business processes and process steps for status and performance monitoring, alerts and error notifications, and analytics.  Web Services implementation using SDDC Business System Enclave (BSE) components  External and internal interface implementations using the SDDC BSE Enterprise Service Bus (ESB)  Maximum use of COTS software currently in use. Esri ArcGIS is the recommended mapping software for this requirement. Oracle is the recommended database software. The SEMP shall include a strategy for incrementally replicating existing functionality. The SEMP shall incorporate these migrations as part of the implementation of the DTTS, DCS, and TEA Infrastructure capabilities. The contractor shall include referenced lower level plans such as Configuration Management Plan (CMP) and Software Development Plan (SDP) in the SEMP to plan and execute a total system engineering effort. The contractor shall prepare a SDP that contains the details of the software development requirements essential to proper software development control. The contractor shall use Government-provided "as is" architecture views to create "to be" architecture views SV-1, SV-6, StdV-1, and StdV-2. The Government's software development process includes the following phases:    Phase I Requirements Analysis as described in PWS paragraph 1.3.2.1.1 Phase II System and Software Design as described in PWS paragraph 1.3.2.1.2 Phase III Software Implementation and Integration described in PWS paragraph 1.3.2.1.3

1.3.2.1.1 Technical Requirements
As the Distribution Process Owner (DPO), USTRANSCOM is responsible for directing and supervising the execution of the Joint Deployment Distribution Enterprise (JDDE). The Command's critical mission requires close synchronization of military services, commercial providers, and coalition partners across a global environment. Since being named DPO in 2003, USTRANSCOM has delivered a robust Joint Deployment and Distribution Architecture (JDDA) documenting the "as is" state of the JDDE. The JDDA has been an essential resource over the last five years as USTRANSCOM led increasingly complex distributionrelated activities supporting deployment, sustainment, and redeployment operating in multiple theaters. To make better investment decisions and through continued process improvement efforts, USTRANSCOM shifted its architectural focus from the current state of the JDDE to the "to be" vision of its Net Centric future defined in terms of a Corporate Service Vision (CSV). The CSV establishes the goal of creating an enhanced version of the JDDA, referred to as the Joint Deployment and Distribution Architecture-Enhanced (JDDA-E). The JDDA-E transforms the JDDE from a collection of programcentric stovepipes into an enterprise-governed, interoperable, service-oriented system driven by enterprise requirements. The JDDA-E is designed to maximize service reuse opportunities, to focus investments, and ensure operational alignment. The JDDA-E ensures complete, actionable information for more reliable decisions. The following describes JDDA-E intended uses:
Page 7 of 48

     

Requirements Management ­ Traces incoming requirements from submission through implementation utilizing an integrated corporate governance process Portfolio Management and Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC) ­ Prioritizes the investments over time to build and sustain operational capabilities Strategic Planning and Capability Analysis ­ Provides a framework for assessing capability readiness, risks, performance, and facilitates new capability development and risk mitigation Business Process Management ­ Improves agility and operational performance of business processes through active monitoring of existing operations and verification of new practices through modeling and simulation prior to implementation Standardization ­ Prescribes the standard processes, information exchanges, and data to be used across the JDDE Program Support and Guidance ­ Articulates the roles of programs within the JDDE and, by extension, their alignment to other DOD and Federal Enterprise Architectures (EAs). It also provides programs with knowledge of existing, standards-based options that they can "adopt" before they "buy" or "create"

The TGIS System program is part of the JDDE and, as such, is expected to adhere to the guidance and rules specified in the JDDA-E reference models (Governance, Mission, Performance, Service, Information Technical, and Program and Initiative) for BPM approach, SOA, information sharing, data management, performance measurement, etc. to support the DPO's CSV. The TGIS system, as an Acquisition Category (ACAT) III program, is required to comply with DODD 5000.01 and DODI 5000.02. The TGIS system is required to submit DODAF artifacts views in Joint Capability Integration and Development System (JCIDS) requirements documents, Information Support Plans (ISPs), and Tailored ISPs (TISPs). The Contractor shall assist the Government in developing and updating these documents. The Contractor shall extract architecture information from ARIS and/or develop architecture artifacts that will support the required documents. DODAF artifacts shall include, but not be limited to, All views, Operational views, Systems and Services views, and Technical Standard views IAW the most current version of CJCSI 6212.01. The Contractor shall ensure that all information technology (IT) products and services comply with the requirements listed in PWS paragraph 1.3.

1.3.2.1.2 Additional Requirements
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). The Contractor shall provide, develop, integrate and implement EDI interfaces as required to support current and future interfaces with TGIS. The Contractor shall use an EDI translation software as approved in writing by the Government. Extensible Markup Language (XML) and Web Browsers. The Contractor shall implement cross browser functionality in TGIS system code design and selection of its associated development tools and COTS product selections. In the development of client browser page content, the Contractor shall maximize the use of international, national and industry best practices and standards that are supported by multiple browser entities. The Contractor's development solutions shall conform to the most widely adopted versions of the following web content standards and references. If the Contractor proposes other or additional content standards these shall be submitted in writing for approval by the Government prior to use.    ECMA-262 3d Edition, 1999, ISO/IEC 16262 W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM/DOMTR W3C eXtensible Markup Language XML
Page 8 of 48



W3C Cascading Style Sheets

In selection of client browser coding practices, the Contractor shall develop and select coding techniques that are interoperable and compatible with the following browsers: Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, and Chrome as indicated in Table 1-1. Internet Explorer (all versions above 8) All Users Mozilla Firefox (all general release versions) All Users Chrome (all versions above 15) All Users

Applications

All

Table 1-1: Web Browsers Matrix User Registration and Authentication. The Contractor shall coordinate access control and authentication for TGIS through the SDDC Electronic Transportation Acquisition (ETA) Single Sign-on System or current service offered by the MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE or designated by the government. The Contractor shall enforce role-based access throughout the application. ETA will provide the role information through use of the ETA Triple Data Encryption Standard (TDES) encrypted token. The Government shall be responsible for user registration approval and user management. Communications The Contractor shall support the Government to ensure the TGIS allows for optimal connectivity with low user impact and reach to provide access and to meet data volume requirements, transaction requirements, and system source data capacity requirements) for services at U.S. military installations and activities as well as transportation providers worldwide. The TGIS shall support two communications entry points: The Defense Information Switched Network (DISN) and the DISA DMZ. The Contractor shall support the Government to ensure TGIS provides the capability to allow Internet (e.g., commercial Internet Service Provider), Unclassified but Sensitive Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) access to SDDC, USTRANSCOM, military and Government domains. 1.3.2.1.1 Phase I Requirements Analysis The contractor shall document current system capabilities derived from existing documentation, system information, training and security documents provided by the Government. The contractor shall document current system business rules derived from existing documentation provided by the Government. The contractor shall provide a level of effort required to create system business rules. The contractor shall develop a methodology to interview and capture requirements, business rules, processes and procedures from existing user communities established by the CCB membership. The contractor shall capture information, requirements, business rules and processes and incorporate them into the SEMP. The contractor shall conduct collaborative requirements analysis sessions with the Government. The contractor shall analyze, verify, and clarify the requirements identified for each release. For each requirement, the contractor shall also identify and include the derived requirements in the updated requirements documentation. Derived requirements are requirements resulting from the allocation of technical requirements to logical functional architectures from requirements analysis that may not be apparent to the Government but are part of the scope of the effort. The contractor shall identify

Page 9 of 48

opportunities to migrate existing functionality to the TGIS and incorporate these migrations into development of capabilities supporting DTTS, DCS, and TEA Infrastructure. During requirements analysis the contractor shall create business process models. The business process models shall contain enough details for implementation including variants and exceptions for completeness. The contractor shall determine the task type for each individual business process task (abstract, user, manual, service, business rule, script, or other custom types) and label them in the business process models accordingly. The contractor shall manage changes to requirements such as textual description, business process models, and traceability between them and in combination with a requirements management tool selected by the contractor. The contractor shall provide business process models and a Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). The RTM shall include "shall" statements and traceability from "shall" statements to business rules, business processes, and supporting process tasks. Exit Criteria for Requirements Analysis: Upon the COR's written approval of the business process models and RTM, or determination by the COR that the requirements process is otherwise satisfied by the contractor's proposal and methodology, the contractor shall have met the exit criteria for Phase I. 1.3.2.1.2 Phase II System and Software Design The contractor shall begin Phase II System and Software Design upon successfully meeting the exit criteria from Phase I Requirements Analysis. In support of Phase II, the contractor shall: 1. Suggest and develop a system development approach (spiral or agile) and testing schedule for approval by the CCB and PM. 2. Upon approval of requirement 1, develop the TGIS in the SDDC Business Systems NIPRNET Enclave Software Development Environment. 3. Develop a user acceptance plan including user stories and performance metrics to measure against. Conduct user acceptance testing of developed capability with user communities directed by the PM and CCB. 4. Develop documentation capturing all relevant information required to support approval of Authority to Operate, DIACAP, and implementation of the system in the production MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE. The contractor shall analyze the business processes and requirements from the requirements analysis phase and the existing IRRISŽ implementation to propose high-level design decisions focusing on business processes, process tasks, information exchanges, and data objects in business process models that require automation. Possible high-level design decisions for each process task, information exchange, and data object inputs/outputs requiring automation include, but are not limited to, the following:  Select business processes and process steps  Create new adaptable (web) services  Create new external and internal interfaces  Create new data entities in database and/or in a PMO approved data exchange format.  Create new user interface applications  Automate business rules Wrap and reuse existing software (COTS and GOTS) modules  Migrate existing functionality to newly designed business process execution, reusable services, automated business rules, and user interface applications

Page 10 of 48

The contractor shall create and update DODAF architecture views for software design that affects the architecture. The contractor shall create and populate Data Information Viewpoint and Service Viewpoint with views based on all the other software design documentation delivered. The contractor shall document external interface design changes in new and existing interface documents (e.g., Interface Design Description [IDD], Interface Requirements Specification [IRS], Interface Control Agreement [ICD]). Exit Criteria for Phase II System and Software Design: Upon the COR's approval of IT business process models, release-level SDD, design documentation updates to be made in the DBDD, DODAF architecture views, external interface documents, User Role Matrix, and TGIS business rules, the contractor shall have met the exit criteria for Phase II. Phase II exit criteria is also satisfied if the full suite of aforementioned requirements is adopted from the legacy system. 1.3.2.1.3 Phase III Software Implementation and Integration The contractor shall complete development of designs that have successfully exited Phase II System and Software Design. During Phase III the contractor shall conduct functional progress review sessions every two (2) weeks. The contractor shall provide a development environment for verification of requirements interpretation and implementation throughout Phase III. The contractor shall provide updated architecture documentation. The contractor shall conduct internal peer reviews for all new software module and web service implementation to ensure quality and compliance to design and coding standards specified in delivered SDP. The contractor shall monitor process performance based on the process performance requirements defined during Phase I Requirements Analysis. Exit Criteria for Phase III Software Implementation and Integration: The software release successfully meets user acceptance testing criteria and is successfully implemented in the Production environment on all domains and NIPR COOP. 1.3.3 Task Area 3: Data Sustainment and Maintenance, Security, and Documentation This includes requirements in support of the fielded TGIS and subsequent life cycle product support, including maintenance. Sustainment includes implementation of support systems integration strategies; application of diagnostics, prognostics and other condition-based maintenance techniques; identification of technology insertion opportunities; identification of operations and support cost reduction opportunities and COOP location to include software patches, hot-fixes, security patches, support for security scans, hardware maintenance and upgrades (support), acquisition and management of relevant commercially available support data (i.e. weather, traffic, imagery) and other items necessary for the successful operations of the TGIS. The contractor shall provide System Administration, Configuration Management, Architecture, and Database Admin/Business Intelligence Engineering Design in support of TGIS Management Support and Documentation. 1.3.3.1 Task 3 Subtask 1: User Interface/Report Improvement The contractor shall enhance the user interface making it more intuitive for the end user. The contractor shall modify up to 5 (five) new reports annually for specific user requirements as directed by the COR. Hours allotted for the 5 new/enhanced reports is 500 hours. 1.3.3.2 Task 3 Subtask 2: Data Sharing The contractor shall develop, on an annual basis as directed by the PMO, the capability to download data sets and provide web services to other applications in the enterprise to include the EGIS catalog. The contractor shall modify TGIS abilities to import 2 (two) geospatial data sets annually from multiple
Page 11 of 48

platforms and create web services to provide TGIS data sets to other applications as directed. Hours allotted for the 1 new geospatial data set is 300 hours. 1.3.3.3 Task 3 Subtask 3: Static Data Updates The contractor shall update existing TGIS data. These data types are typically static (infrastructure). Dynamic data, such as weather and traffic information, are separate tasks.    The contractor shall install the most current Homeland Security Infrastructure Program (HSIP) Gold data on an annual basis. To the maximum extent possible, the contractor shall utilize commercial vendor tile map services and government agency (e.g. National Geospatial Intelligence Agency) tile map services to provide reliable, up-to-date imagery and map overlay information to the TGIS user. The contractor shall actively incorporate the most current enterprise data from USTRANSCOM stakeholders EGIS catalog and data identified during monthly Enterprise GIS stakeholder meetings to include all relevant metadata. The contractor shall review all existing infrastructure layers for the latest reliable information to include, but not limited to, the following: Static Data Sets o Military Installation data sets from several sources to include DISDI catalog, TEA and the Components. Provide verification to PMO on the different data sets reviewed. Review and compare DISDI data with individual military commands data. (annual basis) o National Bridge Inventory (NBI) Bridge Data (annual basis) o USTRANSCOM generated Infrastructure Data - Ports Infrastructure Data Base (PIDB), Modernized Integrated Data Base (MIDB), Joint Operations Critical Infrastructure Program (J3 CIP) data - (quarterly basis) o Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Data (annual basis) o Federal Department of Transportation Data (annual basis) o United States Army Corp of Engineers (USACE) Infrastructure Data (annual basis) o State Department of Transportation (DOT) Links (annual basis) o Power Project Platform (PPP) Routes (quarterly basis) o Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS) (annual basis) o Maintain documents available in the EGIS catalog 1.3.3.4 Task 3 Subtask 4: Incorporate Dynamic Data The contractor shall incorporate 2 (two) dynamic data feed annually into TGIS as directed by the PMO. These data feeds will be made available by web service in the appropriate format. Hours allotted for 1 dynamic data feed is 200 hours. 1.3.3.5 Task 3 Subtask 5: Sustain Dynamic Data The contractor shall maintain and provide the following dynamic data services to TGIS users: Dynamic Data:  Provide enhanced real-time traffic flow data (NIPRnet) for all available markets, to include, at a minimum the US, Canada, and Europe. This traffic data must include, at a minimum, speed data, closures, delays, and accidents. This data must incorporate with automated alerting tools developed to support the TEA Highways for National Defense program. Routing ­ Provide routing capability to include but not limited to; address to address, latitude and longitude, and Defense Table of Distances (DTOD).



Page 12 of 48

  

Weather, to include real-time radar, storm tracks, hurricane tracks, forecasts, watches/warnings, and alerts. Wildfire Information from the Geospatial Multi-Agency Coordination Center All current Tracking Interfaces and Services o Tracking Data Feeds  Commercial Vessel Visibility (CVV)  Defense Courier Division (DCD)  Defense Transportation Tracking System (DTTS)  Global Freight Management (GFM)  Mobile Terminal Site (MTS)  Northern Distribution Network (NDN)  Premium Automated Identification Technology (AIT)  Radio Frequency (RF) ITV NGI, Military Grid Reference System (web service) ESRI, Layers (web service)  Canadian Provinces  Countries  Lat/Long Grid  U.S. States  World Airports US Census Bureau, Common ­ 2010 Census Block Population (web service) Military Installations - Army National Guard Boundaries (web service)

o o

o o

Data Feeds

Page 13 of 48

1.3.3.6 Task 3 Subtask 6: Test and Evaluation (T&E) The contractor shall provide test coverage using appropriate samples for test validation and norming for any TGIS enhancements and development effort. T&E includes reliability checks, predictive validity, and content validity, construct validity, test administration, test reporting and test and item bias. The contractor shall test all software upgrades to database environments and Operating System upgrades/patches to ensure no adverse system impact results from server changes. The contractor shall provide a report of areas tested and results. 1.3.3.7 Task 3 Subtask 7: Training and Self-Help Material The contractor shall update TGIS Help and Tooltips to reflect code updates, new functionality and enhancements quarterly. 1.3.3.8 Task 3 Subtask 8: System Management Support (SMS) The contractor shall provide System Administration, Configuration Management, Architecture, and Database Admin/Business Intelligence Engineering Design in support of TGIS Management Support and Documentation: System Administration. This element includes tasks such as: Act as Information Assurance Security Officer; apply patches and scan system hardware/software when notified by Information Assurance Project Manager (IAPM) and TGIS Program Manager; update and maintain Defense Transportation Tracking System (DTTS) specific client software; ensure Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) are updated and complete; provide 24x7 on-call response capability to system issues during non-standard duty hours as required (DTTS operational issues, Enterprise Geographical Information Systems (GIS) issues and Classified TGIS issues as required); perform bi-weekly code releases on unclassified and classified systems; assist TGIS Program Manager with DOD Information Assurance Certification & Accreditation Process (DIACAP) sustainment documentation requirements; and maintain TGIS unclassified and classified equipment inventory and coordinate property book updates. Other tasks include the following tasks:  Hardware inventories.  Server availability monitoring and metrics.  Software inventory and installation.  Anti-virus and anti-malware management.  User's activities monitoring.  Capacity monitoring.  Security management.  Storage management.  Network capacity and utilization monitoring.  Anti-manipulation management  Configuration Management. This element includes tasks such as: Maintain and staff engineering change requests for new and enhanced functionality, ensure Configuration Management Documentation is maintained in accordance with DIACAP and the TGIS Configuration Review Board charter, conduct risk assessment of new functionality requests, maintain Corporate Resource Information Source (CRIS) database, and coordinate Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan exercise annually, maintain white list, ensure ASIs are planned, documented and executed, ensure firewall requests and necessary actions to support firewall mods are carried out. Architecture and Engineering Design. This element includes tasks such as: Advise TGIS Program Manager in design and execution of system architecture, ensure equipment recommendations meet DOD security standards, and assist Program Manager in the development of architecture products.



1.3.4. Task 4: Program Sustainment
Page 14 of 48

The contractor shall update tools and applications as needed to support changes to the TGIS information technology or business environments and related business rules. The contractor shall meet with the COR, the PM and/or the Government's Configuration Management (GCM) weekly to discuss current capabilities and prioritize any proposed changes to existing Configuration Control Board (CCB) priorities. These meetings are held in the Functional PM's conference area at Scott Air Force Base (AFB). 1.3.4.1 Task 4 Subtask 1: Sustain Program Capabilities The contractor shall support the Government by managing the TGIS application. Application management and administration activities shall include the following:  Review vulnerabilities, develop implementation plan, and install patches as they become available  Ensure Database Administrator (DBA) accounts are not used for non-DBA activities. Application user accounts provide access to application database objects to perform a particular application function to application user accounts. Privileges granted to application user accounts will follow the principle of least privilege and include only those privileges required to perform the assigned function.  Contractor shall provide support to maintain, implement and enhance servers, databases and applications that includes, but is not limited to, tuning and performing backups, database tuning and backups, system patching, and other information assurance compliance. The contractor shall load all applications and COTS/GOTS software within the test and development environments, and assist the Government's system administrators in loading application, and COTS/GOTS software within the NIPR and SIPR Production, Staging, and development servers. 1.3.4.2 Task 4 Subtask 2: Sustain Existing Documentation The contractor shall sustain, review and update system documentation, to include database, system, and software/application documentation. Documentation shall be updated with each quarterly release or reviewed at least annually if no quarterly updates were required. Documents shall be delivered within 30 days of each release. The contractor shall provide an After Action Report (AAR) within two business days to the TGIS PMO for every system outage, to indicate start and stop time, reason for outage, and solution. The AAR shall follow standard SDDC procedures. A system outage is defined as a user unable to log into the application. For example, DTTS operators are unable to process BOLs or receive DEN notifications, or DCD is unable to track their missions. The Enterprise Change Control Tool (CCT), Serena, is used to capture and automate system outages. Part of its capabilities is to capture the information for an outage and automate its after-action reporting. 1.3.4.3 Task 4 Subtask 3: Disaster Recovery and Contingency Operations 1.3.4.3.1 Maintain Disaster Recovery Environment The contractor shall complete all required application configurations to ensure TGIS is correctly installed and configured to operate at SDDC's alternate site. To ensure operationally correct software, the contractor shall install and configure application software at the alternate site within one (1) business day of installing and configuring the same software on the Production site. 1.3.4.3.2 Disaster Recovery Plan The contractor shall update the TGIS plan for disaster recovery and contingency operations in coordination with the enterprise Disaster Recovery Exercise (DRE) solution and SDDC's MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE if applicable. The plan shall include crisis emergency management (onsite and offsite) (technical and functional); disaster recovery; pre and post emergency operations requirements; and fail-over management.

Page 15 of 48

1.3.4.3.3 Contingency Operations The contractor shall provide support to the Government during contingency or emergency operations IAW approved disaster recovery and contingency operations plans. The contractor shall ensure resources and key personnel are available throughout an emergency IAW the established plan. 1.3.4.4 Task 4 Subtask 4: System Support 1.3.4.4.1 Software and Hardware Maintenance The contractor shall provide support for database, application software, and hardware in the production, training, staging, test, and development environments hosted within the MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE, USTRANSCOM and SDDC for TGIS. Hardware maintenance is only required in the SIPRNET environments. This includes, but not limited to, tuning and performing backups, database tuning, system patching, and other information assurance compliance. The contractor shall load all applications and COTS software within the test and development environments, and assist the Government's system administrators in loading application, and COTS software within the NIPR and SIPR Production, Staging, and Development servers. 1.3.4.4.2 Operational Support The contractor shall provide a support role to the Government for virtually hosted systems in monitoring server and database performance, ensuring connectivity, and complying with all security and certification and accreditation requirements in the staging and production environments. The contractor shall participate in the enterprise change management processes. The contractor shall identify and document current and planned interface, data, software or technical changes. The contractor shall introduce proposed software, interface and technical changes to the contractor's Change management (CM) for promotion and implementation of those changes in the SDDC environment. Oracle and ESRI software are the recommended geospatial and database products. Supporting the TGIS hardware environment requires knowledge of the following:  Configuration skills within an n-Tier enterprise architecture and network topology  Linux based servers  Network Connectivity via NIPRNET, SIPRNET TRANSCOM and the SDDC Local Area Network (LAN)  Microsoft Windows /Windows 7 client workstations The contractor shall test and troubleshoot the TGIS after USTRANSCOM, SDDC and MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE outages/upgrades that typically occur during non-duty hours. The contractor will coordinate with the EIP team if they discover any issues after the outage, and may be required to assist the EIP team to restart some services to bring TGIS back to normal operations. Typical MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE maintenance outages occur on alternating Sundays, usually twice each month. 1.3.4.4.3 Functional User Support The contractor shall provide routine support to TGIS users and TGIS PMO to include analyzing and resolving day-to-day operational issues in the TGIS. The contractor will assist in providing technical configuration knowledge and facilitate knowledge transfer to the Government SMEs to include operating and querying database reports, opening and tracking Technical Assistance Requests (TARs), and assisting with data extraction from TGIS. 1.3.4.4.4. Tier II and III Support The contractor shall provide Tier II and III support during agency operating hours as defined in 4.1, and have a designated on-call person available for all non-operating hours. Additionally, the contractor shall
Page 16 of 48

support the Government by resolving Tier II and Tier III support questions. The contractor will provide input to assist in the enhancement of Help Desk Tier I procedures and operations and will provide feedback to Tier I regarding solution to all tickets that have been escalated in order to permit population of this information into the Help Desk solution database. The contractor shall be responsible for monitoring impacts on systems and the user community, and provide advice, assistance, and recommendations related to impacts that arise during design, development, implementation, testing, fielding, maintenance, and support of TGIS. 1.3.4.4.5 Program Management Support The contractor shall provide operational and technical support to the TGIS PMO. Specific activities shall include:  Providing short-term advisory and technical services to assist Government SMEs with evaluating potential changes to TGIS features and functionality  Planning for integration of new and existing systems with existing architecture to satisfy interface requirements  Providing expert recommendations on problems or validating the approach to resolving functional or technical issues  Preparing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for TGIS  Best practices 1.3.5 Task 5: System Enhancements (OPTIONAL) Task Area 5 is reserved for potential use and cannot be quantified until a future date. The option may be exercised and negotiated during the life of this contract. Automated information systems may require enhancements to the existing capabilities or the development of new capabilities as business requirements and operational needs change. Therefore, the contractor shall develop new solutions for the TGIS functional community, to include custom databases, new/updated features within the DTTS, DCD or TEA applications, and reports, to streamline or supplement SDDC business processes. The contractor PM shall attend weekly meetings, and provide weekly feedback, with the COR and the TGIS Technical and Functional PMO to review the status of all ongoing updates, repairs and changes to existing capabilities and discuss and validate new workflow solutions using the CCB priorities to track. The contractor shall also follow normal configuration management (CM) processes as defined in Task 5. Enhancements to TGIS may include, but are not limited to geospatial capabilities to support functional community and new capabilities based on emerging business needs. Typically, routine (minor) changes include changes to database reports, additional data feeds, mapping layers and the addition of new data elements. Routine changes within the TGIS program average less than 160 man-hours to configure and test. 1.3.6 Task 6: Configuration Management (CM) The contractor shall provide CM support for the TGIS program. The contractor's CM processes must complement the Government's CM (GCM) processes. The TGIS PMO and Contractor's Configuration Manager (CCM) shall work closely with the Government's Enterprise Support Services (ESS) Configuration Manager. 1.3.6.1 Task 6 Subtask 1: CM Planning The CCM shall provide input to the TGIS Configuration Management Plan (CMP) and utilize processes that are consistent with and complement the GCM processes. The TGIS program uses the CMP that defines the Government's current CM processes. The contractor shall provide updates to the CMP to define their developmental CM processes. The CMP includes the following:  Contactor's configuration management processes and procedures
Page 17 of 48

      

Methods, procedures, and controls Baselines (versioning) Change control Configuration status accounting CM audits of total configuration to include hardware, software, and firmware CM Repository (Dimensions will be the delivery repository for source code prior to deployment-Government will provide network connection) CM Process

1.3.6.2 Task 6 Subtask 2: Change Control The contractor shall provide change control for all TGIS baselines and configuration items to include documentation, hardware, COTS software, application, source, and executable code. The Government will provide the contractor with web access to the SDDC Enterprise Change Control Tool (CCT), currently supported by Serena Business Management (SBM) software. The Government's CCT is a tool shared by the TGIS PMO staff and the contractor staff and is programmed to support the TGIS configuration management process within the MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE. The contractor shall comply with all G6 CM standards and processes. The contractor shall evaluate all Change Requests. The contractor shall provide their evaluation upon request. Evaluations include, but shall not be limited to: requirement clarification, requirements analysis, determination if the requirement is feasible, cost (labor hours) estimation, adherence to standards, training impacts, and the consequences of the proposed change. This information shall be provided to the Government for evaluation via the CCT and as a separate document depending upon the amount of information required or provided. This evaluation shall help the PMO staff and the contractor to determine how many, and which, change requests shall be rolled into each release, and will help to determine dependencies within the software development life cycle (SDLC). The contractor shall conduct a physical and functional configuration audit of each code baseline/release delivered to the Government. The Government reserves the right to participate in the audits if desired, and will coordinate Government participation with the contractor. 1.3.6.3 Task 6 Subtask 3: Asset Management The contractor shall provide updates to the Government on hardware and software inventory (as appropriate), warranties, maintenance support agreements, software licensing, and accountability for equipment purchases and upgrades. The Government will maintain and update the enterprise asset database that identifies all existing infrastructure assets, hardware, and COTS software. The contractor shall provide status of baselines, configuration items, and status of all outstanding enhancements and defects. 1.3.6.4 Task 6 Subtask 4: Configuration Control Board (CCB) The CCM shall participate in the Government's CCB. The CCM shall act as the liaison between the Government and contractor to provide any additional information that the CCB requires. The contractor shall participate in a weekly Enterprise CCB meetings. Participation will help ensure contractor activities are focused in the areas the Government deems important, and changes within the Government's MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE are properly vetted across all affected programs. The contractor shall submit enterprise CCB documentation no later than 2 hours prior to CCB. The contractor shall participate in weekly TGIS CCB meetings. The contractor shall analyze new requirements prior to the meeting and provide information to the Government team in order to prioritize program level requirements. This analysis shall be captured in the CCT. The TGIS PM and the CCB will
Page 18 of 48

determine the priority for all changes. The PM usually determines the items to be worked for each release cycle. Multiple capabilities may be addressed in any one release cycle, but periodic, agile, releases may encompass several similar capabilities while working to the final stage of any one particular priority. The contractor shall document the TGIS CCB minutes, and shall deliver the minutes to the TGIS PMO staff within five (5) business days of the meeting. 1.3.6.5 Task 6 Subtask 5: Source Code Configuration Control (Versioning) Configuration control will be utilized for all TGIS code changes. The current versioning system will be continued unless otherwise authorized by the PMO. 1.3.6.5.1 Base-lined Source Code The contractor shall provide installation guidance (guide(s)) to the TGIS PMO for installing base-lined code to the MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE Staging environment. The Contractor will deploy the packaged code within Staging and within Production. TGIS contractor install all releases. The contractor shall store base-lined code within the SDDC's enterprise software for versioning control prior to release to Production. Currently, the enterprise uses Serena Dimensions to store Source Code. The method to identify software versions is documented in the TGIS CMP; all versioning shall be coordinated with the TGIS GCM 1.3.7 Task 7: Information Assurance (IA) The contractor shall work with the Government and Contractor Information Assurance Team as designated within SDDC to provide and share system security data and program information. 1.3.7.1 Task 7 Subtask 1: Information Assurance Training Contract employees shall attend and complete the following security training as prescribed by DOD and SDDC instructions and update the Army Training and Certification Tracking System (ATCTS) to reflect the status. All contractor personnel shall create an account in the ATCTS and complete a profile survey. Based on that survey, the contractor shall complete all appropriate IA training. Annual Training: - DOD IA Awareness Training One-Time Training: - Army Wide Network Security Focus Training (WNSF) - SAFE Home Computing - Personally Identifiable Information (PII) - Portable Electronic Devices and Removable Storage Media - Phishing Awareness Specialized Training, required for privileged access: -Information Assurance Fundamentals (IASO) -DOD 8570 Baseline Certification and Computing Environment Certification for all individuals requiring elevated access to government equipment. (security plus) 1.3.7.2 Task 7 Subtask 2: Accreditation Sustainment The contractor shall provide program specific input for the development of new application security documentation and the updating of existing application security documentation to facilitate the security accreditation of the TGIS, and the EDI and service orientated architecture (SOA) environments IAW the current certification and accreditation guidance (current guidance is DODI 8510.01, Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) - will be migrating to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Risk Management Framework model). The
Page 19 of 48

contractor shall sustain the application and its environment in compliance with the Defense Information Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs). The results of the DISA STIG documentation must always reflect the current status of the system; contractor shall provide monthly updates. The contractor shall be required to provide a number of updates to existing certification and accreditation documentation, such as network diagrams, ports and protocol matrix, application certification package created during release cycle, and other existing documentation. This documentation is required whenever changes are made that may affect the security posture of the application environment. The contractor shall provide a monthly update no later than the last business day of the month, to the PM for the application's DIACAP Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M). POA&Ms are maintained within the Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS). 1.3.7.3 Task 7 Subtask 3: Secure Application Software In coordination with the Government, the contractor shall design, develop and implement secure applications and configurations through applying applicable DOD STIGs, checklists, contractor security guidance, industry best practices (OWASP.org and SANS.org), and applicable contractor product security patches to the development environment. The contractor shall leverage, to the maximum extent possible, automated tools to identify and remediate vulnerabilities or weaknesses in the application design and coding. The Government will provide software security vulnerability scanning and testing tools for the life-cycle development process. Fortify is the tool currently used by the enterprise. Weaknesses are described in the Common Weakness Enumeration / Systems Admin, Audit, Network, Security Institute (CWE/SANS) Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors, and Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top Ten that could be exploited by unauthorized sources. The contractor shall use software development industry standards, best practices and industry agile development best practices for providing the products and services required by the contract in the absence of specific contract requirements. 1.3.7.3.1 Code Scans SDDC IA policies require base-lined source code to be scanned prior to release to the Staging and Production environments. The tool currently used for these software scans is Fortify. The contractor shall provide Fortify scans and summarize the results in a report to the PMO prior to release to staging and production. 1.3.7.3.2 Tracking Security Issues The contractor shall track all security issues uncovered during the entire SDLC, whether a requirement, design, implementation, testing, deployment, or operational issue. The risk associated with each security issue shall be evaluated, documented, and reported to Government as soon as possible after discovery and the contractor shall include this risk along with risk mitigation Course of Actions (COAs) and a recommended COA as part of the WSR referenced in Task 1 Subtask 1. 1.3.7.3.3 Malicious Code Warranty The contractor represents and warrants that the software shall be free from all computer viruses, worms, time-outs, time bombs, back doors, disabling devices and other harmful or malicious code intended to or which may damage, disrupt, inconvenience or permit access to the software user's or another's software, hardware, networks, data or information. 1.3.7.4 Task 7 Subtask 4: Delivery of the Secure Application Software The contractor shall be responsible for the successful installation and implementation of Governmentowned software onto the Government-owned MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE staging, production, and DR environments. The Government will be transitioning to the use of a centralized software installation/implementation team that will perform code scans, builds and installation
Page 20 of 48

of the code into the Government-owned environments. As this team is stood up, the contractor will provide assistance to this team during the verification and build process. The contractor shall use a master build process that reliably builds a complete distribution from source. This process shall include a method for verifying the integrity of the software delivered to the Government by using digitally signed and encrypted media. For all deliveries, the contractor shall provide all source code, installation kits, documentation (including those related to architecture, test design and testing results, and installation procedures), and build procedures and scripts delivered to or maintained for the Government. All executables must be built on a .mil environment. 1.3.7.4.1 Non-Secure Software Delivered to Government If the Government determines, after a security audit (e.g. Security Test & Evaluations (ST&E)), that software delivered under this contract is non-secure, the Government will provide written notice to the contractor of each non-conformity. Software will be "non-secure" under this contract if it contains a programming error listed on the current approved version of the CWE/SANS Top 25 (which can be located at http://www.sans.org/top25) or a web application security flaw listed on the current approved version of the OWASP Top Ten (which can be located at http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project). Such notice constitutes revocation of acceptance of any delivered software. If the Government determines that the software is non-secure, and thus non-conforming, the Government may reject the delivery, provide notice of the nonconformance, and document the contractor's performance record The contractor shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice (Remedy Period) to remedy each non-conformity by modifying/replacing and redelivering the software to the Government; or shall notify the Government within 15 days as to why the remedy cannot be implemented in 30 days, and propose a timeline for correction. If the Government determines, after a security audit following a Remedy Period, that the redelivered software is non-secure, and thus non-conforming, the Government may reject the delivery, provide notice of the non-conformance, and document the contractor's performance record. Alternatively, the Government may accept non-conforming software, receive appropriate consideration (equitable price reduction on a fixed price contract, reimbursement for costs of security audit, reimbursement for costs to correct the non-compliances, etc.), and document the contractor's performance record. 1.3.7.5 Task 7 Subtask 5: Government Application Development Environment 1.3.7.5.1 The Government is in the process of establishing an isolated common development environment and facility for all software development and testing to complement the Government's common integration and testing environment. Therefore, as this becomes available, the contractor shall assist the Government in transferring all software development operations to a virtualized, protected Government facility. The contractor shall assist the Government in transferring all needed materials from the contractor's environment to the Government's environment once it is made operational. After transition, the contractor shall conduct all software development entirely from within this consolidated Government development environment. The contractor shall access remotely from their facilities through a Government approved VPN connection, from isolated dedicated development workstations that comply with Government security guidelines. Upon completion of transfer and operational status of the Government's environment, the contractor shall cease development activities within their environment and remove all sensitive Government materials and data, and provide Government material and data to the Government for disposition. 1.3.7.5.2 In the Government development environment, the programs will be provided basic Virtual Machines (VMs) or Solaris Zones that have been locked down IAW DISA STIGs and fully patched. The contractor shall maintain the servers in a fully patched state.
Page 21 of 48

1.3.7.5.3 Use a dedicated computer The contractor shall use GFE IAW para 4.1 or a Government compliant dedicated computer for remote access to the development environment. This computer shall not be used for other general-purpose computing or non-development activities such as e-mail and web browsing, nor to access any network other than the contractor's development environment, including the contractor's corporate network and the internet. 1.3.7.5.4 Source Code Source code, design artifacts and other materials deemed sensitive by the Government shall be maintained ONLY within the isolated development environment. 1.3.7.5.5 Mitigate unauthorized code access The contractor shall use a source code control system that authenticates access and logs changes to the software baseline. 1.3.7.5.6 Production Systems Production systems cannot be directly connected to development and testing. If `live' data is required in the development and testing environment, it needs to be cleansed so that no sensitive data (an example would be social security numbers) is put on the development and testing environment. 1.3.7.5.7 Access to outside services Access to outside services shall be granted by MISSION ASSURANCE CATEGORY II/III ONCLAVE as needed, on a temporary basis, and by exception only. 1.3.8 Task 8: EGIS Sustainment and Enhancements 1.3.8.1 Task 8 Subtask 1: EGIS Sustainment This includes requirements in support of the fielded EGIS system and subsequent life cycle product support, including maintenance of all hardware and software implemented on the USTRANSCOM SIPRNet Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and SDDC Business Systems NIPRNet Enclave. The contractor shall ensure all network devices are patched and documentation supporting the government DIACAP and ATO are provided in the proper format for inclusion in eMASS. The contractor shall support EGIS baseline capabilities of the database and server technology. The current database is Oracle and server technology is ESRI ArcGIS Server EGIS system sustainment shall include: ˇ Application diagnostics, prognostics and other condition-based maintenance techniques ˇ The contractor shall provide centralized identity and security policy management with CAC/ECA/Industry and consolidated role-based access control. The contractor shall ensure EGIS will provide user-provisioning services including account registration for transportation geospatial data, account administration, and approval/rejection/roles. ˇ Monitoring of key support metrics o Log in history o Layers hit history o Layers exported (KML and shapefile) o Tags applied ˇ Operation of the EGIS software suite o Production and staging software
Page 22 of 48

ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ  



o Service bus, map viewer and services catalog o Sustainment schedule Information Assurance tasks o Implement software patches (bug fixes) o Implement hot-fixes o Implement Operating system security patches and firmware updates o Complete fix actions identified through security scans o Complete hardware maintenance and upgrades (support) required for program compliance and proper operation of the equipment o Scan system hardware/software when notified by Information Assurance Project Manager (IAPM) and EGIS Program Manager; ensure Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) are updated and complete o Provide on-call response capability to system issues during non-standard duty hours as required for EGIS issues o Assist in code releases on unclassified and classified systems; assist EGIS Program Manager with DOD Information Assurance Certification & Accreditation Process (DIACAP) sustainment documentation requirements o Maintain EGIS unclassified and classified equipment inventory and provide information as requested by the government for property book updates o Maintain and staff engineering change requests for new functionality, ensure Configuration Management Documentation is maintained in accordance with DIACAP and the government Configuration Review Board charter o Conduct risk assessment of new functionality requests, and maintain Corporate Resource Information Source (CRIS) database o Advise EGIS Program Manager in design and execution of system architecture, ensure equipment recommendations meet DOD Policy. Maintenance of role-based access for data sharing Enforcement of data and metadata standards to enable the discovery and use of authoritative data across the Command (user matrix) Training and Self-Help Material o Update EGIS Help and Tooltips to reflect code updates and enhancements Update services, user interface tools, and cross-domain information exchange/collaboration services as new feeds and links are added to EGIS Sustain, review and update system documentation, to include database, system, and software/application documentation. o Documentation shall be updated with each quarterly release or reviewed at least annually if no quarterly updates were required. Documents shall be delivered within 30 days of each release. o The contractor shall provide an After Action Report (AAR) within two business days to the COR for every system outage, to indicate start and stop time, reason for outage, and solution. The AAR shall follow standard SDDC procedures. The contractor PM shall attend weekly meetings, and provide weekly feedback, to the COR and the EGIS Technical and Functional teams, review the status of all ongoing updates, repairs and changes to existing capabilities and discuss and validate new workflow solutions.

1.3.8.2 Task 8 Subtask 2: EGIS Development (OPTIONAL) Automated information systems may require enhancements to the existing capabilities or the development of new capabilities as functional requirements and operational needs change. Therefore, the contractor shall develop new solutions for the EGIS functional community, to include custom databases, new/updated features within the Map viewer or catalog applications, and reports, to streamline or

Page 23 of 48

supplement USTC processes. The contractor shall also follow normal configuration management (CM) processes as defined in Task 6. The contractor shall design, develop, test, document, train, deliver, and deploy new and/or modified EGIS capabilities as required by the COR. Additional capabilities typically require 200 to 360 hours of analysis and development support. On average, EGIS will add four (4) capabilities to the EGIS service annually. 1.3.8.3 Task 8 Subtask 3: Geospatial Support (OPTIONAL) This task is reserved for potential use at a future date. The option may be exercised during the life of the contract. Geospatial support is defined as a subject matter expert in the field of Geographic Information Systems and analysis. Personnel associated with this subtask in this PWS require TOP SECRET clearance. Personnel requested through exercise of this subtask are expected to operate independently onsite supporting activities outlined below: GIS Support for exercise support, mission support and response:  Enhance exercise planning, mission activities and response efforts by providing geospatial mapping of key transportation infrastructures and related information  Create infrastructure maps to answer requests for information, provide situational awareness, and include in USTRANSCOM Battle Update Briefings for exercises and major USTRANSCOM response events, as determined by the USTRANSCOM Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP) Manager  Post key products to the Enterprise GIS Catalog, Distribute.mil, SharePoint, or other collaborative mediums as directed  Create additional GIS tools for potential relevance to exercises, mission support and response initiatives, and conduct geospatial analysis as needed GIS Products Development, Assessment and Maintenance details:
Development, maintenance, and support of GIS data sets to support transportation infrastructure and deployment and distribution analysis. This on-site support will require ESRI ArcGIS Enterprise Administration Associate certification. The on-site support will be required to maintain IAT Level II level certification as described in DOD 8570.01-M. One of the following baseline security certifications is required along with a computer environment certification. GSEC SCNP Security+ SSCP CISA CISSP (or Associate) GCIH GSE SCNA

In addition, Geographic Information Systems Professional (GISP) Certification is preferred. This individual will work closely with engineering and analysis personnel and National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA) representatives in the acquisition, manipulation, and analysis of geospatial data and imagery. The contractor must possess the ability to analyze transportation infrastructure and imagery and make recommendations on the best options for deployments and distribution of assets. This requirement
Page 24 of 48

also supports installation and management of ESRI's ArcGIS Server and SDE SQL databases as well as perform ESRI software updates as required in both the NIPRNET and SIPRNET environments. Administration and management of all aspects of ArcGIS servers to include creating services and geoprocessing capabilities specific to transportation data is required. Knowledge of Python scripting to support ArcGIS customized analysis tools and model builder to streamline transportation data manipulations as well as maintain spatial indexes and ArcSDE data supporting infrastructure and deployment and distribution analysis is required. Support requires extensive knowledge of satellite imagery to include data extraction, orthorectification and pan-sharpening. Experience with ERDAS Imagine or SOCET GXP is desired. Knowledge of ESRI's Image extension Server tool as well as ESRI's defense mapping extensions which include workflow manager and production toolset is required. Frequent extraction and analysis of terrain is required supporting transportation analysis. Provides raster modeling support by using ArcGIS raster tools to discover least cost paths and perform other similar analysis. Knowledge of java script and flex viewer mapping software development is required to support the update and sharing of our GIS datasets as well as development of customized tools and widgets for these web pages. The ability to develop and customize geoprocessing tools is required. Knowledge of GIS input datasets for the AMP (Analysis of Mobility Platform) model is preferred. Knowledge of port infrastructure including berths, terminals, cranes, railheads and anchorages for digitizing and attributing GIS features of a Port or military installation is required. 2. DELIVERABLES AND SERVICE DELIVERY SUMMARY (SDS) 2.1 Deliverables All references to days are defined as calendar days unless otherwise specified. All deliverables shall be submitted to the COR in electronic format in Microsoft Office 2000 or other compatible software, and on compact discs for files too large to be e-mailed. All deliverables shall meet professional standards and meet the requirements set forth in contractual documentation. The deliverables are not separately priced, but are included in the monthly price. PWS Para Deliverable Title Format Number Delivery Date

1.3.1.1

Monthly Status Report

Microsoft Office Products

One soft copy(emailed)

MSR submitted NLT the 5th of each month.

1.3.1.3

Task Order Management Plan

Microsoft Office Products

One soft copy(emailed)

Draft - within fifteen (15) days of task order award Final - NLT five (5) days after draft approval.

1.3.1.4

Employment Status Report

Microsoft Office Products

One soft copy (e-mailed)

Within fifteen (30) days of task order award. Subsequent ­ as employment changes occur.

Page 25 of 48

1.3.1.5

Contractor Management Report (CMR)

31 Oct of each year

1.3.3.1

Installed, executable Software Releases in support of government approved SCRs

1.3.3.2

Installed, executable Software Releases in support of government approved SCRs

1.3.3.3

Installed, executable Software Releases in support of government approved SCRs

1.3.3.4

Installed, executable Software Releases in support of government approved SCRs

Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities

Continual Requirement

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

Continual Requirement

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

Continual Requirement

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

Continual Requirement

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

Page 26 of 48

1.3.3.5

Installed, executable Software Releases in support of government approved SCRs

1.3.3.6

Test and evaluation report

1.3.3.7

Training and self-help material

Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products. Update System help and Tooltips in the application Microsoft Office Products or PDF Operational software within the designated environment, supporting approved tasks to deliver application capabilities Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products PowerPoint or PDF

Continual Requirement

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

One soft copy (e-mailed)

Within one day of delivery of software release to Government for testing Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. Final ­ provided within five (5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production

One soft copy (e-mailed)

1.3.3.8

System Management Support

Multiple drafts provided throughout code design. One soft copy Final ­ provided within five emailed and/or (5) days of Government WebEx acceptance and prior to implementation in production.

1.3.4.1

Functional Sustainment

Continual Requirement

13.4.2

Sustain system documentation Application Contingency Plan and Disaster recovery exercise results Enhancements/ Functionality Screenshots

One soft copy (e-mailed) One soft copy (e-mailed)

Quarterly - within thirty (30) days of each release.

1.3.4.3.2

Semi-annually

1.3.5

One soft copy Multiple drafts provided emailed and/or throughout code design. WebEx Final ­ provided within five

Page 27 of 48

(5) days of Government acceptance and prior to implementation in production. 1.3.6.1 Configuration management plan System CCB minutes (if applicable) Application STIG Status Reports Additional documentation as required by the DIACAP/RMF and DIARMF processes. PO&AM Code Scans Tracking Security Issues Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products Microsoft Office Products One soft copy (e-mailed) One soft copy (e-mailed) Monthly Updated quarterly by first Tuesday of the quarter Five (2) business days after meeting

1.3.6.4

1.3.8.2

1.3.7.2

1.3.7.2 1.3.7.3.1 1.3.7.3.2

Microsoft products Fortify Scans Microsoft Products One soft copy (e-mailed)

No later than last business day of each month Prior to release in staging and production As soon as possible, no later than one day after discovery

Task

Data Item

CDRL Deliveable Title

Delivery Schedule Draft: No later than ninety (90) calendar days after Option Period 1 start date and each subsequent period of performance Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments Draft: No later than ninety (90) calendar days after Option Period 1 start date and each subsequent period of performance Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments Draft: No later than 180 calendars days after Option Period 1 start date Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.a

A001

Systems Engineering Management Plan (SEMP)

1.3.2.1.b

A002

Software Development Plan (SDP)

1.3.2.1.c

A012

DODAF Architecture Views

Page 28 of 48

1.3.2.1.1. d

A009

IT business process models

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.1. d

A009

Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM)

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. d

A009

Updated IT business process models

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. d

A003

Release-level Software Design Description (SDD)

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. d

A009

Design documentation updates to be made in the DBDD

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. e

A012

New and Updated DODAF Architecture Views

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. f

A010

Updated Interface Documents (e.g., IDD, IRS, ICA)

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

Page 29 of 48

1.3.2.1.2. f

A011

New IRS

Draft: IAW Government-approved project schedule Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments Draft: No later than five (5) business days after delivery of the software release into the Test environment for each software release that changes the User Role Matrix. Final: No later than five (5) business days following receipt of Government comments. Draft: No later than five (5) business days after delivery of the software release into the Test environment for each software release that changes the System Generated Emails. Final: No later than five (5) business days following receipt of Government comments. Draft: No later than fifteen (15) business days prior to each software development release into the Test environment Final: No later than five (5) business days following receipt of Government comments. Draft: No later than forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the end of each period of performance. Final: No later than ten (10) calendar days after receipt of Government comments Draft: No later than forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the end of each period of performance. Final: No later than ten (10) calendar days after receipt of Government comments Draft: No later than eight (8) business days after the end of each month starting with NTS software release delivery into the Production environment. Final: No later than five (5) business days after receipt of Government comments

1.3.2.1.2. g

A010

User Role Matrix

1.3.2.1.2. h

A010

System Generated Emails

1.3.2.1.3. b

A009

Updated RTM including traceability to software modules

1.3.2.1.3. c

A003

Program-level Software Design Description (SDD)

1.3.2.1.3. d

A004

Database Design Description (DBDD)

1.3.2.1.3. f

A009

Process Monitoring Report for business processes automated using the BPM approach

Page 30 of 48

2.2 Service Delivery Summary (SDS) The SDS represents the most important contract objectives that, when met, shall ensure contract performance is satisfactory. Although not all PWS requirements are listed in the SDS, the Contractor shall comply with all requirements in the PWS. Performance Requirement Deliverables for Production of Documentation Deliverables for Sustainment and Operations Deliverables for Enhancements Surveillance Method 100% Inspection Performance Threshold Deliverables are delivered 95% of minor changes. Deliverables are delivered 95% of minor changes. Deliverables are delivered 95% of minor changes. timely, accepted as the time with only timely, accepted as the time with only timely, accepted as the time with only

100% Inspection

100% Inspection

3. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AND INFORMATION 3.1 Remote Access Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) Contractor Furnished Equipment (CFE) shall not be employed for remote access to a Government network. All GFE will be maintained IAW FAR 52.245-1, Government Property, and Army Regulation 25-2, Para 4-5. Personnel requiring access to the SDDC network will be provided GFE for use within the requirements of this PWS. Developers or other privileged users with specialized software requirements will be granted local admin rights, based on mission requirement for a limited period of time to the assigned laptop/workstation and incorporate Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) compliance patch management, Information Assurance and Anti-Virus software. Any changes to the GFE configuration and/or software baseline will be coordinated through the COR for approval. Upon attempting to access the SDDC network using a government furnished client VPN, critical update checks will be completed to ensure compliance with DOD Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA) and RETINA scans. Patches shall be applied no later than 30 days following IAVA suspense date. Users with a standard software load, patches will be applied immediately. Equipment and GFE maintenance schedule will be delivered to user on an agreed upon date. The equipment shall be returned to the Government at the completion of this contract or as requested by the Government. Equipment shall be returned in the same condition that it was provided with reasonable or usual wear. The contractor shall coordinate the receipt and return of all GFE with the COR. Information services available on the Government furnished computers shall only be used for official business only. Examples of information services include SDDC network, Internet, Intranet and electronic mail. Access to Government information services is granted as a privilege and use of such services constitutes consent to monitoring. Information services use will be monitored to ensure the protection of SDDC networks and information and to verify and enforce compliance with this contractual requirement. In the event contractor personnel use Government furnished computers and/or information services for other than official business, the contractor shall be required to provide the Government with monetary
Page 31 of 48

consideration. In addition, if requested by the CO, the contractor shall be required to replace the individual who misused the Government furnished computers and/or information services within 10 working days. The following are examples of misuse of information services:           Illegal, fraudulent, or malicious activities. Partisan political activity, political or religious lobbying or advocacy, or activities on behalf of organizations having no affiliation with SDDC or DOD. Activities whose purposes are for personal or commercial financial gain. These activities may include chain letters, solicitation of business or services, sales of personal property. Unauthorized fundraising or similar activities, whether for commercial, personal, or charitable purposes. Accessing, storing, processing, displaying, or distributing offensive or obscene material such as pornography and hate literature. Annoying or harassing another person, e.g., by sending or displaying uninvited e-mail of a personal nature or by using lewd or offensive language in an e-mail message. Using another person's account or identity without his or her explicit permission, e.g., by forging e-mail. Viewing, damaging, or deleting files or communications belonging to others without appropriate authorization or permission. Permitting any unauthorized person to access a SDDC or DOD owned system. Modifying or altering the operating systems or system configuration (including the installation of software) without obtaining written authorization from the CO.

The template for tracking GFE is provided in Appendix D. The COR will maintain the GFE list. The contractor shall sign a hand receipt to accept responsibility of GFE. 3.2 Government Furnished Information (GFI) The Government shall provide the contractor with information for various purposes to include location data for inclusion in the TGIS capability. The GFI provided will remain the property of the Government and will not be released to others without prior approval of the TGIS COR. 4.0 GENERAL INFORMATION 4.1 Place of Performance Services will be performed at Scott AFB, IL, and if required by the Government, at the contractor's facility. Contractor personnel, as specified by the Government, shall be located at SDDC facilities where up to 6 seats are provided. Remaining full time employees (FTE) shall be located at a contractor off-base facility. On occasion, contractors who normally work at contractor facilities shall attend meetings at SDDC, Scott AFB, IL. Contractor personnel are expected to conform to agency operating hours (0730 ­ 1700 CT) unless otherwise agreed upon by the COR. Work will generally consist of 40-hour workweek, Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays. Personnel shall support short notice adjustments to their daily work hours. Personnel shall have a valid Secret or interim Secret clearance before entry. 4.2 Period of Performance Period of Performance for the Base Period is date of award through 30 September 2015. Period of Performance for the First Option Period is 1 October 2015 through 30 September 2016. Period of Performance for the Second Option Period is 1 October 2016 through 30 September 2017. Period of Performance for the Third Option Period is 1 October 2017 through 30 September 2018. Period of Performance for the Fourth Option Period is 1 October 2018 through 30 September 2019.

Page 32 of 48

4.3 Cooperation with Other Contractors and Government Personnel The contractor shall cooperate with other contractors and Government personnel performing work for SDDC. The contractor shall be willing to adjust scheduling and performance to accommodate additional support if required by contract modification. The contractor shall avoid interfering with the performance of work by other contractors or Government employees while not compromising health, safety or security. Any disagreement or cause of delay shall be brought immediately to the attention of the Contracting Officer and COR. 4.4 Contractor Employee Qualifications and Certifications The contractor shall provide personnel with expertise in the subject matter areas to comply with the terms of this requirement. The contractor personnel shall be capable of working independently. At no additional expense to the Government, the contractor shall ensure that personnel assigned to this requirement retain appropriate certifications and remain current in the technical skills required to support and execute this task. New employees are required to attend mandatory SDDC security briefings, to complete mandatory information assurance training, and to complete a number of forms to work on the SDDC network. The contractor must work with the COR to complete these activities as soon as possible in order to be an effective member of the SDDC team. 4.5 Quality Assurance The contractor shall support Government agency reviews and audits of all services and support provided under this PWS. The contractor shall be prepared to support Quality Assurance reviews conducted by the Government. The Government reserves the right to authorize an independent verification and validation of the contractor's procedures, methods, data, equipment, and other services provided at any time during the performance of this PWS.

4.6 Travel and ODCs Performance under this contract may require Contractor travel within the Continental United States. The contract period travel requirements are listed below. The Government will reimburse the Contractor for travel expenses subject to FAR 31.205-46 Travel Costs and JTR. The Government will not pay profit on travel, but will allow the contractor to charge G&A for travel approved under this paragraph. All Contractor travel shall be coordinated with and validated by the primary or alternate COR prior to incurring travel expenses. The Contractor shall identify personnel who will be traveling in sufficient time to obtain the lowest possible rates for airfare, rental car and lodging. For long distance travel, a minimum of seven (7) calendar days advance notice from the travel commencement date is required unless mission requirements dictate otherwise. The travel request shall be in writing and contain the dates, location, and estimated travel costs. Contractor invoices (along with associated receipts) shall support all travel reimbursement requests. Actual travel costs will be reported to the COR by person, by trip within five (5) business days of completion of travel. The Government will not reimburse local travel and related expenses to the Contractor for daily travel to or from Scott AFB or the Contractor's facility. Location Scott AFB, IL Number of Trips Per Period of Performance 2 Number of Days 4 Number of People 2

Prior to incurring costs, the contractor shall coordinate expenditure of travel or ODC funds with the COR. The Government will reimburse data services fees incurred in the performance of the PWS for data services approved by the Government.

Page 33 of 48

5.0 SECURITY (PHYSICAL, PERSONNEL, INFORMATION, INDUSTRIAL, OPERATIONS, ANTITERRORISM, and FORCE PROTECTION) REQUIREMENTS 5.1 General Security Information The overall classification of work associated with this PWS is SECRET. Tasks associated with the deliverables in this PWS require SECRET clearance eligibility and access for all contract employees associated. All classified material handled by the contract members will be safeguarded and derivatively classified IAW Executive Order (EO) 13526 and per SDDC Regulation 380-5 (Information Security Page 23 of 35 Regulation) and all applicable Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Classification Guides. A completed/signed DD 254 is attached to this PWS for classification and subsequent security requirements. 5.2 Personnel Clearance (PCL) / Investigation Requirements Personnel working this contract will require a favorably completed National Agency Check with Local Credit (NACLC), resulting in SECRET eligibility (or higher) when adjudicated by the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO). Interim Secret clearance eligibility is accepted provided it was granted by DISCO and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has opened the investigation. The Facility Security Officer (FSO) is responsible for ensuring NACLC investigations are submitted to DISCO and a minimum of Interim SECRET granted prior to contract start day. This requirement mandates the contractor have a minimum Facility Clearance Level (FCL) at the SECRET (or higher) level. 5.3 Company Facility Clearance (FCL) The awarded contract company (and subcontract companies) must have a valid FCL at the SECRET level or higher. Interim Secret FCL's are acceptable provided they are not expired prior to final adjudication by Defense Security Service (DSS). FCL procedures and security guidelines for adjudicative requirements are outlined in DOD 5220.22-M, DOD 5200.22-R and AR 380-67. FCL is required upon contract start date. 5.4 Clearance / Investigation Validation Checks Upon award of this contract, the names and social security numbers of all contract employees supporting this contract will be submitted to SDDC G-2 for vetting in the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) to ensure investigative requirements have been obtained before contract start date. This requirement will be completed prior to the COR/Trusted Agent (TA) submitting contract employees for their Common Access Card (CAC) in the DOD Trusted Associate Sponsorship System (TASS). If contract member does not have the appropriate investigative requirement, the contract employee will be denied the ability to work in support of this contract and will not be loaded in TASS. 5.5 Common Access Card (CAC) Issuance Upon notification by the SDDC G2 Industrial Security Program Manager that contractor personnel meet the required investigative levels, personnel will be loaded in TASS with an expiration date on their CAC for the current period of performance and up to 3 years, if the contract is fully funded. 5.6 Scott AFB/USTRANSCOM/HQ SDDC Physical Access Only personnel assigned physically on Scott AFB at least 4 days a week will be issued an AF Fm 1199 (line badge) unless an exception to policy is approved by the 375 SFS through SDDC G-2. 5.7 Visit Authorization Visit(s) by contract personnel not permanently assigned on Scott AFB will require an electronic visit request in JPAS to Security Management Office (SMO) Code: USTC-SDDC.
Page 34 of 48

5.7.1 Permanently assigned contractors at Scott AFB will require electronic JPAS visit requests submitted to SMO Code: SSC-CONT, POC block is the contract number and phone number block will include COR phone number and last name. 5.8 In/Out-Processing Upon termination or completion of this contract, the contractor employee will surrender all Government supplies, materials, classified material and equipment to the COR. In addition, the contractors' CACs and any security badges issued will be turned into the SDDC/USTRANSCOM SSC at SAFB, IL. Off-site contractors will return the CAC to the COR. This will be accomplished on the last day of the contract or upon any termination/reassignment of a contract employee. CORs who obtain CAC and security badges due to short notice terminations or release of contract employees will revoke access in CVS and turn the CAC and security badge into the SSC for final processing/out-processing. All on-site contract personnel will complete an in/out-processing checklist supplied by the COR/CO or SDDC G1/4. 5.9 Security briefing/debriefing statement (Standard Form (SF) 312) SF 312 will be completed upon start/completion of the contract if assigned to SDDC at SAFB, IL. This will be completed/executed by the SDDC/USTRANSCOM SSC during in and out-processing. 5.10 Security Training Contractor employees assigned to HQ SDDC at SAFB shall attend/complete the following training within 30 days of contract start as prescribed by DOD, Army and SDDC Regulations: Employee Initial Security Briefing, Operations Security (OPSEC), Threat Awareness and Reporting Program (TARP), DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Level 1 Training, Active Shooter and Workplace Violence Training. This also includes IA training required for specific computing platforms and applications. All Security training, to include Annual Security Awareness Training, is required annually. 5.10.1 Initial Security and AT Level I Training will be provided by SDDC G2 and attendance is required within the first 10 days of contract start day at SAFB. All other training can be accessed on the SDDC Portal Training site. Contractor personnel assigned elsewhere shall attend security training established by their respective Government security offices and/or installations. 5.10.2 Contractor employees will report training completion to the COR. 5.11 Security Permissions on DOD Systems The contractor shall ensure the roles/privileges assigned to contract employees on the Government computing platforms are limited to the roles/privileges essential to that individual's performance of his/her assignments. These roles/privileges can be limited or revoked by the Government for any reason. 5.12 Security Compliance / Deviations If the Government notifies the contractor that the employment or the continued employment of any contractor employee is prejudicial to the interests or endangers the security of the United States of America, that person shall be removed and barred from the worksite. 5.12.1 Removal of Employees Circumstances surrounding the removal of contract employees include security deviations/incidents and credible derogatory information received or uncovered on contract members during the course of the contractual period. The contract company shall make any changes necessary in the appointment(s). 5.12.2 Threat Awareness Contracting officers or contracting officer representatives will ensure Army contractors with security
Page 35 of 48

clearances comply with threat awareness and reporting requirements specified in AR 381-12. Additionally, persons employed by Army contractors will report threat-related incidents, behavioral indicators, and other matters of Counter-Intelligence (CI) interest specified in AR 381-12, chapter 3, to the Facility Security Officer, the nearest military CI Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or the Defense Security Service. 5.12.3 Contractor employees will comply with base access and control procedures. 5.12.4 Operations Security (OPSEC) All information furnished to the Contractor is to be used FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO). The Contractor is required to be aware of OPSEC requirements from SDDC. Information determined as FOUO or included as part of the OPSEC Critical Information List (CIL) is not to be released to the public. 5.13 FPCON Impact on Work Levels (US Installation Only) Contractors working on base are not considered mission essential in this PWS; therefore, access to the installation during increased force protection condition (FPCON) CHARLIE and DELTA is not authorized. 5.14 Security Regulation Compliance The contractor will be required to comply with all security regulations and directives as identified herein, and other security requirements in this contract. The contractor shall not divulge any financial, planning, programming, or budgeting information without the express consent of the Government as outlined in Operational Security (OPSEC) and Information Security regulations. 5.15 Security Regulation Guidance Department of Defense (DOD): 2000.12 (DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Program) 2000.16 (DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards) 5200.01-M Volume 1-4 (DOD Information Security Program) 5200.2-R (DOD Personnel Security Program) 5200.08-R (DOD Physical Security Program) 5220.22-R (National Industrial Security Program) 8500.1 (Information Assurance (IA)) 8500.2 (Information Assurance (IA) Implementation) DOD regulations found at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html Army: AR 25-2 (Information Assurance) AR 190-13 (Physical Security Program) AR 380-5 (Department of the Army Information Security Program) AR 380-20 (Restricted Areas) AR 380-49 (Industrial Security Program) AR 380-67 (Personnel Security Program) AR 381-12 (Threat Awareness and Reporting Program) AR 525-13 (Antiterrorism) AR 530-1 (Operations Security) Army regulations found at http://armypubs.army.mil/ SDDC: SDDC Regulation 190-13 (SDDC Physical Security Program) SDDC Regulation 380-2 (SDDC Operations Security Program)
Page 36 of 48

SDDC Regulation 380-5 (SDDC Information Security Program) Forms: DD 254, DOD, Contract Security Classification Specification DOD forms found at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html HQ SDDC Industrial Security Point of Contact: Standa "Tony" Cameron 1 Soldier Way SDDC G-2 SAFB, IL. 62225 Commercial: 618-220-6558 Email at standa.t.cameron.civ@mail.mil HQ SDDC G2 Approval: Tony Cameron, 31 May 2013 HQ SDDC G2 Tracking #: HQSDDCG2-015-13 6.0 CYBER SECURITY 6.1. Developer Environment The contractor development environment shall be physically and logically isolated from other networks, to include its enterprise unclassified network. Security guidelines for the environment must be documented and the security program implemented shall address the security controls described in NIST Special Publication 800-53 (current version), Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations (http://csrc.mist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html). 6.2. System Design, Information System Security Engineering Principles; DOD, NIST Directives The contractor shall ensure that information system security engineering is employed during any/all changes to the system architecture. Such modifications will be made in compliance with all analogous or interfacing Information Assurance component(s) of the Global Information Grid (GIG) Architecture and will be designed to make maximum use of the DOD enterprise Information Assurance capabilities and services. As part of the contractor's change control process, the contractor shall ensure participation by an Information System Security Engineer or a qualified Information Assurance representative to evaluate the impact of each change on security. The contractor shall document the results of this evaluation. 6.3. DOD Information Assurance Certification Accreditation Process Requirements The contractor shall be responsible for the development of system security documentation to facilitate the security accreditation of the system according to DODI 8510.01 DIACAP (Moving to RMF) and the associated Mission Assurance Category (MAC) and Confidentiality Level (CL) as defined in DOD Instruction 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation (current version). The contractor shall update the DOD Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS) system as required and provide supporting IA documentation for upload as artifacts in eMASS. For TGIS, the MAC will be Level II and the CL will be Sensitive. 6.4. Software Assurance and Security Engineering Practices In coordination with the Government, the contractor shall design, develop and implement secure applications and configurations through applying applicable DOD STIGs, checklists, vendor security guidance, industry best practices, and applicable vendor product security patches. The contractor shall ensure applications are in compliance with DOD Instruction 8500.2 Information Assurance Implementation (current version) and DODI 8551.1 Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM) (current version). The contractor shall leverage, to the maximum extent possible, automated tools to identify and remediate vulnerabilities or weaknesses in the application design/coding, such as those described in Common Weakness Enumeration/System Administration, Networking, and Security Institute
Page 37 of 48

(CWE/SANS) TOP 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors and Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top Ten, that could be exploited by unauthorized sources. The Information System Security Engineer shall participate in Government and contractor formal and informal design reviews to identify potential security weaknesses, deficiencies, and/or vulnerabilities in the design. The Information System Security Engineer shall also ensure appropriate security requirements are included as part of the requirements traceability matrix and are evaluated as part of the security test and evaluation (ST&E). As part of the contractor's change control process, the contractor shall ensure participation by the Information System Security Engineer or a qualified Information Assurance representative to evaluate the impact of each change on security. The contractor shall document the results of this evaluation. 6.5 Non-Secure Software

6.6. Malicious Code Warranty The contractor represents and warrants that the software shall be free from all computer viruses, worms, time-outs, time bombs, back doors, disabling devices and other harmful or malicious code intended to or which may damage, disrupt, inconvenience or permit access to the software user's or another's software, hardware, networks, data or information. 6.7. Source Code Configuration Control (Versioning) The contractor shall utilize a strict version control process for software development and provide two copies of source code for all software versions developed under this contract. The source code will be provided on optical removable media (burned for read only) or another mutually agreed type of media. 7.0 CONTRACT TRANSITION The purpose of this section is to address the minimum requirements for transition of the contract from the incumbent (exiting) contractor to the succeeding contractor. 7.1 Incoming Contractor Transition 7.1.1 Transition Planning The incoming contractor shall provide the Government with a transition plan that provides for receiving all open work and associated materials and assets in the possession of the Government, which may be related to ongoing work. 7.1.2 Sufficient Personnel The Contractor shall have at least 50 percent (50%) of all necessary personnel and the capability to support each task at time of award. The Contractor shall have 100 percent (100%) of personnel available fifteen (15) calendar days after award. The contractor shall ensure that personnel start dates do not impair performance to meet all deliverables. 7.1.3 Receipt of Materials The incoming contractor and the Government shall jointly inventory all Government owned intellectual and real property provided for the performance of work within this contract. Receipt of materials to begin work will occur no later than ten (10) days after the beginning of the contract. The incoming contractor must have a secure facility that can host the development and testing hardware and software. This facility and the incoming contractor must be ready to receive government-owned software no later than ten (10) days after the contract start date. The development and test suite must be available to the incoming
Page 38 of 48

contract team no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after contract start date. 7.2 Incumbent Contractor Transition 7.2.1 Transition Planning The incumbent contractor shall provide the Government with a transition plan that provides for conveying all open work and associated materials and assets in their possession to the Government. 7.2.2 Continuity of Service The contractor shall ensure the continuity of service while implementing its transition plan for all affected activities to preclude any adverse impact on the mission. 7.2.3 Listing of Open Service Requests The incumbent contractor shall provide the COR a complete listing of all open service requests indicating the status of completion and any performance issues associated with them. The report is due no later than 45 days prior to the contract scheduled end date. 7.2.4 Transfer of Materials The incumbent contractor shall transfer to the Government all intellectual and real property belonging to the Government which was generated, purchased on behalf of, or provided by the Government for the performance of the work within this contract. For the TGIS program, transfer of materials will include all Government-furnished hardware and software that supports the development and test environment. Actual `shutdown' at the incumbent contractor's site shall be no earlier than 15 September. 7.2.5 Sufficient Personnel The incumbent contractor shall provide a sufficient number of personnel to ensure effective transfer of all work in progress so as not to impact mission accomplishment.

Page 39 of 48

APPENDIX A TERMS AND DEFINITIONS TERM ACAT AFB AIT AMP ATCTS BSE CAC CCB CCE CCM CCT CFE CI CIL CIP CM CMP CMR CO COAs COOP COP COR COTS CRIS CSV CVS CVV DBA DBDD DCD DCS DD DDOC DIACAP DISA DISCO DISDI DISN DMZ DOD DODAF DOT DPO DSS DEFINITION Acquisition Category Air Force Base Automated Identification Technology Analysis of Mobility Platform Training and Certification Tracking System Business System Enclave Common Access Card Configuration Control Board Common Computing Environment Contractor's Configuration Manager Change Control Tool Contractor Furnished Equipment Counter-Intelligence Critical Information List Critical Infrastructure Program Configuration Management Configuration Management Plan Contractor Management Report Contracting Officer Course of Actions Continuity of Operations Common Operational Picture Contracting Officer's Representative Commercial of the Shelf Corporate Resource Information Source Corporate Service Vision Contractor Verification System Commercial Vessel Visibility Database Administrator Database Design Description Defense Courier Division Defense Courier Service Design Document Deployment and Distribution Operations Center Defense Information Assurance Certification Accreditation Process Defense Information Agency Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office Defense Installations Spatial Data Infrastructure Defense Information Switched Network Demilitarized Zone Department of Defense Department of Defense Air Force Department of Transportation Distribution Process Owner Defense Security Service
Page 40 of 48

DTED DTM DTOD DTS DTTS E&IT EDI EDI EGIS ELIST eMASS ESB ESRI ESS FAR FCL FPCON FRA FSO FTE FTR GCM GCM GFE GFI GFP GIG GIS GIS HPMS HSIP IASO ICD IDD IDE IGC IPR IR IRS ISPs IT ITS ITV JCIDS JDDA JDDA-E JDDE JPAS KML LIDAR MIDB

Digital Topographic Elevation Data Digital Terrain Map Defense Table of Distances Defense Transportation System Defense Transportation Tracking Service Electronic and Information Technology Electronic Data Interchange Electronic Data Interchange Enterprise Geospatial Information System Enhanced Logistics Intratheater Support tool Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service Enterprise Service Bus Environmental Systems Research Institute Enterprise Support Services Federal Acquisition Regulation Facility Clearance Level Force Protection Condition Federal Railroad Administration Facility Security Officer Full Time Employees Federal Travel Regulation Government's Configuration Management Government's Configuration Management Government Furnished Equipment Government Furnished Information Government-Furnished Property Global Information Grid Geospatial Information Systems Geographic Information System Highway Performance Monitoring System Homeland Security Infrastructure Program Information Assurance Fundamentals Interface Control Agreement Interface Design Description Integrated Data Environment Integrated Graphics In Progress Review Interface Requirements Interface Requirements Specifiction Information Support Plans Information technology Information Tool Suite In Transit Visibility Joint Capability Integration and Development System Joint Deployment and Distribution Architecture Joint Deployment and Distribution Architecture-Enhanced Joint Deployment Distribution Enterprise Joint Personnel Adjudication System Keyhole Markup Language Laser Imaging Detection and Ranging Modernized Integrated Data Base
Page 41 of 48

MLC MSR MTS RF NACI NACLC NBI NDN NGA NIPR NIST OPM OPSEC PIDB PMO POA&M PPP PWS RMF RTM SBM SDDC SDDCTEA SDE SDLC SDP SDS SEMP SID SIPR SMS SOA SOP ST&E STIG T&E TAR TARP TASS TDES TEA TISPs TO TOMP TRANSFARS USACE USTRANSCOM VMs WNSF XML

Military Load Classification Monthly Status Report Mobile Terminal Site Radio Frequency National Agency Check Inquiry National Agency Check with Local Credit National Bridge Inventory Northern Distribution Network National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router National Institute of Standards and Technology Office of Personnel Management Operations Security Port and Installation Database Program Management Office Plan of Action and Milestones Power Projection Platform Performance Work Statement Risk Management Framework Requirements Traceability Matrix Serena Business Management Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Transportation Engineering Agency Software Development Environment Software Development Life Cycle Software Development Plan Service Delivery Summary Systems Engineering Management Plan SDDC Transportation Infrastructure Data team Secure Internet Protocol Router Single Mobility System Service Orientated Architecture Standard Operating Procedure Security Test & Evaluations Security Technical Implementation Guide Test and Evaluation Technical Assistance Request Awareness and Reporting Program Trusted Associate Sponsorship System Triple Data Encryption Standard Transportation Engineering Agency Tailored ISPs Task Order Task Order Management Plan Transportation FAR Supplement US Army Corp of Engineers United States Transportation Command Virtual Machines Wide Network Security Focus Training Extensible Markup Language

Page 42 of 48

APPENDIX B NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT AND AGREEMENT TO DISCLOSE POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST FOR CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES ON USTRANSCOM CONTRACTS NOTE: This Agreement is a standard agreement designed for use by contractor (including sub-contractor) employees assigned to work on USTRANSCOM contracts. Its use is designed to protect non-public Government information from disclosure, identify potential conflicts of interest, and prevent violations of federal statutes/regulations. The restrictions contained in this agreement also serve contractors by promoting compliant behavior that keeps contractors eligible to compete for Government contracts. In addition to the potential impact on future business opportunities, failure to abide by this agreement could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties specified by statute or regulation. 1. I, , currently an employee of , hereby agree to the terms and conditions set forth below. 2. I understand that I may have access to confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information (as defined by FAR 3.104-1), and/or source selection information (as defined by FAR 2.101) either for contract performance, as a result of working in a USTRANSCOM facility, or of working near USTRANSCOM personnel, contractors, visitors, etc. I fully understand that such information is sensitive and must be protected in accordance with 41 US Code Section 423 and FAR SubPart 3.1. 3. In the course of performing under contract/order # or some other contract or sub-contract for USTRANSCOM, I agree to: a) Use only for Government purpose any and all confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information, and/or source selection sensitive information to which I am given access. I agree not to disclose "non-public information" by any means (in whole or in part, alone or in combination with other information, directly, indirectly, or derivatively) to any person except to a US Government official with a need to know or to a non-Government person (including, but not limited to, a person in my company, affiliated companies, sub-contractors, etc.) who has a need to know related to the immediate contract/order, has executed a valid form of this non-disclosure agreement, and receives prior clearance by the Contracting Officer. All distribution of the documents will be controlled with the concurrence of the Contracting Officer. b) "Non-public information," as used herein includes trade secrets; confidential or proprietary business information (as defined for Government employees in 18 USC 1905); advance procurement information (future requirements, acquisition strategies, statements of work, budget/program/planning data, etc.); source selection information (proposal rankings, source selection plans, contractor bid or proposal information); information protected by the Privacy Act (social security numbers, home addresses, etc.); sensitive information protected from release under the Freedom of Information Act (pre-decisional deliberations, litigation materials, privileged material, etc.); and information that has not been released to the general public and has not been authorized for such release (as defined for Government employees in 5 CFR 2635.703). c) Not use such information for any non-Governmental purposes, including, but not limited to, the preparation of bids or proposals, or the development or execution of other business or commercial ventures. d) Store the information in such a manner as to prevent inadvertent disclosure or releases to individuals who have not been authorized access to it.

Page 43 of 48

4. I understand that I must never make an unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential business information, contractor bid or proposal information, and/or source selection sensitive information unless: a) The information has otherwise been made available without restriction to the Government, to a competing contractor or to the public. b) The Contracting Officer determines that such information is not subject to protection from release. 5. I agree that I shall not seek access to "non-public information" beyond what is required for the performance of the services I am contracted to perform. I agree that when I seek access to such information, attend meetings, or communicate with other parties about such information, I will identify myself as a contractor. Should I become aware of any improper or unintentional release or disclosure of "non-public information," I will immediately report it to the Contracting Officer in writing. I agree that I will return all forms (including copies or reproduction of original documents) of any "non -public information" provided to me by the Government for use in performing my duties to the control of the Government when my duties no longer require this information. 6. Because the Government expects unbiased judgment and recommendations from contractors performing work under its contracts and orders, I agree to advise the Contracting Officer of any actual or potential personal conflicts of interest I may have related to any work I perform under this contract/order with the government. Personal conflicts of interest include any matter in which I or my spouse, minor child, or household member has a financial interest. A financial interest is any interest in, or affiliation with, a prime contractor, subcontractor to a prime contractor, any offerors, or any prospective subcontractor to any offeror for the program, contract, or other matter for which I am performing a support task under this contract. The financial interest can take the form of any ownership interest (including but not limited to: stock; ownership of bonds; vested or unvested retirement benefits; a loan or other financial arrangement that is other than an arm's-length transaction; employment, or an arrangement concerning prospective employment including negotiations therefore; or any non arm's length loan, any gift from or other non arm's length financial arrangement with any person who is directly communicating with the government on behalf of the prime contractor, subcontractor, or any prospective subcontractor or offeror). With respect to conflict of interest disclosures required under this agreement, a financial interest in, or affiliation with, the prime contractor that is my employer under this contract does not have to be disclosed to the Contracting Officer. If any potential conflicts of interest, real or otherwise, do present themselves, then I shall immediately disclose the pertinent information to the Contracting Officer. By signing below, I certify that I have read and understand the terms of this Non-Disclosure Agreement and Agreement to Disclose Potential Conflicts of Interest, and voluntarily agree to be bound by its terms.

Signature of Contractor Employee

Date

Printed Contractor Employee Name Government Contracting Officer's Representative

Date

Contracting Officer

Date

Page 44 of 48

APPENDIX C APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS The most current versions of the following documents are applicable to this Performance Work Statement:                        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System CJCSI 6212.01, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security Systems CJCSI 6510.01, Information Assurance (IA) and Support to Computer Network Defense CJCS Manual 6510.01A, Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND) Volume 1 (Incident Handling Program) DOD Instruction (DODI) 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix DOD Directive (DODD) 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security Systems DODI 4630.8, Procedures for Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security Systems DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System DODD 8500.01, Information Assurance (IA) DODI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation DODI 8510.01, DOD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process DODI 8520.02, Public Key Infrastructure and Public Key Enabling DODI 8520.03, Identity Authentication for Information Systems DODI 8551.1, Ports, Protocols, and Services Management DODD 8570.01, Information Assurance Training, Certification and Workforce Management DOD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Training, Certification and Workforce Management DOD Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 08-027, Security of Unclassified DOD Information on Non-DOD Information Systems National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication (NIST) 800-53, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations NIST Special Publication 800-61, Computer Security Incident Handling Guide Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR) Joint Travel Regulations (JTR) Defense Transportation Regulations (DTR) 4500.9-R

Security Regulation Guidance: Reference PWS paragraph 5.0 for security regulation guidance. Forms:  DD Form 254, DOD Contract Security Classification Specification  DD Form 1423-1, Contract Data Requirements List Data Item Descriptions (DIDs): Reference Appendix E for DIDs. Miscellaneous Documents:  Section 508 (New requirements for access by the disabled specified in the Rehabilitation Act, as detailed in 36CFR 1194, Subpart B)
Page 45 of 48

    

DOD Architecture Framework (DODAF) Version 2.0 Joint Deployment and Distribution Architecture ­ Enhanced (JDDA-E) DOD Application Security and Development, Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) ANSI/EIA-748-A, National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA) Program Management Systems Committee (PMSC) Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS) Intent Guide, November 2006 SDDC System Help Desk Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) (Part of GFI, Appendix E)

Web resources:  Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) is available at: https://www.acquisition.gov/far/  DOD publications, directives, and instructions are available at: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html  CJCS publications are available at: http://www.dtic.mil/cjcs_directives/index.htm  CJCSI 6212 resource page: https://www.intelink.gov/wiki/Portal:CJCSI_6212_Resource_Page  NIST Publications are available at: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html  DIDs are available at: http://www.assistdocs.com/search/search_basic.cfm  DODAF 2.0 is available at: http://dodcio.defense.gov/dodaf20/dodaf20_links.aspx  JDDA-E is available at: https://www.intelink.gov/wiki/JDDA-E  Software Engineering Institute (SEI) Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) information is available at: http://www.sei.cmu.edu/cmmi/

Page 46 of 48

APPENDIX D ESTIMATED WORKLOAD Task 1: Contract Level and Project Management Estimated labor hours Base Period: 3,450 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 840 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 1,200 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 1,560 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 1,560 Task Area 2: Program Development Estimated labor hours Base Period: 61,720 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 2,960 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: Task Area 3: Data Sustainment and Maintenance, Security, and Documentation Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 8,220 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 8,640 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 8,640 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 8,640 Task 4: Program Sustainment Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 7,040 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 8,320 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 8,320 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 8,320 Task 5: System Enhancements and New Development (OPTIONAL) Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 0 Task 6: Configuration Management (CM) Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 1,860 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 380 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 380 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 380 Task 7: Information Assurance (IA) Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 2,160 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 2,080 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 2,080 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 2,080 Task 8: EGIS Sustainment and Enhancements Estimated labor hours Base Period: 0 Estimated labor hours Option Period 1: 5,280 Estimated labor hours Option Period 2: 3,380 Estimated labor hours Option Period 3: 3,380 Estimated labor hours Option Period 4: 3,380
Page 47 of 48

APPENDIX E GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT

The following will be distributed to the contractor and supported by the government: 8 SIPR Desktops 8 NIPR Desktops 7 Laptops

Page 48 of 48

