
                                                                Statement of Work
                                                           Office of Financial Research
                                                             Market Research Database
                                                                13 September 2012


Background Information
This request directly supports the OFR’s strategic goal  as  a  “center  of  excellence  for  research  and  analysis  on  financial  stability”.
Specifically, the request addresses the need for a subscription to a database that will enable the OFR’s Business Analysis Organization (BAO)  to
more effectively conduct market research specific to data acquisitions.

Purpose & Objectives of the Procurement
An important role of BAO is to conduct market research with respect to data acquisition needs of the Research and Analysis Center.

There are numerous third party vendors selling financial market products and services to meet these needs. More specifically, there are over  700
vendors providing over 1,800 financial products. Many of these products focus on niche segments of the financial  markets  that  are  not  widely
covered.

In order for BAO to efficiently and effectively identify potential data providers, it would be helpful to subscribe  to  a  third  party  service
(i.e., on-line directory) that specifically researches and screens financial market data vendors.

Such a service could enable BAO to accomplish three key objectives with respect to data acquisition market research.

   1) This service may be used to narrow the vendor universe for any particular data acquisition need. For example, such a service may be  useful
      in addressing questions from both the procurement and legal teams with respect to how BAO determined any given number of viable vendors for
      a particular data need. This service can serve as a source for BAO’s conclusions.

   2) This service may enable the OFR to discover new data sources that we did not know to exist. Such sources may  be  helpful  for  identifying
      future needs.

   3) Finally, we are aware of one such service that also provides live consultants (this cost is included in the  annual  subscription  fee  for
      this specific on-line directory). Live consultants may be used for more specialized data acquisition needs. For example, the OFR may have a
      specific need for an obscure dataset. Consultants may conduct inquiries with their contacts to gather information as to  where  we  may  be
      able to obtain harder-to-find data that may not be already included in the service’s directory.

Contractor Requirements
We would like a subscription to a database service that provides the following:

 • Easy access (i.e., online web-portal)
 • Information in database is frequently updated
 • Allow multiple users (we envision BAO initially be the only users)
 • Captures large majority of the key vendors of financial data products/services
 • Provides detailed backgrounds on the products/services provided by each vendor
 • Provides pricing information by product/service where available
 • Provides an analysis of each vendor’s products/services (i.e., a Consumer Reports-like analysis).
 • Access to live consultants for additional data needs not met by on-line directory.

