
                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK
                                                                       FOR
                                                               8th Air Force Museum
                                                            TOUCH SCREEN LOBBY DISPLAY

1. Background for Requirement

      At present there is no means for a visitor to feel welcome upon entering the 8th Air Force Museum.  A need to welcome and inform the
visitor is paramount.  The use of touch screen and video technology would greatly enhance the visitor experience.

2. Scope of Work

      The purpose of this contract is to have a museum versed contractor design and build an electronic - interactive “Welcome to the Eighth Air
Force Museum” display in the lobby of the museum’s entrance.  The contractor will provide all management, tools, supplies, equipment, parts, and
labor necessary to accomplish the creation of that narrative.  The contractor shall use a variety of mediums and media to accomplish this task
such as graphics, photographs, video and touch screen technology.

3. Service Delivery Summary

      The objective of service is to be able to walk up to the display and touch the screen to receive a Welcome and some historical information
on the organizations that call Barksdale Home.  There will need to be a panel made up of several video monitors that can fill the entrance wall
and be integrated to be one large screen - large enough in its presentation to be effective. On a half shelf below the monitors is a touch
screen that can be pushed to bring up a welcome from the various base organizations, like HQ AF Global Strike Command, HQ 8th Air Force, 2d Bomb
Wing and the 917th Wing.  The touch screen buttons can then let the visitor get a look at one of those units at a time to learn what they do and
what they fly or manage for the Air Force. There will also be a button for museum information.  Such as a graphic of the museum floor plan –
sort of like a road map to the various galleries they can view.

4. Services Provided by Museum Director/Staff

      Museum Director will furnish the contractor with photographs, heraldic images and any other biographical information required by the
contractor.  The Director will assist the contractor to the best of his ability, when necessary, to resolve issues and answer questions.
