SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, AND 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER W81G6732059355 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF

48

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

W912ES-13-T-0103
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL: a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect Calls)

27-Aug-2013
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

JUSTIN H ROSE
CODE

651-290-5422
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS 100 % FOR BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE

09:00 AM 04 Sep 2013
12. DISCOUNT TERMS

9. ISSUED BY CONTRACTING DIVISION USACE - ST. PAUL 180 5TH STREET E SUITE 700 ST. PAUL MN 55101-1678

W912ES

X SET ASIDE: X SB

HUBZONE SB 8(A) SVC-DISABLED VET-OWNED SB

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION IFB CODE RFP

TEL: FAX: 651-290-5706
15. DELIVER TO
ULA - LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT OFF USACE - ST PAUL 180 5TH STREET E SUITE 700 ST PAUL MN 55101-1638 TEL: 651-290-5222 FAX: 651-290-5746

EMERGING SB SIZE STD: CODE
B670000

X RFQ 1000 emp NAICS: 333316

16. ADMINISTERED BY

17a.CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

18a. PAY MENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TEL.

FACILITY CODE

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO.

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES

SEE SCHEDULE
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Gov t. Use Only )

0

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1. 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3. 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.

ADDENDA ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN

1

COPIES

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE OFFER DATED . Y OUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

X

TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a.UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER) 31c. DATE SIGNED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER
(TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

(TYPE OR PRINT)

TEL:

EMAIL:

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (CONTINUED)
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

PAGE 2 OF 48 24. AMOUNT

SEE SCHEDULE

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: ______________________________________________________ 32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f . TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAY MENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAY MENT 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 41c. DATE 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFY ING OFFICER 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) BACK Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 3 of 48 Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET

ITEM NO 0001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY 1

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

MICROFILM READER FFP FOB: Destination MILSTRIP: W81G6732059355 PURCHASE REQUEST NUMBER: W81G6732059355

NET AMT

STATEMENT OF WORK

1. Description of Need: MicroFilm Scanner We currently have the Minolta MS6000 MicroFilm Reader located in Map Files. The software that is used to manage and print the MicroFilm is not Windows 7 compatible. We need a replacement Microfilm Reader. The functionality is defined below. The vendor shall identify where the proposed piece of equipment exists locally. USACE may chose to do sample scanning/plotting with the proposed piece of equipment prior to accepting the product.

The delivery & installation shall be completed by September 25, 2013.
The vendor shall provide training on using the piece of equipment for a few people, not to exceed 6 persons. Once the delivery/installation date has been set, the vendor shall coordinate with USACE point of contact in regards to scheduling the training.

The training shall be completed by September 27, 2013.
2. Description of Item(s) Requested (minimum): Item: Requirements: MicroFilm Scanner Scans color

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 4 of 48

Scans black & white Minimum camera resolution: 12 mega pixels Minimum Optical zoom lenses: 7x-54x Touch Screen Ready Image Capture Speed: One second Operating System: Windows 7 - 32/64 bit Maximum Dimensions [HxWxL]: 18" x 18" x 18" Power: local AC Carrier to handle: 35 mm reels, 16 mm reels, M-Cartridge, fiche, aperture cards, opaque cards, color transparency, photo negatives and 35 mm slides One year on-site warranty Training, not to exceed 6 (six) persons Software functionality: Customizable interface for all controls Film selection wizard: automatic scanner set up Focus Lock: focus maintained at all times OCR: word searchable, single page PDF Magnifier for text and images Edits selected images and text Cropping: custom, automatic and manual Save and restore settings Brightness and contrast Straighten: automatic, line straighten, and manual Film type: positive and negative Rotate 90 degrees: clockwise or counter clockwise Mirror image Scan size adjustment Scan mode: color, gray scale, enhances, and Bitone Selectable optical DPI: Range from 100 to 600, including 300 & 400 Quantity: One (1) Microfilm Scanner

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 5 of 48

NOTES TO OFFEROR

NOTESTOOFFEROR
This is a 100% Small Business Set-Aside solicitation. The Contractor's quote shall contain sufficient information so that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers can determine whether the proposed elements are realistic for the work to be performed, reflect a clear understanding of the requirements, and are consistent with the proposed methods of performance and materials to be supplied.

The Contractor should be prepared to defend any discrepancies between the quote and a fair and reasonable estimate prepared by the Government. It should include sufficient information to demonstrate that the work effort is reasonable pertaining to the site and scope. Any unusual conditions or factors affecting the work duration/productivity should be identified.

It is preferred that the quote be provided electronically to: Justin Rose, Contract Specialist, Justin.H.Rose@USACE.Army.mil

The offeror may also submit the quote by mail / courier to the following: CONTRACTING DIVISION USACE ­ ST PAUL ATTN: JUSTIN ROSE 180 5TH STREET EAST SUITE 700 ST. PAUL, MN 55101-1678

OFFEROR SHALL BE REGISTERED IN SAM (System for Award Management) https://www.sam.gov/portal/public/SAM/ to include the Reps and Certs sections. For assistance with SAM, contact information is below: SAM by GSA Hours of Operation: Monday ­ Friday 8am to 8pm ET, U.S. Calls 866-606-8220, Service desk website: http://www.fsd.gov/ Minnesota PTAC (Procurement Technical Assistance Center), www.mnptac.org Sherri Komrosky, Program Director, 612-259-6565 (office), skomrosky@mnptac.org

PLEASE E-MAIL ALL QUESTIONS to Justin Rose, Contract Specialist, at Justin.H.Rose@USACE.Army.mil

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 6 of 48

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE TERMS Supplies/services will be inspected/accepted at:
CLIN 0001 INSPECT AT N/A INSPECT BY N/A ACCEPT AT Destination ACCEPT BY Government

DELIVERY INFORMATION
CLIN 0001 DELIVERY DATE 25-SEP-2013 QUANTITY 1 SHIP TO ADDRESS ULA - LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT OFF USACE - ST PAUL 180 5TH STREET E SUITE 700 ST PAUL MN 55101-1638 651-290-5222 FOB: Destination UIC B670000

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (DEC 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database means the primary Government repository for Contractor information required for the conduct of business with the Government. Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number means the 9-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet, Inc. (D&B) to identify unique business entities. Data Universal Numbering System +4 (DUNS+4) number means the DUNS number assigned by D&B plus a 4character suffix that may be assigned by a business concern. (D&B has no affiliation with this 4-character suffix.) This 4-character suffix may be assigned at the discretion of the business concern to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see the FAR at Subpart 32.11) for the same parent concern. Registered in the CCR database means that-(1) The Offeror has entered all mandatory information, including the DUNS number or the DUNS+4 number, as well as data required by the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (see subpart 4.14), into the CCR database; and

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 7 of 48 (2) The Government has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and has marked the record ``Active''. The Offeror will be required to provide consent for TIN validation to the Government as a part of the CCR registration process. (b)(1) By submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance, and through final payment of any contract, basic agreement, basic ordering agreement, or blanket purchasing agreement resulting from this solicitation. (2) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The DUNS number will be used by the Contracting Officer to verify that the offeror is registered in the CCR database. (c) If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. (1) An offeror may obtain a DUNS number-(i) Via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the offeror does not have internet access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at 1-866-705-5711 if located within the United States; or (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (2) The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information: (i) Company legal business. (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized. (iii) Company Physical Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code. (iv) Company Mailing Address, City, State and Zip Code (if separate from physical). (v) Company Telephone Number. (vi) Date the company was started. (vii) Number of employees at your location. (viii) Chief executive officer/key manager. (ix) Line of business (industry). (x) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity). (d) If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. (e) Processing time, which normally takes 48 hours, should be taken into consideration when registering. Offerors who are not registered should consider applying for registration immediately upon receipt of this solicitation. (f) Offerors may obtain information on registration at https://www.acquisition.gov. (End of clause)

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 8 of 48

52.212-1

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)

(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show-(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 9 of 48 (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers: (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 10 of 48 (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to--GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section, Suite 8100, 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20407, Telephone (202) 619-8925, Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS +4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the CCR database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 11 of 48 (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. (End of provision)

52.212-2

EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Price (b) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of provision)

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2012) ALTERNATE I (APR 2011)

An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision: "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 12 of 48 (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 13 of 48

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 14 of 48 "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted electronically on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.2123, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.) These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 15 of 48

Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a womenowned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-(i) It * is, * is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-(i) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ballot] is, [ballot] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: _____________________________________________ (10) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.) (i) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not an emerging small business. (ii) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 16 of 48

(B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Average Annual Number of Employees Gross Revenues ___ 50 or fewer ___ $1 million or less ___ 51 - 100 ___ $1,000,001 - $2 million ___ 101 - 250 ___ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million ___ 251 - 500 ___ $3,500,001 - $5 million ___ 501 - 750 ___ $5,000,001 - $10 million ___ 751 - 1,000 ___ $10,000,001 - $17 million ___ Over 1,000 ___ Over $17 million (11) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.) (i) General. The offeror represents that either-(A) It ( ) is, ( ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search Database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ( ) has, ( )( has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ____________.)

(12) Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls):

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 17 of 48 ____Black American. ____Hispanic American. ____Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-(1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and (ii) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has developed and has on file, ( ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ( ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 18 of 48 product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

(List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 19 of 48

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 20 of 48

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and (2) ( ) Have, ( ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ballot] Have, [ballot] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 21 of 48 (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (2) Certification. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ( )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ( ) Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ( ) TIN: --------------------.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 22 of 48

( ) TIN has been applied for. ( ) TIN is not required because: ( ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ( ) Sole proprietorship; ( ) Partnership; ( ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ( ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ( ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ( ) Foreign government; ( ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ( ) Other ----------. (5) Common parent. ( ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ( ) Name and TIN of common parent: Name --------------------. TIN --------------------. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 23 of 48 (o) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision)

52.212-4

CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2013)

(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights (1) within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 24 of 48 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement or any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include-(i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 25 of 48 (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.-(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days;

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 26 of 48

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 27 of 48 to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) the schedule of supplies/services; (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts, and Unauthorized Obligations paragraphs of this clause; (3) the clause at 52.212-5; (4) addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software; (5) solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation; (6) other paragraphs of this clause; (7) the Standard Form 1449; (8) other documents, exhibits, and attachments; and (9) the specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or changeof-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 28 of 48 (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via CCR accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (u) Unauthorized Obligations. (1) Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an AntiDeficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (i) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an ``I agree'' click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., ``click-wrap'' or ``browse-wrap'' agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (iii) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures. (End of clause)

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 2013) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (Contracting Officer check as appropriate.)

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 29 of 48 ___ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402).

____ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). ____ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)

___ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Aug 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).

___ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 1115). ___ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ____ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). ____ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (MAY 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ____ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ____ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).

____ (11) [Reserved]

XX (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644).

____ (ii) Alternate I (NOV 2011).

____ (iii) Alternate II (NOV 2011). ____ (13)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.

____ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 30 of 48

____ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).

____ (15)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

____ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

____ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. ____ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)). ____ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ____ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ____ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ____ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ____ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

____ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

____ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f).

XX (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ____ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (APR 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ____ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (APR 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). XX (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). XX (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (MAR 2012) (E.O. 3126). XX (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). ____ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 31 of 48 ____ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). ____ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). ____ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). ____ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). ____ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ____ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

____ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ____ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ____ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). ____ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. XX (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513). XX (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ____(40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (NOV 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43). (ii) Alternate I (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3. (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3. (iv) Alternate III (NOV 2012) of 52.225-3. (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (NOV 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). XX (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ____ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150 ____ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 32 of 48 ____ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ____ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ____ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ____ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ____ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ____ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ____ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ____ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (Contracting Officer check as appropriate.) _____ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _____ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _____ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). _____ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-- Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _____ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O.13495). _____ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). _____ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 33 of 48

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1)in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (DEC 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 34 of 48 (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor May include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)

52.222-50

COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Coercion means-(1) Threats of serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; (2) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that failure to perform an act would result in serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or (3) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. Commercial sex act means any sex act on account of which anything of value is given to or received by any person. Debt bondage means the status or condition of a debtor arising from a pledge by the debtor of his or her personal services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not respectively limited and defined. Employee means an employee of the Contractor directly engaged in the performance of work under the contract who has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance. Forced Labor means knowingly providing or obtaining the labor or services of a person-(1) By threats of serious harm to, or physical restraint against, that person or another person; (2) By means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the person to believe that, if the person did not perform such labor or services, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or (3) By means of the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process. Involuntary servitude includes a condition of servitude induced by means of-(1) Any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such conditions, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraint; or

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 35 of 48

(2) The abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process. Severe forms of trafficking in persons means-(1) Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or (2) The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery. Sex trafficking means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act. (b) Policy. The United States Government has adopted a zero tolerance policy regarding trafficking in persons. Contractors and contractor employees shall not-(1) Engage in severe forms of trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract; (2) Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract; or (3) Use forced labor in the performance of the contract. (c) Contractor requirements. The Contractor shall-(1) Notify its employees of-(i) The United States Government's zero tolerance policy described in paragraph (b) of this clause; and (ii) The actions that will be taken against employees for violations of this policy. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, removal from the contract, reduction in benefits, or termination of employment; and (2) Take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees or subcontractors that violate the policy in paragraph (b) of this clause. (d) Notification. The Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer immediately of-(1) Any information it receives from any source (including host country law enforcement) that alleges a Contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee has engaged in conduct that violates this policy; and (2) Any actions taken against Contractor employees, subcontractors, or subcontractor employees pursuant to this clause. (e) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor's failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), or (f) of this clause may result in -(1) Requiring the Contractor to remove a Contractor employee or employees from the performance of the contract; (2) Requiring the Contractor to terminate a subcontract; (3) Suspension of contract payments;

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 36 of 48 (4) Loss of award fee, consistent with the award fee plan, for the performance period in which the Government determined Contractor non-compliance; (5) Termination of the contract for default or cause, in accordance with the termination clause of this contract; or (6) Suspension or debarment. (f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts. (g) Mitigating Factor. The Contracting Officer may consider whether the Contractor had a Trafficking in Persons awareness program at the time of the violation as a mitigating factor when determining remedies. Additional information about Trafficking in Persons and examples of awareness programs can be found at the website for the Department of State's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at http://www.state.gov/g/tip. (End of clause)

52.225-25 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications. (DEC 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-Person-(1) Means-(i) A natural person; (ii) A corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, and any governmental entity operating as a business enterprise; and (iii) Any successor to any entity described in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition; and (2) Does not include a government or governmental entity that is not operating as a business enterprise. Sensitive technology-(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). (b) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 37 of 48

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this provision or if a waiver has been granted in accordance with 25.7034, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (1) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (2) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. These sanctioned activities are in the areas of development of the petroleum resources of Iran, production of refined petroleum products in Iran, sale and provision of refined petroleum products to Iran, and contributing to Iran's ability to acquire or develop certain weapons or technologies; and (3) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (d) Exception for trade agreements. The representation requirement of paragraph (c)(1) and the certification requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this provision do not apply if-- (1) This solicitation includes a trade agreements notice or certification (e.g., 52.225-4, 52.225-6, 52.225-12, 52.22524, or comparable agency provision); and (2) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products or designated country construction material. (End of provision)

52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003) (a) Method of payment. (1) All payments by the Government under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT), except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term "EFT" refers to the funds transfer and may also include the payment information transfer. (2) In the event the Government is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either-(i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or (ii) Request the Government to extend the payment due date until such time as the Government can make payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of this clause). (b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the CCR database. (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 38 of 48 Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR part 210. (d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor's EFT information in the CCR database is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the CCR database; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Government used the Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the Government remains responsible for-(i) Making a correct payment; (ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and (iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds. (2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and-(i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Government is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Government shall not make payment, and the provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall apply. (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the CCR database and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to subpart 32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor's financial agent. (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in the CCR database.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 39 of 48

(End of Clause)

52.232-39 UNENFORCEABILITY OF UNAUTHORIZED OBLIGATIONS (JUN 2013) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (1) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (2) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an ``I agree'' click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., ``click-wrap'' or ``browse-wrap'' agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (3) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures. (End of clause)

52.247-34

F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991)

(a) The term "f.o.b. destination," as used in this clause, means-(1) Free of expense to the Government, on board the carrier's conveyance, at a specified delivery point where the consignee's facility (plant, warehouse, store, lot, or other location to which shipment can be made) is located; and (2) Supplies shall be delivered to the destination consignee's wharf (if destination is a port city and supplies are for export), warehouse unloading platform, or receiving dock, at the expense of the Contractor. The Government shall not be liable for any delivery, storage, demurrage, accessorial, or other charges involved before the actual delivery (or "constructive placement" as defined in carrier tariffs) of the supplies to the destination, unless such charges are caused by an act or order of the Government acting in its contractual capacity. If rail carrier is used, supplies shall be delivered to the specified unloading platform of the consignee. If motor carrier (including "piggyback") is used, supplies shall be delivered to truck tailgate at the unloading platform of the consignee, except when the supplies delivered meet the requirements of Item 568 of the National Motor Freight Classification for "heavy or bulky freight." When supplies meeting the requirements of the referenced Item 568 are delivered, unloading (including movement to the tailgate) shall be performed by the consignee, with assistance from the truck driver, if requested. If the contractor uses rail carrier or freight forwarded for less than carload shipments, the contractor shall ensure that the carrier will furnish tailgate delivery, when required, if transfer to truck is required to complete delivery to consignee. (b) The Contractor shall--

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 40 of 48 (1)(i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or (ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment in conformance with carrier requirements; (2) Prepare and distribute commercial bills of lading; (3) Deliver the shipment in good order and condition to the point of delivery specified in the contract; (4) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods occurring before receipt of the shipment by the consignee at the delivery point specified in the contract; (5) Furnish a delivery schedule and designate the mode of delivering carrier; and (6) Pay and bear all charges to the specified point of delivery. (End of clause)

52.252-2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): www.acquisition.gov (End of clause)

252.203-7000 REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO COMPENSATION OF FORMER DOD OFFICIALS (SEP 2011) (a) Definition. Covered DoD official, as used in this clause, means an individual that-(1) Leaves or left DoD service on or after January 28, 2008; and (2)(i) Participated personally and substantially in an acquisition as defined in 41 U.S.C. 131 with a value in excess of $10 million, and serves or served-(A) In an Executive Schedule position under subchapter II of chapter 53 of Title 5, United States Code; (B) In a position in the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of Title 5, United States Code; or (C) In a general or flag officer position compensated at a rate of pay for grade O-7 or above under section 201 of Title 37, United States Code; or (ii) Serves or served in DoD in one of the following positions: Program manager, deputy program manager, procuring contracting officer, administrative contracting officer, source selection authority, member of the source selection evaluation board, or chief of a financial or technical evaluation team for a contract in an amount in excess of $10 million.

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 41 of 48 (b) The Contractor shall not knowingly provide compensation to a covered DoD official within 2 years after the official leaves DoD service, without first determining that the official has sought and received, or has not received after 30 days of seeking, a written opinion from the appropriate DoD ethics counselor regarding the applicability of post-employment restrictions to the activities that the official is expected to undertake on behalf of the Contractor. (c) Failure by the Contractor to comply with paragraph (b) of this clause may subject the Contractor to rescission of this contract, suspension, or debarment in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 2105(c). (End of clause)

252.203-7002 REQUIREMENT TO INFORM EMPLOYEES OF WHISTLEBLOWER RIGHTS (JAN 2009) The Contractor shall inform its employees in writing of employee whistleblower rights and protections under 10 U.S.C. 2409, as described in Subpart 203.9 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement. (End of clause)

252.203-7005 REPRESENTATION RELATING TO COMPENSATION OF FORMER DOD OFFICIALS (NOV 2011) (a) Definition. Covered DoD official is defined in the clause at 252.203-7000, Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials. (b) By submission of this offer, the offeror represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that all covered DoD officials employed by or otherwise receiving compensation from the offeror, and who are expected to undertake activities on behalf of the offeror for any resulting contract, are presently in compliance with all post-employment restrictions covered by 18 U.S.C. 207, 41 U.S.C. 2101-2107, and 5 CFR parts 2637 and 2641, including Federal Acquisition Regulation 3.104-2. (End of provision)

252.204-7003

CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL WORK PRODUCT (APR 1992)

The Contractor's procedures for protecting against unauthorized disclosure of information shall not require Department of Defense employees or members of the Armed Forces to relinquish control of their work products, whether classified or not, to the contractor. (End of clause)

252.204-7006 BILLING INSTRUCTIONS (OCT 2005) When submitting a request for payment, the Contractor shall--

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 42 of 48

(a) Identify the contract line item(s) on the payment request that reasonably reflect contract work performance; and (b) Separately identify a payment amount for each contract line item included in the payment request. (End of clause)

252.223-7004 (a) Definitions.

DRUG-FREE WORK FORCE (SEP 1988)

(1) "Employee in a sensitive position," as used in this clause, means an employee who has been granted access to classified information; or employees in other positions that the Contractor determines involve national security; health or safety, or functions other than the foregoing requiring a high degree of trust and confidence. (2) "Illegal drugs," as used in this clause, means controlled substances included in Schedules I and II, as defined by section 802(6) of title 21 of the United States Code, the possession of which is unlawful under chapter 13 of that Title. The term "illegal drugs" does not mean the use of a controlled substance pursuant to a valid prescription or other uses authorized by law. (b) The Contractor agrees to institute and maintain a program for achieving the objective of a drug-free work force. While this clause defines criteria for such a program, contractors are encouraged to implement alternative approaches comparable to the criteria in paragraph (c) that are designed to achieve the objectives of this clause. (c) Contractor programs shall include the following, or appropriate alternatives: (1) Employee assistance programs emphasizing high level direction, education, counseling, rehabilitation, and coordination with available community resources; (2) Supervisory training to assist in identifying and addressing illegal drug use by Contractor employees; (3) Provision for self-referrals as well as supervisory referrals to treatment with maximum respect for individual confidentiality consistent with safety and security issues; (4) Provision for identifying illegal drug users, including testing on a controlled and carefully monitored basis. Employee drug testing programs shall be established taking account of the following: (i) The Contractor shall establish a program that provides for testing for the use of illegal drugs by employees in sensitive positions. The extent of and criteria for such testing shall be determined by the Contractor based on considerations that include the nature of the work being performed under the contract, the employee's duties, and efficient use of Contractor resources, and the risks to health, safety, or national security that could result from the failure of an employee adequately to discharge his or her position. (ii) In addition, the Contractor may establish a program for employee drug testing-(A) When there is a reasonable suspicion that an employee uses illegal drugs; or (B) When an employees has been involved in an accident or unsafe practice; (C) As part of or as a follow-up to counseling or rehabilitation for illegal drug use;

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 43 of 48 (D) As part of a voluntary employee drug testing program. (iii) The Contractor may establish a program to test applicants for employment for illegal drug use. (iv) For the purpose of administering this clause, testing for illegal drugs may be limited to those substances for which testing is prescribed by section 2..1 of subpart B of the "Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs" (53 FR 11980 (April 11, 1988), issued by the Department of Health and Human Services. (d) Contractors shall adopt appropriate personnel procedures to deal with employees who are found to be using drugs illegally. Contractors shall not allow any employee to remain on duty or perform in a sensitive position who is found to use illegal drugs until such times as the Contractor, in accordance with procedures established by the Contractor, determines that the employee may perform in such a position. (e) The provisions of this clause pertaining to drug testing program shall not apply to the extent that are inconsistent with state or local law, or with an existing collective bargaining agreement; provided that with respect to the latter, the Contractor agrees those issues that are in conflict will be a subject of negotiation at the next collective bargaining session. (End of clause)

252.232-7003 (JUNE 2012)

ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS AND RECEIVING REPORTS

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause­ (1) Contract financing payment and invoice payment have the meanings given in section 32.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (2) Electronic form means any automated system that transmits information electronically from the initiating system to all affected systems. Facsimile, e-mail, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms for submission of payment requests. However, scanned documents are acceptable when they are part of a submission of a payment request made using Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF) or another electronic form authorized by the Contracting Officer. (3) Payment request means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the Contractor under this contract. (4) Receiving report means the data required by the clause at 252.246-7000, Material Inspection and Receiving Report. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests and receiving reports using WAWF, in one of the following electronic formats that WAWF accepts: Electronic Data Interchange, Secure File Transfer Protocol, or World Wide Web input. Information regarding WAWF is available on the Internet at https://wawf.eb.mil/. (c) The Contractor may submit a payment request and receiving report using other than WAWF only when­ (1) The Contracting Officer administering the contract for payment has determined, in writing, that electronic submission would be unduly burdensome to the Contractor. In such cases, the Contractor shall include a copy of the Contracting Officer's determination with each request for payment; (2) DoD makes payment for commercial transportation services provided under a Government rate tender or a contract for transportation services using a DoD-approved electronic third party payment system or other exempted

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 44 of 48 vendor payment/invoicing system (e.g., PowerTrack, Transportation Financial Management System, and Cargo and Billing System); (3) DoD makes payment for rendered health care services using the TRICARE Encounter Data System (TEDS) as the electronic format; or (4) When the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is used as the method of payment, only submission of the receiving report in electronic form is required. (d) The Contractor shall submit any non-electronic payment requests using the method or methods specified in Section G of the contract. (e) In addition to the requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall meet the requirements of the appropriate payment clauses in this contract when submitting payments requests. (End of clause)

252.232-7010

LEVIES ON CONTRACT PAYMENTS (DEC 2006)

(a) 26 U.S.C. 6331(h) authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to continuously levy up to 100 percent of contract payments, up to the amount of tax debt. (b) When a levy is imposed on a payment under this contract and the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Procuring Contracting Officer in writing, with a copy to the Administrative Contracting Officer, and shall provide-(1) The total dollar amount of the levy; (2) A statement that the Contractor believes that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation; and (3) Advice as to whether the inability to perform may adversely affect national security, including rationale and adequate supporting documentation. (c) DoD shall promptly review the Contractor's assessment, and the Procuring Contracting Officer shall provide a written notification to the Contractor including-(1) A statement as to whether DoD agrees that the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract; and (2)(i) If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract and the lack of performance will adversely affect national security, the total amount of the monies collected that should be returned to the Contractor; or (ii) If the levy may result in an inability to perform the contract but will not impact national security, a recommendation that the Contractor promptly notify the IRS to attempt to resolve the tax situation. (d) Any DoD determination under this clause is not subject to appeal under the Contract Disputes Act. (End of clause)

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 45 of 48

252.246-7000

MATERIAL INSPECTION AND RECEIVING REPORT (MAR 2008)

(a) At the time of each delivery of supplies or services under this contract, the Contractor shall prepare and furnish to the Government a material inspection and receiving report in the manner and to the extent required by Appendix F, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, of the Defense FAR Supplement. (b) Contractor submission of the material inspection and receiving information required by Appendix F of the Defense FAR Supplement by using the Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF) electronic form (see paragraph (b) of the clause at 252.232-7003) fulfills the requirement for a material inspection and receiving report (DD Form 250). Two copies of the receiving report (paper copies of either the DD Form 250 or the WAWF report) shall be distributed with the shipment, in accordance with Appendix F, Part 4, F-401, Table 1, of the Defense FAR Supplement.

(End of clause)

252.247-7023

TRANSPORTATION OF SUPPLIES BY SEA (JUN 2013) ALTERNATE III (MAY 2002)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause -(1) "Components" means articles, materials, and supplies incorporated directly into end products at any level of manufacture, fabrication, or assembly by the Contractor or any subcontractor. (2) "Department of Defense" (DoD) means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and defense agencies. (3) "Foreign flag vessel" means any vessel that is not a U.S.-flag vessel. (4) "Ocean transportation" means any transportation aboard a ship, vessel, boat, barge, or ferry through international waters. (5) "Subcontractor" means a supplier, materialman, distributor, or vendor at any level below the prime contractor whose contractual obligation to perform results from, or is conditioned upon, award of the prime contract and who is performing any part of the work or other requirement of the prime contract. (6) "Supplies" means all property, except land and interests in land, that is clearly identifiable for eventual use by or owned by the DoD at the time of transportation by sea. (i) An item is clearly identifiable for eventual use by the DoD if, for example, the contract documentation contains a reference to a DoD contract number or a military destination. (ii) "Supplies" includes (but is not limited to) public works; buildings and facilities; ships; floating equipment and vessels of every character, type, and description, with parts, subassemblies, accessories, and equipment; machine tools; material; equipment; stores of all kinds; end items; construction materials; and components of the foregoing. (7) "U.S.-flag vessel" means a vessel of the United States or belonging to the United States, including any vessel registered or having national status under the laws of the United States. (b)(1) The Contractor shall use U.S.-flag vessels when transporting any supplies by sea under this contract. (2) A subcontractor transporting supplies by sea under this contract shall use U.S.-flag vessels if-(i) This contract is a construction contract; or

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 46 of 48

(ii) The supplies being transported are-(A) Noncommercial items; or (B) Commercial items that-(1) The Contractor is reselling or distributing to the Government without adding value (generally, the Contractor does not add value to items that it contracts for f.o.b. destination shipment); (2) Are shipped in direct support of U.S. military contingency operations, exercises, or forces deployed in humanitarian or peacekeeping operations; or (3) Are commissary or exchange cargoes transported outside of the Defense Transportation System in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2643. (c) The Contractor and its subcontractors may request that the Contracting Officer authorize shipment in foreignflag vessels, or designate available U.S.-flag vessels, if the Contractor or a subcontractor believes that -(1) U.S.-flag vessels are not available for timely shipment; (2) The freight charges are inordinately excessive or unreasonable; or (3) Freight charges are higher than charges to private persons for transportation of like goods. (d) The Contractor must submit any request for use of other than U.S.-flag vessels in writing to the Contracting Officer at least 45 days prior to the sailing date necessary to meet its delivery schedules. The Contracting Officer will process requests submitted after such date(s) as expeditiously as possible, but the Contracting Officer's failure to grant approvals to meet the shipper's sailing date will not of itself constitute a compensable delay under this or any other clause of this contract. Requests shall contain at a minimum -(1) Type, weight, and cube of cargo; (2) Required shipping date; (3) Special handling and discharge requirements; (4) Loading and discharge points; (5) Name of shipper and consignee; (6) Prime contract number; and (7) A documented description of efforts made to secure U.S.-flag vessels, including points of contact (with names and telephone numbers) with at least two U.S.-flag carriers contacted. Copies of telephone notes, telegraphic and facsimile message or letters will be sufficient for this purpose. (e) The Contractor shall, within 30 days after each shipment covered by this clause, provide the Contracting Officer and the Maritime Administration, Office of Cargo Preference, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, one copy of the rated on board vessel operating carrier's ocean bill of lading, which shall contain the following information: (1) Prime contract number;

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 47 of 48 (2) Name of vessel; (3) Vessel flag of registry; (4) Date of loading; (5) Port of loading; (6) Port of final discharge; (7) Description of commodity; (8) Gross weight in pounds and cubic feet if available; (9) Total ocean freight in U.S. dollars; and (10) Name of the steamship company. (f) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts that are for a type of supplies described in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause. (End of clause)

MVP-001 DATA DELIVERABLES Two copies of all data will be delivered on appropriate media (i.e. CDROM, DVD, Portable hard drive etc.). All deliverables will be sent to: US Army Corps of Engineers ATTN: Chief, Civil Section (EC-D) 180 Fifth Street East, Suite 401 St. Paul, MN 55101 General Deliverables: General Deliverables include but are not limited to: Design Reports, Plans and Specifications, O&M manuals, environmental reports, photographs, cultural survey/information, Microfilm/Microfiche, monitoring reports, Compliance reports, etc... All geospatial deliverables (defined below) must include Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) compliant metadata. Standard Geospatial Deliverables: Geospatial data include GIS drawings/maps, hydrographic surveys, topographic mapping, georeferenced digital drawings generated from hard copy maps/drawings, high-order geodetic control (horizontal and vertical) surveys using Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and conventional survey techniques for control and property/boundary surveys, controlled and non-controlled aerial photography (film, photos, and digital output), photogrammetric mapping including aero-triangulation, digital-orthophotography image file and map production, remote sensing, radar and satellite imagery and/or aerial imagery products. GNSS Data: The Contractor shall collect and submit to the government the GNSS observables (L1/L2) in both the GNSS receiver's native format and the Receiver Independent Exchange Format (RINEX) for all Real Time

W912ES-13-T-0103 0001 Page 48 of 48 Kinematic and Static Surveys. A completed observation log sheet is required for each base station occupation/session. Benchmark Documentation: The Contractor shall describe all recovered and/or established survey/ground control points including gage reference points (if applicable), using the latest U-SMART form available at https://rsgis.crrel.usace.army.mil/apex/f?p=493. The location map shall show sufficient detail such as street names and significant land marks to adequately display the general location of the mark. The image of the mark if possible should show the stamping and where possible, the horizon/setup image should show the actual setup. The image sizes shall be kept small enough to limit the size of the resultant document to 4 megabytes. The Contractor shall submit all original field books/notes/computation sheets that fully describe the geospatial data collect and all significant events related to said event. This will allow the Government to apply quality assurance measures to the data collect. See EM 1110-1-1005, Chapter 12, Section 12-4. Final Report: The Contractor shall submit a final report of the geospatial data collect that includes, at minimum, the information shown in EM 1110-1-1005, Chapter 12, Sections 12-2 or 12-3.

