
FA7012-09-T-0025

QUESTION AND ANSWER

1.  Does the request for a 1080 30fps master indicate a need to conform to European or Middle Eastern production standards? No. 


2.  Will the Director be providing an EDL (Edit Decision List) from rough cuts he/she is doing on his/her own? Or recreating rough cuts in the
on-line facility? We believe he will be “recreating.”


3.  Should contractor include travel, meals, hotel, and/or per diem for the Director's stay near the post production facility? No.



                                                              QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

                                                                 FA7012-09-T-0025



Is the show 1 hour long and being mastered to 1 HDCAM-SR tape?

            One hour final product but the actual show will be 2-3 hours long.  2 HDCAMs

How many other copies will be needed and in what format?

            Please refer the vendor to the PBS Redbook - http://www.pbs.org/producers/redbook/

What is the anticipated number of cameras hence tapes to be digitized?

            This is up to the contractor.

Should our final bid be itemized or would you like just a overall final amount?

      Up to Contracting

 It appears from another outstanding RFQ for the same event that you are requesting ISO recordings of each camera plus a line cut recording to
HDCAM for the 2 concerts.  Is this correct?

      Yes

How many production source tapes can we expect to receive to capture to Avid files?
      Approximately 40

What will the source tape's approx running time be, or how long is the show expected to run live?

      90 Minute tapes, 3 hour performance time - twice 5.



What is the required turn around for capturing the footage and delivering the drive to the director?

      2 weeks

What is the target length for the completed, edited program?

      60 Minutes

Does the final HDCAM-SR master(s) need to be RGB (4:4:4) color mode?

      Must match Red Book specs on PBS website - http://www.pbs.org/producers/redbook/

 Will we need to design and/or produce portions of or a complete graphics package (ie: open, close, bumpers, credit roll, lower thirds, etc.) or
will those elements be provided?

Needs to provide open, close and credit roll 9. Are we safe in assuming a basic color correction / legalization pass will be sufficient to
achieve the desired look for the program?

      Yes

Will our presence be required physically for the actual taping of the event in June?

      No

Will any representative from USAF or production company be attending our facility to oversee either the footage logging, or final editing?

      Yes

What are the exact final deliverables?  We have the capabilities to deliver all deliverables written in article 1.5.5 of the RFP, but would like
to know the amounts of final deliverables to help us accurately bid, if these items are considered within the terms of the contract.

      2 HDCAMS + original and master tapes - refer to PBS Red Book


