SECTION C - PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT



Requiring Office:



DLA Office of Operations Research and Resource Analysis (DORRA)

Defense Supply Center Richmond

8000 Jefferson Davis Hwy

Richmond, VA  23297-5082



C1.	BACKGROUND   



The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) is a logistics combat support agency whose primary role is to provide supplies and services to America's military forces worldwide.  A staff of over 50,000 skilled civilian and military personnel works around the clock at over 500 sites located close to our customers and suppliers.  DLA's mission includes managing over four million consumable items, processing more than 30 million distribution actions annually and administering over $900 billion in DOD and other contracts.  DLA’s support covers the entire supply chain from initial provisioning of an item, management through its useful life, and ultimately final disposal.  DLA must continue to help the warfighter maintain readiness at reduced costs to sustain both current and future operations throughout the world.  



C1.1 The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) undertook an effort to implement a Parts management strategy that relies on acquiring data from several sources, standardizing to specific ontology or standard, and then sharing with other Services and industry. While DLA has made some progress in this area, there is still much effort required to satisfy the overall DLA parts management strategy.



C1.2  Previous contract SP4703-07-D-0001 was awarded as a time and material Indefinite Quantity Contract on May 17, 2007 to XSB, Inc. Period of performance was a total of 5 years.  Historical hours for the two year base period was 16,975 hrs, first option period 5,065 hrs, second option period 6,391 hrs and third option period 9,392 hrs.  Total contract amount was $7,070,315.00.



C2.	OBJECTIVES



The objective of this Performance Work Statement (PWS) is focused on acquiring raw free text or semi-structured data from commercial or Government websites/systems that may be in multiple formats/file types and then structuring that data in accordance with multiple ontologies/standards and providing the structured data to multiple applications, websites or systems. 



The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  



The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year per FAR 52.216-19 Order Limitations.  Total of all task orders combined will not exceed the total ceiling of $9,115,885.81 for 36 months.  Funding will be provided per individual task order from the requiring activity.  The Contracting Officer will be responsible for tracking the dollars associated with the individual task orders in order to not exceed the ceiling.   When the max order per year is met, the next option period will be exercised.  



C3.	SCOPE



The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.

  Each individual PWS will require all or some of the following activities/expertise.



Automatically acquire raw spec sheets (structured, semi-structured, tabular, free text, or image) from WWW sites, catalogs, and DOD/Commercial legacy systems/applications.

Organize/structure raw data into DOD specified structures, taxonomies, and ontologies

Perform extraction of raw data In Accordance With (IAW) specified ontologies to enable parametric searching, item matching/substitution, automated sourcing, and enhanced item characteristic data.

Identify Data conflict via a reporting system that includes conflict identification, reason, suggested resolution, and statistical measure of accuracy.

Periodically update and maintain all extracted data in a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) that allows for proper audit that includes extracted data, raw data source, reason for extraction, date of extraction, and easy access to content of raw data.

Develop and maintain an inference knowledge base that allows for extraction of data based upon Subject Matter Expert input for specified domains.

Present the data via specific DB queries, reports, charts, graphs and/or via a secure web access to data.

Analyze the data to discover trends, patterns, inconsistencies, or inadequacies IAW appropriate DOD business rules.

Integrate the RDBMS or any secure website presentation of the data with other application and websites.

Investigate new sources and any emergent technologies that would expand/enhance knowledge extraction and semantic resolution from raw or semi-structured data including but not limited to: Model Based Engineering/Enterprises, Product Lifecycle Management Systems, Enterprise Business Solutions or any other Advanced Manufacturing/Engineering Enterprises.

Maintain, sustain and update all tools and deliverables as specified.



C4.	SPECIFIC TASKS.  



The vendor shall be directly responsible for ensuring accuracy, timeliness and completion of tasks identified by each delivery order.  All task deliverables will be provided in accordance with the distribution defined under Table 1.  Deliverables required under each delivery order will be defined by the specific tasking.  Only those deliverables associated with the specific task(s) /delivery order will be required.



The goal of this project is to develop and maintain technology and tools to create an automated and semi-automated process of acquiring data and structuring the data In Accordance With (IAW) specified data structure and ontology. The tasks necessary to accomplish this development are:





C4.1	Task 1 – Develop tools to acquire all available technical data from at least 50 websites: Tools will be developed for the acquisition of the following technical data:

 

C4.1.1 Part number data and name: This task will acquire an item’s catalog part number and part name.



C4.1.2 Characteristic Data: This task will acquire an item’s characteristic data that would describe the item.

           C4.1.3 Logistical Data: This task will acquire price, quantity per package, and inventory

                    

Deliverables



C4.1.1    A database that includes catalog website, part number, and part name.



C4.1.2   A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data. 



C4.1.3   A database that includes catalog website, price, quantity per package and inventory where applicable.



C4.2	Task 2 – Develop tools to Transform and standardized the acquired data in Task 1 IAW specified ontologies, data structures, and standards: Tools will be developed to transform the chaotic data acquired in task 1 to the following standardized format: 



C4.2.1 Federal Ontology:  This will standardize the data IAW the federal ontology as specified in DLA in Defense Logistics Information Services.

. Data must be standardized to at least 50 Identification Item Guides (IIGs)

          

C4.2.2 United Nations Standard Product and Service Codes (UNSPSC):  This will standardize the data IAW UNSPSC. See . Data must be standardized to at least 30 of the four digit codes.

C4.2.3 At least one other Industry or commercial Standard: This will standardize the data IAW an industry or commercial standard of the offeror’s choosing. 

         

Deliverables

C4.2.1 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of 50 IIGs



C4.2.2 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of 30 four digit codes of the UNSPC taxonomy



C4.2.3 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of the chosen industry or commercial standard.



C4.3	Task 3 - Develop and maintain a relational database:  This task will develop, maintain and provide quarterly updates to the relational database for a period of one year.

Deliverables



C4.3.1:  A database that includes the info acquired and standardized from the above efforts. Updated quarterly for a period of one year





C4.4	Task 4 - Develop a user interface to the Relational Database: This task will develop a user interface that would allow a user to query the database to allow for parametric searching of technical data delineated above. Maintain the user interface for a period of one year

Deliverables:



C4.4.1: A user interface to the database delineated above and maintained/updated for a period of one year 



C4.5	Task 5 – Program Management:  This task will support the Program manager and report on progress of the PWS



           Deliverables:



            C4.5.1:  Monthly status reports to include progress, next month’s plan and financial expenditures   



            C4.5.2:   Briefings via phone or internet on progress



            C4.5.3:  In Process Review (IPR) with major stakeholders   





C5.	QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN (QASP)



In fulfillment of this effort, the vendor shall provide the deliverables identified in Table 1 below based on the taskings included in each delivery order.  All deliverables shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) unless otherwise agreed upon.  Unless otherwise specified, the Government will have a maximum of ten (10) working days from the day the draft deliverable is received to review the document, provide comments back to the vendor, approve or disapprove the deliverable(s).  The vendor will also have a maximum of ten (10) working days from the day comments are received to incorporate all changes and submit the final deliverable to the Government.  All days identified in table 1 are intended to be workdays unless otherwise specified.



Final inspection and acceptance of all work performed, reports and other deliverables, will be performed at the place of delivery by the COR.  The format for the individual deliverables will be determined through consultation between the COR and the vendor.  Products that reflect the vendor’s analysis and opinion (i.e. studies, analyses) may be in vendor design format.   All documents will be provided in the appropriate Microsoft Office format (e.g. Word, PowerPoint or Excel).  If appropriate, the Government may ask that products be provided in compressed PDF format.  



C5.1	Performance Requirements Summary



The identified tasks the vendor must perform include, but are not limited to the following:



C5.1.1  Acquire all available technical data from at least 50 websites



C5.1.2  Transform and standardized the acquired data in Task 1 IAW specified ontologies, data structures, and standards



	C5.1.3  Develop and maintain a relational database



	C5.1.4  Develop a user interface to the Relational Database



           C5.1.5 Program Management

	

Additional information about the deliverables produced from the identified tasks is listed in Table 1 below.  The standard set for all task is 100% Satisfactory Completion and 100% COR Inspection.  The performance payment for all tasks will be pursuant to a performance measurement that ties performance goals and acceptable quality levels to ratings: Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable.   This information is further defined in C5.5.3.  

	 

C5.2	Method of Surveillance



The surveillance method to be used is 100% COR/COTR inspection.  The Government will inspect and evaluate performance of each completed task or deliverable.  During 



the inspection, the COR will review for current task/deliverable completion.  More information about the method of surveillance can be found in Table 2 below.    



C5.3	 Inspection and Acceptance Criteria 



Final inspection and acceptance of all work performed, reports and other deliverables will be performed at the place of delivery by the COR.



C5.4  Surveillance Schedule.  The specified checks and measures will be completed on daily, weekly and monthly schedules depending on the task.  Specific surveillance schedules for tasks can be found in Table 2 below.



C5.5  Evaluation Plan.  Performance measurement progress will be tracked based on the milestone event of Vendor receiving tasking from the COR.  Performance evaluation will be based on the complexity and completion of the tasking.  The number of completed actions will be balanced against the quality of this output.  It is expected that the vendor produced documentation and procedures will comply with all major regulatory and process requirements and agency policies and procedures.  Receipt and completion of tasking is tracked through email between the COR and the vendor team lead.



C5.5.1   General Acceptance Criteria - General quality measures, as set forth below, will be applied to each work product received from the vendor under this Performance Work Statement.

Accuracy – Work products shall be accurate in presentation, technical content, and adherence to accepted elements of style.

Clarity – Work products shall be clear and concise.  Any/all diagrams shall be easy to understand and be relevant to the supporting narrative.

Consistency to Requirements – All work products must satisfy the requirements of this Performance Work Statement.

File Editing – All text and diagrammatic files shall be editable by the Government.

Format – Work products shall be submitted in hard copy (where applicable) and in media mutually agreed upon prior to submission.  Hard copy formats shall follow any specified Directives or Manuals.

Timeliness – Work products shall be submitted on or before the due dates determined/specified between the COR and vendor or submitted in accordance with a later scheduled date determined by the Government.



C5.5.2   Performance Standard/Acceptable Quality Level.  The Vendor is expected to meet the following goals:



Performance standard is a goal of 100% satisfactory and timely completion of the deliverable for each project tasking as set forth in Table 1.



Acceptable quality level is 95% of all taskings/documents prepared contain only minor defects or rewrites and 95% of all taskings/documents are processed within the agreed upon timeframe or milestone(s).



		3)  No major complaints from customer(s). 



C5.5.3   Performance Review and Payments.  



Below are the Performance Standards that will be used in evaluating performance on a monthly basis and in determining the amount of the payment owed to the vendor.



Performance standards and ratings are designed to determine if performance exceeds, meets, or does not meet a given metric and acceptable quality level.  Note: The application of these performance ratings or failure of the Government to apply these performance ratings does not waive any of the Government’s rights to damages under this contract.  The following ratings shall be used:





The performance will be rated each month by the COR.  These findings will be the basis for the amount paid for that month.  The ratings, as described in the table above, will be based on the performance of the contractor on the timeliness and quality of the services provided using the rating scale for each criterion as shown below.  



Performance below that specified as the acceptable quality level will result in review for termination action.  

  

TABLE 1:  DELIVERABLES



The table below (Table 1) identifies the Deliverables resulting from the above 



defined tasks and will be determined by the requirements of each delivery order:





TABLE 2:  PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS



The table below (Table 2) identifies the Performance Requirements resulting from the above defined deliverables:





C6.	VENDOR QUALITY CONTROL PLAN (QCP)  



The vendor shall maintain a quality control program to ensure services are performed in accordance with this contract and established commercial and regulatory standards.  The vendor shall submit a Quality Control Plan within 10 business days of contract award to the COR.  This plan shall describe the Vendor’s methodology of compliance with the Deliverables and Performance Requirements Summary outlined above.  The COR will notify the vendor of concurrence or required modifications to the QCP within 10 business days of receipt.  The vendor shall make appropriate modifications within 5 business days of the COR’s notification and provide a revised QCP within 5 business days.  An integrated product/program schedule (see section C4.1, paragraph 3) is required for each assigned delivery order.  



C7. 	PERSONNEL.



C7.1 	Personnel Qualifications, Labor Categories and Personnel Minimum Requirements   



The vendor will conduct all work under this contract using the following labor categories or equivalent labor categories.  Key personnel must possess an IT-II security clearance or an active NACLC at time of proposal submission.  For IT-II a National Agency Check with Law and Credit Checks (NACLC) is required. 

All Vendor personnel must possess the following minimum knowledge and skills:

                          

Junior Programmer/Junior Software Engineer (Non-Key)

                                                   

Education/Experience: Some college course work completed in Computer Science, Engineering, or Applied Math. Less than 1 year of work experience is required

.

Description and Job Functions: Performs a variety of programming assignments requiring knowledge of established programming and data processing procedures. Maintains and modifies programs, designs, codes, tests and maintains software applications and programs.  Loads and processes data, trains knowledge bases, supports and maintains databases and web user interfaces.  Other duties as assigned.  Works under the supervision of Senior Programmers, the Software Engineering Manager or CTO.



Programmer/Software Engineer (Key)                                                                        



Education/Experience:  Bachelor’s Degree, typically in Computer Science, Engineering, or Applied Math or equivalent experience and a minimum 1 year of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Performs a variety of programming assignments requiring knowledge of established programming procedures and data processing requirements.  Designs, codes, tests and maintains appropriate software applications and programs utilizing the appropriate hardware, database, and programming technology. Analyzes performance of programs and takes action to correct deficiencies. Supports the maintenance and operating efficiency of a major system, such as database management systems or web user interface. Writes and maintains programming documentation. Other duties as assigned. Works under the supervision of Senior Programmers, the Software Engineering Manager or CTO.

CTO.



Knowledge Engineer (Key)                                                                                           



Education/Experience: Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent experience and a minimum of 2 years of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Collects and defines project data requirements, supports developing application architecture to meet the information requirements of a project, establishes and maintains performance measures relating to data management and standards, manages content, ensures quality and promotes knowledge sharing, collects product specifications and related data, creates and maintains knowledge bases, analyzes data and prepares analyses and reports. Other duties as assigned. Works under the supervision of the Software Engineering Manager, Senior Knowledge Engineer and/or CTO.



Senior Programmer/Senior Software Engineer (Key)                                                



Education/Experience: Master’s Degree, typically in Computer Science, Engineering, or Applied Math or equivalent experience and a minimum of 5 years of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Performs a variety of programming assignments requiring knowledge of established programming procedures and data processing requirements.  Designs, codes, tests and maintains appropriate software applications and programs utilizing the appropriate hardware, database, and programming technology. Analyzes performance of programs and takes action to correct deficiencies. Prime accountability for the maintenance and operating efficiency of a major system such as database management systems or web user interfaces. Writes and maintains programming documentation. Other duties as assigned. Works under the supervision of the Software Engineering Manager and/or CTO.



Program Manager (Key)                                                                                              



Education/Experience: Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent experience and a minimum of 5 years of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Identifies the needs of the customer; develops statement of work with customer, develops and leads the development of a stable activity model for the customer, defines performance measures and   metrics, manages project scope and   budget, negotiates application functionality and features with the customer and development team.  Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.



Senior Knowledge Engineer (Key)                                                                                



Education/Experience: Ph.D., typically in Computer Science, Engineering, or Applied Math or equivalent experience and a minimum of 15 years of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Identifies the needs of the customer; develops and leads the development of a stable activity model for the customer; defines performance measures and metrics. Collects and defines project data requirements, Prime accountability for the development of application architecture to meet the information requirements of a project, establishes and maintains performance measures relating to data management and standards, manages content, ensures data quality and promotes knowledge sharing, collects product specifications and related data, creates and maintains knowledge bases, analyzes data and prepares analyses and reports. Other duties as assigned. Reports to the CTO.



Chief Technical Officer (CTO)    (Key)                                                                        



Education/Experience: Master’s Degree, typically in Computer Science, Engineering or Applied Math or equivalent experience and a minimum of 5 years of work experience.



Description and Job Functions: Responsible for maintaining the overall technology vision of the company as well as the product vision and roadmap for each project.   Identifies the needs of the customer and ensures that products are built to the specifications of the customer.   Manages and oversees staff of software engineers to architect, design, test & implement software applications and/or systems. Develops

& Implements disciplined development strategies, processes, and tools for staff and employs effective project management techniques to oversee development schedules, quality processes, and to control and manage development/project budgets.  Provides Program Management services as well technology architecture design and implementation functions.   Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Reports to the President/CEO.



Software Engineering Manager  (Key)                                                                      



Education/Experience: Master’s Degree, typically in Computer Science, Engineering, or Applied Math or equivalent experience and a minimum of 4 years of Work Experience.



Description and Job Functions:   Manages a team of software engineers to architect, design, test & implement   software   applications   and/or   systems.   Develops   product   requirements   documents, implements and tracks development timelines & budgets, allocates resources to accomplish goals, negotiates application functionality and features with the customer and development team.  Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Reports to the CTO.

experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Reports to the CTO.



Additional clearances including special access programs may be required and will be identified on an as-needed basis.  The vendor shall adhere to all DoD security regulations, requirements, and processes concerning the handling and storage of classified information. 



The Government will provide vendor personnel with administrative security support.  The Government will provide security badges and passes for access to controlled areas upon verification of security clearances.  The vendor shall abide by the Government security management regulations and procedures.



   

C7.1.1.     DLAD Clause 52.204-9000 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (MAR 2012) Vendors are to adhere to DLAD Clause 52.204-9000:



(a)  Work to be performed under this contract or task order may, in full or in part, be performed at the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Headquarters (HQ) or other DLA field activity office(s), with physical access to a Federally-controlled facility.  Prior to beginning work on a contract, DLA and its field activity offices require all contractor personnel working on the Federally-controlled facility to have a favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI) or NACI equivalent.  



(b)  Additionally, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Programs, and DLA Issuance 4314,  Personnel Security Program, all DoD Contractor personnel who have access to Federally-controlled information systems must be assigned to positions which are designated at one of three information technology (IT) levels, each requiring a certain level of investigation and clearance, as follows:  



(1)  IT-I for an IT position requiring a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) or SSBI equivalent; 



(2)  IT-II for an IT position requiring a National Agency Check with Law and Credit (NACLC) or NACLC equivalent; and 



(3)  IT-III for an IT position requiring a NACI or equivalent.





(c)  Previously completed security investigations may be accepted by the Government in lieu of new investigations if determined by the DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office to be essentially equivalent in scope to the contract requirements.  The length of time elapsed since the previous investigation will also be considered in determining whether a new investigation is warranted.  To assist the Government in making this determination, the Contractor must provide the following information to the respective DLA Personnel Security Office immediately upon receipt of the contract.  This information must be provided for each Contractor employee who will perform work on a Federally-controlled facility and/or will require access to Federally-controlled information systems: 



(1)  Full name, with middle name, as applicable, with social security number; 



(2)  Citizenship status with date and place of birth; 



(3)  Proof of the individual’s favorably adjudicated background investigation or NACI, consisting of identification of the type of investigation performed, date of the favorable adjudication, and name of the agency that performed the investigation;



(4)  Company name, address, phone and fax numbers with email address; 



(5)  Location of on-site workstation or phone number if off-site (if known by the time of award); and



(6)  Delivery order or contract number and expiration date; and name of the Contracting Officer. 



(d)  The Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor is notified as soon as a determination is made by the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office regarding acceptance of the previous investigation and clearance level.  



(1)  If a new investigation is deemed necessary, the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be notified by the respective DLA Personnel Security Office after appropriate checks in DoD databases have been made.  



(2)  If the Contractor employee requires access to classified information and currently does not have the appropriate clearance level and/or an active security clearance, the DLA Personnel Security Office will relay this information to the Contractor and Contracting Officer for further action.  



(3)  The Contracting Officer will ensure that the respective DLA Personnel Security Office initiates the investigation for the required clearance level(s) of the Contractor personnel.  



(4)  It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure that adequate information is provided and that each Contractor employee completes the appropriate paperwork, as required either by the Contracting Officer or the DLA Personnel Security Office, in order to begin the investigation process for the required clearance level.  



(e)  The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that each Contractor employee assigned to the position has the appropriate security clearance level.  



(f)  The Contractor shall submit each request for IT access and investigation through the contracting officer to the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office.  Requests shall include the following information and/or documentation: 



(1)  Standard Form (SF) 85, Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or the SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions (see note below);



(2)  Proof of citizenship (i.e., an original or a certified copy of a birth certificate, passport, or naturalization certificate); and 



(3)  Form FD-258, fingerprint card (however, fingerprinting can be performed by the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office).





(g)  Required documentation, listed above in paragraphs (f) (1) through (3), must be provided by the Contractor as directed by the Contracting Officer to the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office at the time of fingerprinting or prior to the DLA Security Office releasing the investigation to the Office of Personnel Management. 



(h)  Upon completion of the NACI, NACLC, SSBI, or other sufficient, appropriate investigation, the results of the investigation will be forwarded by the office performing the investigation to either the appropriate adjudication facility for eligibility determination or the DLA Intelligence Security Division for review and determination regarding the applicant’s suitability to occupy an unescorted entry position in performance of the DLA contract.  Contractor personnel shall not commence work on this effort until the investigation has been favorably adjudicated or has been waived into the position pending completion of adjudication.  The DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office will ensure that results of investigations will be sent by the office performing the investigation to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) or DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office.



(i)  A waiver for an IT-I or IT-II position to allow assignment of an individual Contractor employee to commence work prior to completion of the investigation may be granted in emergency situations when it is determined that a delay would be harmful to national security.  A request for waiver will be considered only after the Government is in receipt of the individual Contractor employee’s completed forms.  The request for a waiver must be approved by the Commander/Director or an authorized representative of the site.  The cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office reserves the right to determine 

whether a waiver request will be forwarded for processing, however, there will be no waiver for an IT-III position.  The individual Contractor employee for which the waiver is being requested may not be assigned to a position, that is, physically work at the Federally-controlled facility and/or be granted access to Federally-controlled information systems, until the waiver has been approved.



(j)  The requirements of this clause apply to the prime Contractor and any subcontractors the prime Contractor may employ during the course of this contract, as well as any temporary employees that may be hired by the Contractor.  The Government retains the right to request removal of Contractor personnel, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status whose actions, while assigned to this contract, who are determined by the Contracting Officer to conflict with the interests of the Government.  If such removal occurs, the Contractor shall assign qualified personnel, with the required investigation, to any vacancy.



(k)  All Contractor personnel who are granted access to Government and/or Federally-controlled information systems shall observe all local automated information system (AIS) security policies and procedures as provided by the DLA site Information Systems Security Officer.  Violations of local AIS security policy, such as password sharing, performing personal work, file access violations, or browsing files outside the scope of the contract, will result in removal of the Contractor employee from Government property and referral to the Contractor for appropriate disciplinary action.  Actions taken by the Contractor in response to a violation will be evaluated and will be reflected in the Contractor’s performance assessment for use in making future source selection decisions.  In addition, based on the nature and extent of any violations of AIS security policy, the Government will consider whether it needs to pursue any other actions under the contract such as a possible termination. 



(l)  The Contractor is also required to obtain a common access card (CAC) for each contractor employee in accordance with procedures established at the DLA HQ or field activity office.  When a CAC is required, the Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor follows the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12.



(m)  Contractor personnel must additionally receive operations security (OPSEC) and information security (INFOSEC) awareness training.  The DLA annual OPSEC refresher training and DLA annual INFOSEC training will satisfy these requirements and are available through the DLA Intelligence Office.



(n)  When a Contractor employee who has been granted a clearance is removed from the contract, the Contractor shall provide an appropriately trained substitute who has met or will meet the investigative requirements of this clause.  The substitute may not begin work on the contract without written documentation, signed by the Contracting Officer, stating that the new Contractor employee has met one of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), or (i) of this clause, (i.e., acceptance of a previously completed security investigation, satisfactory completion of a new investigation, or a waiver allowing work to begin pending completion of an investigation).  Contractor individual employees removed from this contract as a result of a violation of local AIS security policy are removed for the duration of the contract.   



(o)  The Contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing, within 12 hours, when a Contractor employee working on this contract resigns, is reassigned, terminated or no longer requires admittance to the Federally-controlled facility or access to Federally-controlled information systems.  When the Contractor employee departs, the Contractor will relay departure information to the cognizant DLA Security Office so appropriate databases can be updated.  The Contractor will ensure each departed employee has completed the DLA J6 Out-Processing Checklist, when applicable, for the necessary security briefing, has returned any Government-furnished equipment, returned the DoD CAC and DLA (or equivalent) badge, returned any DoD or DLA vehicle decal, and requested deletion of local area network account with a prepared Department of Defense (DD) form 2875.  The Contractor will be responsible for any costs involved for failure to complete the out-processing, including recovery of Government property and investigation involved.



(p)  These Contractor security requirements do not excuse the Contractor from meeting the delivery schedule set forth in the contract, or waive the delivery schedule in any way.  The Contractor shall meet the required delivery schedule unless the contracting officer grants a waiver or extension. 



(q)  The Contractor shall not bill for personnel, who are not working on the contract while that Contractor employee’s clearance investigation is pending.  





	

C7.2	Personnel Replacement.  Certain skilled, experienced, professional and/or technical personnel are essential for successful accomplishment of the work to be performed. These are defined as “Key Personnel” and are those persons whose resumes are to be submitted as part of the technical proposal for evaluation purposes.  The Vendor agrees to use said personnel during contract performance and that they shall not be removed from the contract work, replaced, or supplemented with additional personnel, unless authorized in accordance with the following provisions:





Vendor shall not substitute key personnel assigned to perform work under this contract without prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. All Vendor requests for key personnel substitution shall be in writing and shall provide for a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitution(s). Requests must contain a complete resume for the proposed substitute and any other information as requested by the Contracting Officer. Proposed substitutions must have qualifications that are equal to or greater than the key personnel being replaced. The Contracting Officer shall evaluate all such requests and within 15 business days of receipt, promptly notify the Vendor in writing whether the proposed substitution is acceptable.



If the failure to supply an acceptable replacement for key personnel impacts contract performance, the Government will take action.



These provisions shall be fully applicable to any subcontract, at any tier, which the prime Vendor may enter into.



Key personnel, including all replacements are subject to the vendor security requirements stated in the PWS.



C7.3  Utilization of Vendor’s Proposed Personnel

In order to ensure a smooth and orderly startup of the contract, it is essential that the key personnel specified in the Vendor’s proposal be available and ready for work on the effective date of the order.



C7.4  Vendor Employees.  Vendor personnel shall present a neat appearance and be easily recognized as vendor employees by wearing a Security Identification Badge at all times while on Government premises.  When Vendor personnel attend meetings, answer phones, and work in other situations where their status is not obvious to third parties they must identify themselves as such to avoid creating the impression that they are government employees.



C7.5  Vendor/Vendor Interfaces.  The Vendor may be required as part of the performance of this effort to work with other vendors/vendors working for the Government.  Such other vendors shall not direct this vendor in any manner.  Also, this vendor shall not direct the work of other Vendors in any manner.  



C7.6  Disclosure of Information.  Information made available to the vendor by the Government for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer. The vendor agrees to assume responsibility for protecting the confidentiality of Government records, which are not public information.  Each vendor or employee of the vendor to whom information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the vendor that such information may be disclosed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein.



C7.7  Limited Use of Data.  Performance of this effort may require the vendor to access and use data and information proprietary to a Government agency or Government vendor which is of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of this effort, would be adverse to the interests of the Government and/or others. Vendor and/or vendor personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained in performance of this effort, until made public by the Government, except to authorize Government personnel or upon written approval of the Contracting Officer (CO).  The vendor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend, other than as required in the performance of this effort.  Nothing herein shall preclude the use of any data independently acquired by the vendor without such limitations or prohibit an agreement at no cost to the Government between the vendor and the data owner which provides for greater rights to the vendor.



C7.8  Payments for Unauthorized Work.  No payments will be made for any unauthorized supplies and /or services or for any unauthorized changes to the work specified herein.  This includes any services performed by the Vendor of their own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer.  Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and conditions under this effort.



C7.9  Physical Security.  The vendor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property provided for vendor use.  At the end of normal duty hours and/or after normal duty hours, all government facilities, equipment and materials must be secured.



C7.10  Relocation Cost.  No costs will be allowed for relocating vendors employees assigned to work under this contract.  The vendor shall ensure that no such costs are included in the proposal.  



	

C8.   	PLACE OF PERFORMANCE.

	

The majority of the effort shall be performed at the Vendor’s facility but there may be limited travel required to support several of the project tasks defined herein. The PM/COTR must approve in writing work to be conducted outside the Vendor offices or HQ’s, DLA.



C9.  	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE.



The Period of Performance (POP) shall be for one (1) Base Period of one year and two (2) one year option periods.  The POP reads as follows:



Base Period			12 Months after date of award

Option Period 1		13 to 24 Months after date of award 

Option Period 2		25 to 36 Months after date of award



The Government may exercise the option(s) to extend the term of the contract by written notice to the Vendor within 30 calendar days prior to contract expiration provided, that the Government shall give the Vendor a preliminary written notice of its intent to exercise the option at least 60 days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.



C10.	 ADMINISTRATIVE CONSIDERATIONS.



To promote timely and effective administration, correspondence will be subject to the following procedures:



Technical correspondence (technical issues relating to compliance with the requirements) will be addressed to the COTR/PM with an information copy to the COR.



All other correspondence, including invoices and documents which propose or otherwise involve waivers, deviations or modifications to the requirements, terms or conditions of this PWS, will be addressed to the Contracting Officer.



C11.	 RIGHTS, TITLE AND OWNERSHIP.  



        C11.1 DATA/TECHNICAL RIGHTS



The government shall receive Unlimited Rights to all data and technical information produced or delivered under this contract including: all data first produced in the performance of the contract; all government data furnished to vendor and corrected in the performance of the contract; and all other data delivered under the contract which is not marked with a limited rights or a restricted rights legend. 



The vendor shall retain the right to: use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish data and ontologies first produced in the performance of a contract, except to the extent such data may be subject to Federal export control or to national security laws or regulations.  In addition, the vendor shall retain the right to: use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish government data and technical information which is freely and generally available to the public or that the vendor receives or is given access to during the performance of the contract from or by the Government or others acting on behalf of the Government.  Vendor rights shall not apply to any government data or technical information that contains restrictive markings, or is specifically coded as proprietary.



          Under the provisions of the Rights in Data General Clause (52.227-14) (DEC  

          2007) and 52.227-14 ALT II (DEC 2007) the Government reserves all rights,                

          including copyrights, distribution rights, and other rights for all documents, data 

          or software developed in the performance of this task.  The following clauses 

          also apply: 



           DFARS 252.227-7013 Rights in Data – Noncommerical Items; 

           DFARS 252.227-7014 Rights in NonCommercial Computer Software and                            

                        Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation; 

           DFARS 252.227-7015 Technical Data-Commercial Items; 

           DFARS 252.227-7016 Rights in Bid or Proposal Information;

           DFARS 252.227-7017 Identification and Assertion of Use, Release, or Disclosure        

                        Restrictions;

           DFARS 252.227-7025 Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government- 

                        Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends;

           DFARS 252.227-7030 Technical Data--Withholding of Payment;

           DFARS 252.227-7037 Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data





C11.2 SOFTWARE RIGHTS



The government shall receive a restricted rights license to all ontologies and software products developed and delivered under this contract.



           C11.3 PRIVACY ACT REQUIREMENTS



Performance under the BPAs and any resultant task orders may require the vendor to access data and information proprietary to the Government agency or of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of the PWS would be adverse to the interest of the Government or others. The vendor will not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained in performance of the PWS except to authorize Government personnel or upon written approval of the Contracting Officer. The vendor will not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data, which bears a restrictive legend, other than as required in the performance of the PWS. The limitations above do not apply to data or information, which has been made public by the Government. Further, this provision does not preclude the use of any data independently acquired by the vendor without such limitations or prohibit an agreement at no cost to the Government between the vendor and the data owner that provides for greater rights to the vendor.



Vendor personnel visiting any Government facility in support of the resultant task orders shall be subject to the Standards of Conduct applicable to Government employees. Site-specific regulations regarding access to classified or sensitive materials, computer facility access, issue of security badges, etc. will be provided as required.



All products produced and their associated work papers are to be considered the property of the DLA.



C11.4	DATA USE, DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND HANDLING OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION



The vendor will maintain, transmit, retain in strictest confidence, and prevent the unauthorized duplication, use, and disclosure of information. The vendor will provide information only to employees, contractors, and subcontractors having a need to know such information in the performance of their duties.



Information made available to the vendor by the Government for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer. Vendor personnel will be required to sign a non-disclosure statement.



If proprietary information is provided to the vendor for use in performance or administration of this effort, the vendor except with the written permission of the Contracting Officer may not use such information for any other purpose. If the vendor is uncertain about the availability or proposed use of information provided for the performance or administration, the vendor will consult with the COR regarding use of that information for other purposes.



The vendor agrees to assume responsibility for protecting the confidentiality of Government records which are not public information. Each employee of the vendor to whom information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the vendor that such information may be disclosed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein.



Performance of this effort may require the vendor to access and use data and information proprietary to a Government agency or Government Contractor which is of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of this effort, would be adverse to the interests of the Government and/or others.



Vendor and vendor personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained in performance of this effort, until made public by the Government, except to authorize Government personnel or upon written approval of the Contracting Officer. The vendor will not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend, other than as required in the performance of this effort. Nothing herein shall preclude the use of any data independently acquired by the vendor without such limitations or prohibit an agreement at no cost to the Government between the vendor and the data owner that provides for greater rights to the vendor.



All data received, processed, evaluated, loaded, and/or created as a result of any task order shall remain the sole property of the Government unless specific exception is granted by the Contracting Officer.





C12.   POINTS OF CONTACT  



C12.1	Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) and Program Manager (PM)



To be appointed at time of award.



       	C12.2	Contracting Officer’s Representatives 

		

		Will be appointed at time of award.



C12.	 INVOICING.  



The Vendor shall invoice no more frequently than MONTHLY.  The invoice should include the specific performance standards performed and accepted, and associated performance payments being invoiced for the month. Travel charges must contain location and dates, and items must be identified by subject (i.e. meals, rental car, and airfare) and be in accordance with the Federal Joint Travel regulations.  Other invoice requirements are set forth in FAR 52.232-25. The vendor shall send all invoices directly to the COR and an advance copy to the COTR.  Within seven days of the receipt of the invoice, the COTR will review for accuracy and verify the labor hours/services/supplies and travel to the COR.  Inaccurate invoices will be returned to the Vendor within seven days for correction.





C13.	SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.  Any/all electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this effort must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.  36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended, and are viewable at http://www.section508.gov.	





C14.   TRAVEL. The estimated travel amount for the Base Year and each Option Period is $5,000.00, for a total 3-year estimated travel budget of $15,000.00.  



C15.   HARDWARE.   The estimated amount of hardware for the base and each option year is $10,000.










The following clauses are incorporated into this RFP:

The following clauses are incorporated by reference for this requirement.  For full text of the clauses, go to  or . 



                    Additional Clauses to DFARS 252.212-7001



Clauses in full text: 

52.216-18  Ordering. 

Ordering (Oct 1995) 

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from Effective Date of Award Through:  One Year After Effective Date of Award.

(b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. 

(c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered “issued” when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. 

(End of clause) 

52.216-19  Order Limitations. 

Order Limitations (Oct 1995) 

(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than _$25,000_____the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. 

(b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor— 

(1) Any order for a single item in excess of __$3,080,000 ;

 (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of   $9,115,885.81 ; or 

(3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within __30___________ days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. 

(c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. 

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within __10___ days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. 

(End of clause) 

52.216-22  Indefinite Quantity. 

Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995) 

(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. 

(b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the “maximum.” The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the “minimum.” 

(c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. 

(d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _one year after date of award. 

(End of clause) 



52.217-5  Evaluation of Options. 

Evaluation of Options (July 1990) 



Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR (b) not to be in the Government’s best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). 

(End of provision) 

52.217-8  Option to Extend Services. 

As prescribed in (f), insert a clause substantially the same as the following: 

Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) 

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within _60__ [insert the period of time within which the Contracting Officer may exercise the option]. 

(End of clause) 

52.217-9  Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. 

As prescribed in (g), insert a clause substantially the same as the following: 

Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) 

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within __30___ [insert the period of time within which the Contracting Officer may exercise the option]; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least _____ days [60 days unless a different number of days is inserted] before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed _____36______ (months). 














Section J – LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

 











PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE, See Attachment 1



REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS, See Attachment 2




SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS 





L1.  Proposal Requirements



	     L1.1  General Information



	The proposal response will include a written portion to support evaluation of technical capability.  This section specifies the format and content that vendors shall use for proposals responding to this RFP.  It is required that vendors respond in accordance with these instructions.  The goal is not to restrict vendors in the manner in which they will perform their work but rather to ensure a certain degree of uniformity in the format of the responses for evaluation purposes.  In order to receive full consideration, vendors are encouraged to ensure that the information provided within their proposal is factual, accurate and complete.

	Each vendor shall submit a proposal that clearly and concisely describes and defines the vendor’s response to the objectives/requirements contained in the RFP.  Unnecessary elaboration or other presentations beyond that sufficient to present a complete and effective proposal are not desired.  Elaborate artwork, expensive paper or bindings, and expensive visual or other presentation aids are neither necessary nor desired.  The proposal shall contain all the pertinent information in sufficient detail in the area of the proposal where it contributes most critically to the discussion of the same information in the RFP.  When necessary, the vendor shall refer to the initial discussion and identify its location within the proposal.  Vendors should also identify risks inherent in their proposal, techniques used to mitigate those risks, and where such techniques were successfully employed in other contracts.



	If a vendor does not understand the instructions contained herein, then written notification should be provided to the Contracting Officer for clarification sufficiently in advance of the deadline for receipt of proposals to get an answer in time to meet the deadline.  The Government will publish the questions asked and the answers given, and make distribution to all prospective vendors.



	Vendors who take exception to the provisions, terms and conditions, or any other aspect, of this request, may provide for such exceptions in Section L.2 (refer to Executive Summary – Vendor Qualifications).  Alternate proposals are not authorized.  Objections to any terms and conditions of the RFP may make the proposals unacceptable.  A vendor may correct a deficiency only through discussions.



	The Government will process late submissions of proposals in accordance with FAR 52.215-1.  If a proposal is received late and is not eligible for consideration in accordance with FAR 52.215-1 and Alternate I, then the Government will reject that proposal without evaluation.



	  L1.2  Proposal Volumes 



Vendors are required to submit their proposals in separate binders and volumes as indicated below.  There shall be no reference to pricing in the Non-Price proposal or in the cover letter or executive summary.



Proposals submitted shall be contained in two separate volumes with tabs separating chapters in the required number of copies as follows:  ORIGINAL plus 2 copies for Non-Price and ORIGINAL copy for Price.



VENDORS:   In accordance with FAR 3.104-4, it is required that your company  mark any material that may be source selection information as described at paragraph (10) of the “source selection information” definition in FAR 2.101 to include the cover page and each page that may contain source selection information with the legend “Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104.”  



Volume I:	  Non-Price Proposal :  3 Copies 

                                      Factor  1.  Technical / Risk

                                              Sub-factor A:  Management Approach and 

                                                                       Capabilities

                                              Sub-factor B:  Technical Approach   

		                              Sub-factor C:  Personnel Qualifications

                                      

                                      Factor  2:  Past Performance / Performance Confidence 

                                                                                          Assessment 

                                               Aspect One: Relevancy of Prior Contracts

                                               Aspect Two: Quality of Historical Projects

                                    

 

Volume II:	  Price Proposal – 1 copy 

                                      Factor 3:  Price

				

Each volume shall contain the following items in addition to the non-price and price proposal data required by the RFP:





Note: the Cover Page and Table of Contents are not included in page counts with respect to page limitations (see section L1.3).



L1.3 Written Response



The RFP’s written proposal must be organized according to the following format, within the page limitations indicated, and include chapters for each of the following:



		         



At a minimum, each chapter should address all information contained in Sections L1.3 and L1.4.



The vendor is responsible for providing adequate documentation to enable a thorough evaluation of the proposal.



All spreadsheet information should be on functional EXCEL spreadsheet(s) (e.g. Total Column utilizes equation that sums appropriate lower level items).

	L1.4  Proposal Content



It is required that vendors follow the proposal instructions stated in Sections L1 through L4 and comply with the page specifications identified in Section L1.3 (Written Response) of this document. 



Note:  Pages exceeding the respective page limitations will not be considered part of the proposal.  Font must be no lower than 10.





L2.  SIGNED VENDOR COVER LETTER FOR RFP AND EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



	L2.1 Signed Copy of Vendor Cover Letter for RFP Submission.  The vendor shall include a signed copy of the RFP’s cover letter on company letterhead as part of the proposal submission.  The cover letter must contain a statement committing the Vendor's firm to the proposal and stating its validity for a period of at least 120 days.  The letter should also include the name, title, phone number and e-mail address for the persons authorized to negotiate with the Government in connection with the proposal. The letter must be signed by a responsible officer or partner/principal of the firm that is authorized to bind the organization contractually.  The letter must also contain a statement that the proposal meets the specifications of each sub-section of the RFP. 



	L2.2 Executive Summary Requirement:  This summary will not be evaluated but will be used to gain an understanding of the overall proposal contents.  It should identify and highlight significant features of the proposal and include the salient points contained in the various volumes and chapters.

	The following format should be followed in developing the summary:

1.  General Information (see Note 1)

2.  An overview of Technical Capability

3.  RFP Qualifications (see Note 2)

(Note 1):  The General Information section of the Executive summary should include 		 the following information:

 Company name and address, 

 Company Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) 

 Dun and Bradstreet number

 CAGE code

 The address that the company would like payment to be sent if different 	 	 than “a” above  	



(Note 2):  RFP qualifications are proposed deviations from the requirements contained in the Request for Quotation and resultant task order terms and conditions. Qualifications where a vendor states it will not comply with one or more of these requirements may cause proposals be considered unacceptable.  Therefore, firms must address such qualifications and provide a detailed description of any form of exceptions, deviations or waivers, and indicate the firm’s difficulty with the applicable requirement in addition to the firm’s proposed approach.  





L3.	VOLUME I – NON-PRICE PROPOSAL



	L3.1  Factor 1:  Technical / Risk:



Combined Technical / Risk Ratings, includes consideration of risk in conjunction with the strengths, weaknesses and deficiencies in determining technical ratings.  The three sub-factors affecting a vendor’s ability to meet the solicitation requirements are Management Approach and Capabilities (sub-factor A), Technical Approach (sub-factor B) and Personnel Qualifications (sub-factor C).  The Evaluation Team shall evaluate the vendor’s proposal against the minimum performance or capability requirements established by the RFP assessing the strengths, weaknesses, deficiencies and associated risks. 



	L3.1.1 Sub-Factor A: Management Approach and Capabilities (Volume I, Chapter 1)



This sub-factor is designed as an overview of the Vendor’s approach and their team partner’s approach (as applicable) to project management.  Describe in detail your Management Approach and Capabilities which shall include but not be limited to the information requested in Section M2.1.1 items a. through e.  Vendor must provide evidence demonstrating that the organization has current capabilities for assuring performance of the requirement, including those of teaming partners and/or sub-contractors, if applicable.  Also, include the roles and responsibilities of the team lead as well as team partners, if applicable. 

		

	L3.1.2.  Sub-Factor B: Technical Approach (Volume 1/Chapter 2) 



Describe in detail your approach to research, analyze and develop the specified 

deliverables and perform each specific tasking in the PWS.



L3.1.3 Sub-Factor C: Personnel Qualifications (Volume I/Chapter 3)



The Vendor shall include a plan to staff which will provide information on their proposed project team and the appropriate skill sets that the Vendor is providing to manage the project and perform the PWS Tasks as well as produce the PWS specified deliverables. The plan to staff should include the proposed labor categories, type of experience, qualifications, security clearances and certifications. The vendor shall identify key personnel as well as non-key personnel and provide resumes for the key personnel only (Section C7).  Key personnel must possess an IT-II security clearance.  For IT-II a National Agency Check with Law and Credit Checks (NACLC) is required.

The personnel proposed should demonstrate they have recent and directly related experience in the areas specified in Section C3 and C4.  If experience is not directly related but relevant, discuss relevance in customer, topic, dollar value, workload, duration, and complexity to the PWS requirements. 



L3.2  Factor 2:  Past Performance / Performance Confidence Assessment (Volume 1/ Chapter 4) 



Identify your company’s past performance within the past five years (from the date of this RFP).  Vendors should relate their Past Performance to the requirements of this RFP.  There is no page limit for Past Performance. The vendor shall provide information that demonstrates the relevancy and quality of prior contracts to the requirements of this solicitation, as well as to their proposed approach.  The vendor should note that the Government might seek additional past performance information from other sources known to the Government to assist in its evaluation (e.g. Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System [CPARS], Past Performance Information Retrieval System [PPIRS]).  The past performance evaluation results in a performance confidence assessment rating of the vendor’s probability of meeting the solicitation requirements derived at by considering each vendor’s demonstrated recent and relevant record of performance and how well the vendor performed on the contracts.  The Past Performance assessment is based on two aspects; Relevancy and Quality.  In rating past performance and deriving a performance confidence assessment rating, the following will be considered:



L3.2.1 The Vendor shall identify:

	            Aspect One:  Relevancy of Prior Contracts 



The organization’s specific past performance on prior similar efforts specified within this PWS.  Vendors will demonstrate this element via their written proposal. Include the identification of customer and point of contact to include current phone number, email address, the contract number and period of performance.   Ensure that the points of contacts for those contracts are current and that the phone numbers and email addresses are correct and current.   This source of Past Performance information will be provided in the vendor’s written proposal.  The first aspect is to evaluate the vendor’s past performance to determine how relevant a recent effort accomplished by the vendor is to the effort to be acquired.  In establishing what is relevant for the acquisition, consideration should be given to those aspects of a vendor’s contract history that would give the greatest ability to measure whether the vendor will satisfy the current procurement.  Common aspects of relevancy include similarity of service/support, complexity, dollar value, contract type and degree of subcontract/teaming.  A Relevancy rating will be assigned.  The more relevant past performance will be a stronger predictor of future success and have more influence on the performance confidence assessment than past performance of lesser relevance.



                      Aspect Two:  Quality of Historical Projects 



The second aspect is to determine how well the vendor performed on the contracts.  The organization’s history of successful completion of projects; history of producing high-quality reports and deliverables; and history of staying on schedule and within budget.  Vendors will demonstrate this element in their written proposal.  Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires (Attachment 1) will also be utilized for this element.  The past performance evaluation process gathers information from customers on how well the vendor performed those past contracts and includes history of successful completion of projects; history of producing high-quality reports and deliverables; commitment to customer satisfaction and history of staying on schedule and within budget.  



L3.2.2 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE.  Attachment 1 to this

RFP is a Past Performance Questionnaire.  Vendors should send copies to previous customers in order to document past performance.  The questionnaire should be completed by the vendor’s customers and mailed, emailed or faxed directly by those customers to the following address.  These questionnaires may be emailed directly from the customer to: martha.gay@dla.mil



            Defense Supply Center Richmond

            ATTN:  Martha Gay (DLA Contracting Services Office)

            8000 Jefferson Davis Highway               

            Richmond, VA  23297-5441

            EMAIL: martha.gay@dla.mil

            FAX: 804-279-3246



L4.	VOLUME II - PRICE PROPOSAL 

 

          L4.1 FACTOR 3:  Pricing Instructions:

Vendors are required to submit price proposals in accordance with this section. The vendors are to provide firm-fixed pricing for the Base Year and each of the two Option years to equal a total price.  Pricing is based on the Government’s estimated annual labor hours for each labor category as shown in Section B.  Estimated travel is $5,000 per year.  



Section B shall also be completed and submitted with the vendor’s price proposal as an excel spreadsheet.





L4.1.1 Labor Mix.  The labor hours for the Base Year are estimated at 17,300.  The labor mix is expected to vary from one delivery order to the next based on the individual requirements, but the mix for the overall annual total labor requirement is anticipated to approximate the estimated hours shown in Section B.  In order to establish a baseline for price analysis the vendor shall provide pricing in the form of a Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM).  Particular attention shall be paid to ensuring the correct labor categories are used in the accomplishment of individual delivery orders.  













prior history with an offeror may be used to provide a benchmark on reasonableness of the submitted proposal. 





M1.  BASIS FOR AWARD 



The award shall be made to the responsible firm whose proposal is determined to be the best value to the Government, technical factors, past performance and prices considered.  The Government’s objective is to obtain the highest quality services considered necessary to achieve the stated objectives of this acquisition, with reasonable prices.  Non-price factors, when combined, are significantly more important than price.  Firms are advised that a proposal meeting the objectives and requirements with the lowest price may not necessarily be selected if award to a higher priced proposal is determined to be most advantageous to the Government.  However, between proposals evaluated as essentially technically equal, price will become the major consideration in selecting the best value.   In the event of a single responsive proposal, the Government reserves the right to utilize a Technically Acceptable evaluation in lieu of the official Source Selection process. 



The proposal must demonstrate to the Government's satisfaction that the vendor will provide a solution and approach that will ensure the successful accomplishment of each stated requirement in Sections C3 and C4.  The Government will evaluate the submissions on the basis of the material presented in the written proposals, including any proposed alternative performance standards and percentage disincentives.  Note: the Government may use information other than that provided by the vendor in its proposal, including past performance information.  Proposal information provided for one factor may be used to assess other factors if the Government deems it appropriate.



M2.  EVALUATION FACTORS AND SUB-FACTORS



The factors in the award decision will cover Non-Price and Price. The Non-Price Factors are:  Technical / Risk and Past Performance / Performance Confidence Assessment.   The Non-Price Factors are significantly more important than Price.  Within the Non-Price Factors, Technical / Risk (factor 1) is more important than Past Performance / Performance Confidence Assessment (factor 2).  The sub-factors supporting the evaluation of factor 1 are listed in descending order of importance; Management Approach and Capabilities (sub-factor A) is more important than Technical Approach  (sub-factor B), which is more important than Personnel Qualifications (sub-factor C).

                                      

                      Factor 1.  Technical / Risk

                                          Sub-factor A:  Management Approach and Capabilities

                                          Sub-factor B:  Technical Approach   

		                      Sub-factor C:  Personnel Qualifications

                                      

                        

                             Factor 2:  Past Performance / Performance Confidence Assessment

                                          

                                          Aspect One: Relevancy of Prior Contracts   

                   		           

                                         Aspect Two: Quality of Historical Projects



                            Factor 3:  Price



M2.1 - FACTOR 1 – Technical / Risk



	M2.1.1  Sub-factor A:   Management Approach and Capabilities



 In evaluation of this factor, proposals will be evaluated to ensure:



a. Vendor’s understanding of the work, as evidenced by proposed plan for overall implementation and execution of project. 



b. Current corporate capability to perform contract, including relevant corporate experience. 



c. Evidence of a process for insuring quality and timeliness of deliverables

 

d. Evidence of reach-back capability, including subcontractors, consultants and business partners



e.  Evidence of turn-over rate and ability to rapidly hire and train personnel in a dynamic environment with changing workloads

.



M2.1.2  Sub-factor B:  Technical Approach



           In evaluation of this factor, proposals will be evaluated to ensure:



The vendor understands the work, as evidenced by the proposed plan for overall implementation and execution of project.  Vendor’s technical approach demonstrates an understanding of the PWS requirements by addressing each specific task.  Vendors are to include a discussion of methods and techniques for completing each discrete task and addressing potential problem areas to include solutions, new processes or, if applicable, new technologies. 



M2.1.3  Sub-factor C:  Personnel Qualifications



           In evaluation of this factor, proposals will be evaluated to ensure:

           Proposals will be evaluated to ensure that key personnel have the overall years 

           of experience, qualifications and education as required by the RFP. The    

           qualifications and depth of experience of individual personnel who have worked     

           on directly related projects will be evaluated.  The qualifications of individual         

           personnel who have worked on other projects which are not directly related by 

           may be relevant will be evaluated. 



Quality and depth of education and experience on other projects which may not be similar enough to include in response to Sub-factor A above, but may be relevant.



M2.2   FACTOR 2:  Past Performance / Performance Confidence Assessment



Past Performance information will be provided by the vendors to show their relevancy of prior tasks and to determine the quality of their relevant past performance, in order to assign a performance confidence assessment rating.  Evaluation will investigate information furnished by the vendor to ensure they have consistently demonstrated a commitment to administration, customer satisfaction, timely delivery, and quality goods and services in prior contracts of similar scope and complexity.  

The past performance evaluation results in a performance confidence assessment rating of the vendor’s probability of meeting the solicitation requirements, derived at by considering each vendor’s demonstrated recent and relevant record of performance and how well the vendor performed on the contracts.

The Past Performance assessment is based on two aspects; Relevancy and Quality.  In rating past performance and deriving a performance confidence assessment rating, the following will be considered:

	Aspect One:  Relevancy of Prior Contracts

The organization’s relevant past performance on prior efforts specified within this PWS.  Vendors will demonstrate this element via their written proposal.  This aspect is to evaluate the vendor’s past performance to determine how relevant a recent effort accomplished by the vendor is to the effort to be acquired.  In establishing what is relevant for the acquisition, consideration will be given to those aspects of a vendor’s contract history that would give the greatest ability to measure whether the vendor will satisfy the current procurement.  Common aspects of relevancy include similarity of service/support, complexity, dollar value, contract type and degree of subcontract/teaming.  A Relevancy rating will be assigned.  The more relevant past performance will be a stronger predictor of future success and have more influence on the performance confidence assessment than past performance of lesser relevance.

	Aspect Two:  Quality of Historical Projects

The second aspect is to determine how well the vendor performed on the contracts.  The past performance evaluation process gathers information from the vendor’s proposal on how well the vendor performed those past contracts and includes history of successful completion of projects; history of producing high-quality reports and deliverables; commitment to customer satisfaction and history of staying on schedule and within budget.  Information received from the Past Performance Questionnaires (Attachment 1) will also be utilized for this element.  A Quality rating will be assigned.

NOTE:  Evaluation will be based on information provided in Past Performance

Questionnaires and the vendor’s proposal, and may include the Government’s independent verification with vendor’s prior customers or through past performance databases such as the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS).  If the Government’s information conflicts with assertions made in the vendor’s proposal, the vendor will be asked to clarify this information.  Proposal information provided for one factor may be used to assess other factors if the Government deems it appropriate.

Past performance information will be reviewed and assessed to determine its relevancy and quality in order to assign a performance confidence assessment rating.  

Vendors will certify their size standard at the time of proposal submission.



M2.3 FACTOR 3:  Price. 

The total proposed firm-fixed price will be evaluated for reasonableness.  The total price is the sum of the proposed prices for all labor and travel for the Base Year and all Option years as indicated in Section B.  Price reasonableness is a judgment of the proposed price compared to other offers received and the Independent Government Cost Estimate.  The Government reserves the right to award a contract to other than the lowest priced offer after consideration of all factors.  

       

The government might find it necessary to exercise FAR clause 52.217-8 “Option to Extend Services” at some point in this contract.  At minimum, pricing for this clause will be evaluated in every offer prior to award as part of the pricing provided for the base year and any relevant “Option to Extend Term of the Contract” period of performance per FAR 52.217-9.  Should the “Option to Extend Services” clause be exercised, pricing will follow past practices and be set at the then current rates being utilized in the contract, prorated to the Extended Services performance periods being utilized.  For example, should this clause be exercised for a two month performance period to follow the option year one performance period of the contract, then the pricing would be set for two months at option year one pricing, barring the operation of other law.



Good – Performance meets or exceeds contract requirements in terms of timeliness and quality.  COR will make a determination to pay the contract 100% of the invoice amount. 

Fair – Performance meets contract requirements with only minor issues and the issues do not adversely impact the mission of the Agency.  Performance is satisfactory and has been timely. The COR will make a determination to pay the contractor 95% of the invoice amount.   

Poor – Performance narrowly meets contract requirements and borders on unacceptability in terms of timeliness and/or quality or performance may have an adverse impact on the mission of the Agency.  The COR will make a determination to pay the contractor 90% of the invoice amount. 

Unacceptable – Performance has been at a less than acceptable level in terms of timeliness or quality.  Possible issues include, but are not limited to:  missed milestones, low quality documents requiring multiple reviews and rewrites, significant or serious complaints submitted by the customers, documents that do not comply with acquisition or policy regulations, or one or more cure notices have been issued.  Payment will be withheld pending resolution of cure notice(s).  Termination for default or cause may result.







Timeliness 

 

Acceptable 

Meets or exceeds contract requirements in terms of timeliness of delivery.

Unacceptable 

Contractor failed to meet the timeliness requirements.  Possible issues include, but are not limited to; one or more deliverables not submitted on time or missed milestones.  One or more cure notices may have been issued by the Contracting Officer.



Note:  A deliverable is either on time or not on time.

















Quality

 

Good 

Meets or exceeds contract requirements in terms of quality of work performed.

Fair 

Performance meets contract requirements with only minor issues and the issues do not adversely impact the mission of the Agency.

Poor 

Performance narrowly meets contract requirements and borders on unacceptability in terms of quality or adverse impact on the mission of the Agency is possible.  

Unacceptable

Quality of performance has been at a less than acceptable level.  Possible issues include, but are not limited to:  low quality documents requiring multiple reviews and rewrites, significant or serious complaints submitted by the customers, documents that did not comply with acquisition or policy regulations or one or more cure notices have been issued by the Contracting Officer.













PWS Para #



Task 

Deliverable 

Reference # and Title

Quantity:

No. of Reports 

Deliverable

Due Date

C4.1

 Develop tools to Acquire all available technical data from at least 50 websites: Part number data and name.

C4.1.1 A database that includes catalog website, part number, and part name.

1

180 days After Receipt of Order (ARO)

C4.1

Develop tools to Acquire all available technical data from at least 50 websites: Characteristic data.

C4.1.2 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data.

1

180 days ARO



C4.1

Develop tools to Acquire all available technical data from at least 50 websites: Logistical data.

C4.1.3 A database that includes catalog website, price, quantity per package and inventory where applicable.

1

180 Days ARO

C4.2

Develop Tools to transform the chaotic data acquired into standardized format: Federal Ontology

C4.2.1 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of 50 IIGs

1

240 days ARO





C4.2



Develop Tools to transform the chaotic data acquired into standardized format: UNSPSC

C4.2.2 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of 30 four digit codes of the UNSPC taxonomy

1

240 days ARO



C4.2

Develop Tools to transform the chaotic data acquired into standardized format:

C4.2.3 A database that includes catalog website and any characteristic data in the standardized format of the chosen industry or commercial standard.  

1

240 days ARO



C4.3

Develop and maintain a relational database.

C4.3.1 A database that includes info acquired and standardized from tasks 1 and 2. Update quarterly for a period of 1 year 

1

320 days ARO

C4.4

Develop a user interface to the relational database.

C4.4.1 A user interface to the database delineated in task 3 and maintained/updated for a period of 1 year.  

1

360 days ARO

C4.5

Program Management

C4.5.1 Monthly Status Report



12

Monthly, 5th Workday of each Month

C4.5

Program Management

C4.5.2 Briefings



Not to exceed 6

As Required

C4.5

Program Management

C4.5.3 In Process Review (IPR) 

4

Quarterly

C

C6



Vendor Quality Control Plan (QCP)





C6



1



10 Days ARO













PWS Para #

Task Title

Deliverable Reference #, Title and Acceptable Quality Level (QL)

Surveillance Method

Performance Review

Performance Review

C4.1

Tools to Acquire Part number, Technical, and Logistical Data

C4.1.1

C4.1.2

C4.1.3



Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2



100% PM/COR Inspection





Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

C4.2

Tools to transform and standardize into Federal, UNSPSC, and one other industry or commercial ontology

C4.2.1

C4.2.2

C4.2.3



Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2



100% PM/COR Inspection





Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

C4.3

Develop and maintain relational database

C4.3.1



Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2

100% PM/COR Inspection



Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

C4.4

Develop user interface

C4.4.1



Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2



100% PM/COR Inspection





Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

C4.5

Program Management

C4.5.1

C4.5.2

C4.5.3





Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2



100% PM/COR Inspection





Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3



C6

Vendor Quality Control Plan (QCP)





Acceptable QL – see C5.5.2





100% PM/COR Inspection

Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3



Good, Fair, Poor or Unacceptable To Be Assigned Pursuant To Paragraph C5.5.3





Note:  IT levels will be designated according to the criteria in DoD 5200.2-R.



(Note to (f)(1) above:  An investigation request is facilitated through use of the SF 85 or the SF 86.  These forms with instructions as well as the Optional Form (OF) 306, Declaration for Federal Employment, which is required with submission of the SF85 or SF 86, are available at the Office of Personnel Management’s (OPM) system called Electronic –Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP).  Hard copies of the SF85 and SF86 are available at OPM’s web-site, , but hard copies of the forms are not accepted.)



SECTION I:  CONTRACT CLAUSES



52.212-01

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS:  Disregard references to the SF1449 in this provision; other instructions still apply.

52.212-02

EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS: The following evaluation criteria are included in paragraph (a) of that provision:  The contracting officer will make award based on price and requirement stated in the Statement of Work/Performance Work Statement.  

Non Price Factors:  Technical and Past Performance

52.212-03

OFFEROR REP AND CERTS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS

52.212-03

OFFEROR REP AND CERTS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS ALT I

52.212-04

CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS

52.212-05

CONTRACT T/C REQ TO IMP STAT OR EOS -- COMM ITEMS



Additional FAR Clauses to 52.212-5

52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) 

52.233-3

Protest After Award (AUG 1996)

52.233-4

Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004)

52.203-6

Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995)

52.203-13

Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) 

52.203-15



Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010)

52.204-10 

Reporting Exec. Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012)

52.209-10

Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corp (May 2012)

52.219-6     

Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011)

52.219-8  

Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011)

52.219-14                

Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011)

52.219-28

Post Award Small Business Program Representation (Apr 2009)

52.222-19

Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010)





52.222-21

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)

52.222-26

Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)

52.222-35

Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)

52.222-36

Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010)

52.222-37

Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) 

52.222-40

Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010)

52.222-54

Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009)

52.223-15

Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007)

52.223-18

Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011)

52.225-13

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008)

52.232-33

Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003)

52.239-1

Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996)

52.222-41

Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007)

52.222-42

Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989)

52.222-43

Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009)

52.222-44

Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) 

52.222-51

Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) 

52.222-53

Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) 



252.212-7001

CONT T/C REQ TO IMP STAT OR EXEC ORD APP TO ACQ OF COMM ITMS

252.203-7000

Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (Sep 2011)

252.203-7003

Agency Office of the Inspector General (Apr 2012)

252.205-7000

Provision of Information to Cooperative Agreement Holders (Dec 1991)

252.227-7013

Rights in Technical Data –Noncommercial Items (Mar 2012)

252.227-7014

Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation (Feb 2012)

252.227-7015

Technical Data – Commercial Items (Dec 2011)

252.227-7037

Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data (Sep 2011)

252.232-7003

Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (Mar 2008)

252.243-7002

Requests for Equitable Adjustment (Mar 1998)





252.212-7000

Offeror Representations and Certifications – Commercial Items (Jun 2005)

52.203-3

Gratuities (Apr 1984)

52.227-14

Rights in Data – General (Dec 2007)

52.227-14

Rights in Data – General (Dec 2007) ALT II

52.212-9000

CHANGES  MILITARY READINESS (Nov 2011)

52.246-04

INSPECTION OF SERVICES – FP  (Aug 1996)

52.246-9007

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE AT DESTINATION

52.211-17

DELIVERY OF EXCESS QUANTITIES

52.242-14

Suspension of Work (Apr 1984)

52.242-15

STOP-WORK ORDER (Aug 1989)

52.242-17

GOVERNMENT DELAY OF WORK

52.237-9002

Key Personnel – Fixed Price Service Contracts (Apr 2008)

52.246-9039

REMOVAL OF GOVT ID FROM NON-ACCEPTED SUPPLIES (Nov 2011)

252.201-7000

Contracting Officer’s Representative (Dec 1991)

52.202-1

Definitions (Jan 2012)

252.203-7000

Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (Sep 2011)

252.203-7002

REQT TO INFORM EMPLOYEES OF WHISTLEBLOWER RIGHTS (Jan 2009)

52.204-02

SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

52.204-07

CENTRAL CONTRACT REGISTRATION (Feb 2012)

52.204-09

PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (Jan 2011)





252.204-7003

CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL WORK PRODUCT

252.204-7004

ALTERNATE A (52.204-7 REQUIRED CCR) (Sep 2001)

252.204-7005

ORAL ATTESTATION OF SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES

252.204-7008

Export Controlled Items (Apr 2010)

52.204-9003

CONTRACTOR SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

52.204-9000

52.209-10

CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY (Mar 2012)

Prohibition on Contracting With Inverted Domestic Corporation (May 2012)

52.209-9014

VEHICLE REGISTRATION AND OPERATIONS (Jul 2008)

52.216-18

(see full text attached)

Ordering (Oct 1995) 



52.216-19

(see full text attached)

Order Limitations (Oct 1995) 

52.216-22

(see full text attached)

Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995)  

52.217-5

(see full text attached)

Evaluation of Options (July 1990)

52.217-8

(see full text attached)

Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)

52.217-9

(see full text attached)

Option to Extend the Term of the Contract  (Mar 2000)

52.223-05

POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION

52.223-05

POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION, ALT I

52.223-05

POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION, ALT II

52.227-1

Authorization and Consent (Dec 2007)

252.227-7016

Rights in Bid or Proposal Information (Jan 2011)

252.227-7017

Identification and Assertion of Use, Release, or Disclosure Restrictions (Jan 2011)

252.227-7025

Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government-Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends (Mar 2011)

252.227-7030

Technical Data--Withholding of Payment (Mar 2000)

52.242-13

Bankruptcy (Jul 1995)

52.243-01

Changes – Fixed Price Alt I (Aug 1987)

252.243-7001

Pricing of Contract Modifications (Dec 1991)

252.244-7000

Subcontracts for Commercial Items and Commercial Components (DoD Contracts) (Sep 2011)

52.246-20

Warranty of Services (May 2001)

52.246-25

Limitation of Liability – Services (Feb 1997)

52.249-4

Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Apr 1984)

52.239-9000

Y2K COMPLIANCE NOTICE

52.249-9000

Administrative Costs of Reprocurement after Default (May 1988)

252.246-7003

NOTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL SAFETY ISSUES

52.252-1

Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)

52.252-02

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.252-06

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES

52.215-05

FACSIMILE PROPOSALS

52.216-01

TYPE OF CONTRACT: FFP

52.233-9000

AGENCY PROTESTS

52.245-1

GOVERNMENT PROPERTY

52.204-8



Annual Representations and Certifications (May 2012)  NAICS code 5641511; Small business size standard $25.5M.

52.233-2

Service of Protest (Sep 2006) Designated is contracting officer





Cover: 

The cover should indicate the following:

      Title of the proposal

      Proposal volume 

      Volume No. 

      Name and address of vendor 

      Name and phone number of a principal point of contact





Table of Contents: 

The table of contents shall provide sufficient detail as to allow the important elements to be easily located.



Volume

Chapter 

Page Limit*

Format**

I. Signed Vendor    Cover  Letter  for RFP and Executive Summary

 (Precedes Vol.Ch. 1.)

N/A

PDF

I. Non-Price   Proposal

Factor 1: Technical / Risk





I. Non-Price   Proposal

Sub-Factor A: Management  Approach  and  

                    Capabilities                         

Sub-Factor B: Technical  Approach 

Sub-Factor C: Personnel Qualifications           

25



30

30

PDF

PDF

PDF

 

Factor  2: Past Performance/ Performance Confidence Assessment

Aspect One: Relevancy of Prior Contracts                                                         

Aspect Two: Quality of Historical Projects 



No Limit

PDF

II.  Price

Factor 3:  Price Proposal

No Limit

Excel


















































































From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

From:   DLA Contracting Services Office Richmond, ATTN:  DCSO-R, Mrs. Martha Gay

	   8000 Jefferson Davis Highway Richmond, VA 23297-5441

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PACKAGE FOR SERVICES



                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

                                                 FOR RFP:  

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

SP4703-12-R-0011

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        

Submit completed past performance questionnaire form  by   _15 August 2012 

to:  Martha Gay,  (telephone number: 804-279-5406)

                                 Providing via EMAIL IS PREFERRED.        







This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.









This office is in the process of conducting selection for a firm to provide Data Mining Parts Management Strategy Program Support for Defense Logistics Agency.





I am contacting you in reference to _______________ who has given us your name as a reference.  My questions pertain to their record of past and current performance (if applicable).  Where the term “Vendor” is used below, it refers to this firm.  The information that you provide will be used in the best value evaluation.  Therefore, it is important that your information be as factual and accurate as possible.





By Facsimile at:

By Facsimile at:

(804) 279-3246

(804) 279-3246

(804) 279-3246

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:

Email to:



































































































(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:

(1) Name of Contractor questionnaire is being completed for:





















































(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  

(2) Contract Number:  





















































(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract

(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract

(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract

(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract

(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract

(3) Role Contractor played in Prior Contract





Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime





Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member





Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor



(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract

(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract

(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract

(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract

(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract

(4) Proposed Role in Pending Contract





Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime

Prime





Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member

Joint Venture Team Member





Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor

Subcontractor



(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:

(5) Length of time your agency/firm has been involved with the Offeror:







































(6) Contract type:

(6) Contract type:

(6) Contract type:







































































(7) Contract value:

(7) Contract value:

(7) Contract value:







































































(8) Description of service:

(8) Description of service:

(8) Description of service:

(8) Description of service:



































































































































(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS

(9) Is Performance on this contract being reported in CPARS







No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire

No, complete page 2 of questionnaire





Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below

Yes, answer question (i) below



(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?

(i) Has the scope of work significantly changed since the last CPAR?







No

No

No



Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below

Yes, provide details in (iv) below



(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?

(ii) Have there been any significant changes in contractor performance between the last CPAR and now?





No





Yes, answer question (iii) below

Yes, answer question (iii) below

Yes, answer question (iii) below

Yes, answer question (iii) below

Yes, answer question (iii) below

Yes, answer question (iii) below



(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?

(iii) Has an out-of-cycle CPAR been initiated to document changes in performance?



No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below

No, provide details of changes in (iv) below



Yes

Yes

Yes



(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):





(iv) Comments to support answers to questions (i), (ii) and (iii):









(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:

(10) Name of agency/company completing questionnaire:



























































(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:

(11) Name of person completing questionnaire:































































(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

(12) Email address of person completing questionnaire:

























































(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:

(13) Title of person completing questionnaire:































































(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:

(14) Phone number of person completing questionnaire:





















































(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:

(15) Date questionnaire is being completed:























































































































































































































ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION





















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.

RATING SCALE:  Please use the following ratings to answer the questions on page 3.





Rating

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition

Definition





Outstanding

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.  





Good

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.

Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.





Acceptable 

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.

Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were satisfactory.





Marginal

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 

Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented. 





Unacceptable 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 

Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective. 





Neutral 

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.

No record exists.





N/A

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation

(Not applicable) should be used if the ratings are not going to be applied to a particular area for evaluation





NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.

NOTE:   For statements indicating less than “Acceptable”, please provide a brief explanation in the comments section of the survey.











































































































CONTRACTOR PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SURVEY FOR SERVICES

N/A

Neutral

 Unacceptable

Marginal

 Acceptable 

Good 

Outstanding

Outstanding

Outstanding





a.)  QUALITY OF SERVICE:























(1)  The Vendor provided a product or service that complied with the contract requirements, specifications, and standards of quality.  























(2)  The Vendor submitted accurate deliverables / reports. 























(3) How well did the Vendor establish & maintain a quality program ensuring the ongoing quality of all significant processes were performed? 























(4)  The Vendor utilized personnel that were appropriate to the effort performed. 























b.)  COST CONTROL:























(1)  The Vendor performed the effort within the estimated cost/price.























(2)  The Contractor submitted accurate invoices on a timely basis.























(4)  Vendor’s response to change order was timely and accurate.    If the changes in costs/price were initiated or caused by the Vendor please explain in Comments Section.  























c.)  TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE:























(1)  The tasks required under this effort were performed in a timely manner and in accordance with the performance schedule, deliverable schedule and period of performance of the contract. 























(2)  The Vendor was responsive to technical and/or contractual direction. 























d.)  MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS:























(1)  The Vendor demonstrated effective management over the effort performed. 























(2)  The Vendor maintained an open line of communication so that the Contracting Officer’s  Representative (COR) and/or Contracting Officer’sTechnical Representative (COTR)  were apprised of technical, cost, and schedule issues.  























(3)  The Vendor presented information and correspondence in a clear, concise, and businesslike manner. 























(4)  The Vendor promptly notified the COR, COTR and/or Contracting Officer in a timely manner regarding urgent issues. 























(5)  The Vendor cooperated with the Government in providing flexible, proactive, and effective recommended solutions to identified risk areas and/or critical program issues.  























(6)  How well did the Vendor plan for initial implementation of the project and achieve operation of task requirements once the contract began. 























e.) MANAGEMENT OF KEY  and NON-KEY PERSONNEL:























(1)  The labor turnover in key personnel labor categories was minimal and did not adversely affect Vendor performance. 























(2)  The Vendor provided the proposed qualified personnel to fulfill the requirements of the contract.























(3) The Vendor maintained a trained, qualified and experienced workforce in sufficient numbers to meet contract requirements. 























f.)  CUSTOMER SATISFACTION:























(1)  The services provided adequately met the needs of the program for the contract tasks requirement. 























(2)  The Vendor was able to perform with minimal or no direction from the COR or the COTR. 























(3)  I am satisfied with the performance of the Contractor under this effort. 























COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:

COMMENTS:











































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































SECTION B:  Services and Prices/Costs















Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104



CONTINUATION SHEET

CONTINUATION SHEET

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

PAGE

PAGE

PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

CONTINUATION SHEET

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED



SP4703-12-R-0011

2 and 3

2 and 3

2 and 3

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR:

ITEM NO.

ITEM NO.

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

AMOUNT

SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









SECTION B

The intent of this RFP is to award a firm fixed priced Indefinite Quantity Contract (IQC) for a base year of 12 months and two twelve month option periods. The scope of this tasking encompasses all activities necessary for the Vendor to support DLA in the realization of the parts management strategy. The scope of the vendor’s proposal will be to research, develop, and deliver tools, reports, custom applications, databases, and vendors hosted websites that extract, display, and analyze information from DOD/Commercial sources and incorporate the information into searchable/ actionable databases. The individual projects, data sources, domains, presentation applications, and requested information will be determined and specified via incremental PWS.  See FAR 52.216-18 Ordering, 52.216-19 Order Limitations and   

52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity for the ordering requirements for each task order.  The minimum dollar value of the contract is $25,000 and the maximum dollar value of the contract is $9,115,885.81.  The total ceiling for 36 months is estimated at $9,115,855.81. The requirement will have a minimum order of $25,000 per task order and a maximum order of $3,080,000 per task order per year



Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimates:  Rough Order of Magnitude will be used to calculate the acquisition price of the IQC. The labor categories and hours below represent the level of expertise believed will be necessary to accomplish the tasks on an annual basis.  The vendor must identify their labor categories that most closely match those categories contained in the ROM along with the applicable discounted labor rates.  The labor categories and rates will be included in the IQC and will serve as the hourly rate basis for subsequent tasks that will be issued under the IQC.  The following table reflects the Key Personnel labor categories and estimated hours for each year of the IQC.  Vendors are required to submit the ROM/Section B as an Excel file.  



  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000



Source Selection Information – See FAR 2.101 and 3.104

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

IQC Base Year 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Chief Technology Officer



500









Software Engineering Mgr.



500









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,500









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,000









Junior Programmer



4,000









Total



    17,300 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs









   Estimated  Travel   $5,000

   Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

IQC Year One 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



400









Software Engineering Mgr.



400









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,500









Programmer/Software Eng.



5,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,400 hrs









  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

  Estimated  Travel   $5,000

  Estimated   Hardware $10,000

IQC Year Two 

Labor Category

Labor Category

Est. Hours

Rate

Discounted Rate

Est. Total Price

Est. Total Price

Sr. Knowledge Engineer



1,800









Chief Technology Officer



350









Software Engineering Mgr.



350









Program Manager



300









Sr. Programmer/Sr. Software Eng



2,000









Knowledge Engineer



2,000









Programmer/Software Eng.



6,500









Junior Programmer



4,500









Total



    17,800 hrs















































WD 05-2103 (Rev.-11) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 06/17/2011

************************************************************************************

REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER  |        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

       THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT        |  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION

By direction of the Secretary of Labor |         WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION

                                       |         WASHINGTON D.C.  20210

                                       |

                                       |

                                       |

                                       | Wage Determination No.: 2005-2103

Diane C. Koplewski       Division of   |           Revision No.: 11

Director            Wage Determinations|       Date Of Revision: 06/13/2011

_______________________________________|____________________________________________

States: District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia



Area: District of Columbia Statewide

Maryland Counties of Calvert, Charles, Frederick, Montgomery, Prince

George's, St Mary's

Virginia Counties of Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax, Falls Church, Fauquier,

King George, Loudoun, Prince William, Stafford

____________________________________________________________________________________

          **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing**

OCCUPATION CODE - TITLE                                  FOOTNOTE               RATE

01000 - Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations

  01011 - Accounting Clerk I                                                   15.08

  01012 - Accounting Clerk II                                                  16.92

  01013 - Accounting Clerk III                                                 22.30

  01020 - Administrative Assistant                                             31.41

  01040 - Court Reporter                                                       21.84

  01051 - Data Entry Operator I                                                14.38

  01052 - Data Entry Operator II                                               15.69

  01060 - Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle                                            17.87

  01070 - Document Preparation Clerk                                           14.21

  01090 - Duplicating Machine Operator                                         14.21

  01111 - General Clerk I                                                      14.88

  01112 - General Clerk II                                                     16.24

  01113 - General Clerk III                                                    18.74

  01120 - Housing Referral Assistant                                           25.29

  01141 - Messenger Courier                                                    13.62

  01191 - Order Clerk I                                                        15.12

  01192 - Order Clerk II                                                       16.50

  01261 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) I                                   18.15

  01262 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) II                                  20.32

  01263 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) III                                 22.65

  01270 - Production Control Clerk                                             22.03

  01280 - Receptionist                                                         14.43

  01290 - Rental Clerk                                                         16.55

  01300 - Scheduler, Maintenance                                               18.07

  01311 - Secretary I                                                          18.07

  01312 - Secretary II                                                         20.18

  01313 - Secretary III                                                        25.29

  01320 - Service Order Dispatcher                                             16.98

  01410 - Supply Technician                                                    28.55

  01420 - Survey Worker                                                        20.03

  01531 - Travel Clerk I                                                       13.29

  01532 - Travel Clerk II                                                      14.36

  01533 - Travel Clerk III                                                     15.49

  01611 - Word Processor I                                                     15.63

  01612 - Word Processor II                                                    17.67

  01613 - Word Processor III                                                   19.95

05000 - Automotive Service Occupations

  05005 - Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass                                 25.26

  05010 - Automotive  Electrician                                              23.51

  05040 - Automotive Glass Installer                                           22.15

  05070 - Automotive Worker                                                    22.15

  05110 - Mobile Equipment Servicer                                            19.04

  05130 - Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic                                       24.78

  05160 - Motor Equipment Metal Worker                                         22.15

  05190 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic                                               24.78

  05220 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper                                        18.49

  05250 - Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker                                      21.63

  05280 - Motor Vehicle Wrecker                                                22.15

  05310 - Painter, Automotive                                                  23.51

  05340 - Radiator Repair Specialist                                           22.15

  05370 - Tire Repairer                                                        14.44

  05400 - Transmission Repair Specialist                                       24.78

07000 - Food Preparation And Service Occupations

  07010 - Baker                                                                13.85

  07041 - Cook I                                                               12.55

  07042 - Cook II                                                              14.60

  07070 - Dishwasher                                                           10.11

  07130 - Food Service Worker                                                  10.66

  07210 - Meat Cutter                                                          18.08

  07260 - Waiter/Waitress                                                       9.70

09000 - Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations

  09010 - Electrostatic Spray Painter                                          19.86

  09040 - Furniture Handler                                                    14.06

  09080 - Furniture Refinisher                                                 20.23

  09090 - Furniture Refinisher Helper                                          15.52

  09110 - Furniture Repairer, Minor                                            17.94

  09130 - Upholsterer                                                          19.86

11000 - General Services And Support Occupations

  11030 - Cleaner, Vehicles                                                    10.54

  11060 - Elevator Operator                                                    10.54

  11090 - Gardener                                                             17.52

  11122 - Housekeeping Aide                                                    11.83

  11150 - Janitor                                                              11.83

  11210 - Laborer, Grounds Maintenance                                         13.07

  11240 - Maid or Houseman                                                     11.26

  11260 - Pruner                                                               11.58

  11270 - Tractor Operator                                                     16.04

  11330 - Trail Maintenance Worker                                             13.07

  11360 - Window Cleaner                                                       12.85

12000 - Health Occupations

  12010 - Ambulance Driver                                                     20.41

  12011 - Breath Alcohol Technician                                            20.27

  12012 - Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant                           23.11

  12015 - Certified Physical Therapist Assistant                               21.43

  12020 - Dental Assistant                                                     17.18

  12025 - Dental Hygienist                                                     44.75

  12030 - EKG Technician                                                       27.67

  12035 - Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist                                  27.67

  12040 - Emergency Medical Technician                                         20.41

  12071 - Licensed Practical Nurse I                                           19.07

  12072 - Licensed Practical Nurse II                                          21.35

  12073 - Licensed Practical Nurse III                                         24.13

  12100 - Medical Assistant                                                    15.01

  12130 - Medical Laboratory Technician                                        18.04

  12160 - Medical Record Clerk                                                 17.42

  12190 - Medical Record Technician                                            19.50

  12195 - Medical Transcriptionist                                             18.77

  12210 - Nuclear Medicine Technologist                                        37.60

  12221 - Nursing Assistant I                                                  10.80

  12222 - Nursing Assistant II                                                 12.14

  12223 - Nursing Assistant III                                                13.98

  12224 - Nursing Assistant IV                                                 15.69

  12235 - Optical Dispenser                                                    20.17

  12236 - Optical Technician                                                   15.80

  12250 - Pharmacy Technician                                                  18.12

  12280 - Phlebotomist                                                         15.69

  12305 - Radiologic Technologist                                              31.11

  12311 - Registered Nurse I                                                   27.64

  12312 - Registered Nurse II                                                  33.44

  12313 - Registered Nurse II, Specialist                                      33.44

  12314 - Registered Nurse III                                                 40.13

  12315 - Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist                                    40.13

  12316 - Registered Nurse IV                                                  48.10

  12317 - Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing)                                 21.73

13000 - Information And Arts Occupations

  13011 - Exhibits Specialist I                                                19.86

  13012 - Exhibits Specialist II                                               24.61

  13013 - Exhibits Specialist III                                              30.09

  13041 - Illustrator I                                                        20.48

  13042 - Illustrator II                                                       25.38

  13043 - Illustrator III                                                      31.03

  13047 - Librarian                                                            33.88

  13050 - Library Aide/Clerk                                                   14.21

  13054 - Library Information Technology Systems                               30.60

  Administrator

  13058 - Library Technician                                                   19.89

  13061 - Media Specialist I                                                   18.73

  13062 - Media Specialist II                                                  20.95

  13063 - Media Specialist III                                                 23.36

  13071 - Photographer I                                                       16.65

  13072 - Photographer II                                                      18.90

  13073 - Photographer III                                                     23.67

  13074 - Photographer IV                                                      28.65

  13075 - Photographer V                                                       33.76

  13110 - Video Teleconference Technician                                      20.39

14000 - Information Technology Occupations

  14041 - Computer Operator I                                                  18.92

  14042 - Computer Operator II                                                 21.18

  14043 - Computer Operator III                                                23.60

  14044 - Computer Operator IV                                                 26.22

  14045 - Computer Operator V                                                  29.05

  14071 - Computer Programmer I                          (see 1)               26.36

  14072 - Computer Programmer II                         (see 1)

  14073 - Computer Programmer III                        (see 1)

  14074 - Computer Programmer IV                         (see 1)

  14101 - Computer Systems Analyst I                     (see 1)

  14102 - Computer Systems Analyst II                    (see 1)

  14103 - Computer Systems Analyst III                   (see 1)

  14150 - Peripheral Equipment Operator                                        18.92

  14160 - Personal Computer Support Technician                                 26.22

15000 - Instructional Occupations

  15010 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Non-Rated)                      36.47

  15020 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated)                          44.06

  15030 - Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot)                         52.81

  15050 - Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor                      36.47

  15060 - Educational Technologist                                             35.31

  15070 - Flight Instructor (Pilot)                                            52.81

  15080 - Graphic Artist                                                       26.80

  15090 - Technical Instructor                                                 25.08

  15095 - Technical Instructor/Course Developer                                30.67

  15110 - Test Proctor                                                         20.20

  15120 - Tutor                                                                20.20

16000 - Laundry, Dry-Cleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations

  16010 - Assembler                                                             9.88

  16030 - Counter Attendant                                                     9.88

  16040 - Dry Cleaner                                                          12.94

  16070 - Finisher, Flatwork, Machine                                           9.88

  16090 - Presser, Hand                                                         9.88

  16110 - Presser, Machine, Drycleaning                                         9.88

  16130 - Presser, Machine, Shirts                                              9.88

  16160 - Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry                            9.88

  16190 - Sewing Machine Operator                                              13.78

  16220 - Tailor                                                               14.66

  16250 - Washer, Machine                                                      10.88

19000 - Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations

  19010 - Machine-Tool Operator (Tool Room)                                    21.14

  19040 - Tool And Die Maker                                                   23.38

21000 - Materials Handling And Packing Occupations

  21020 - Forklift Operator                                                    18.02

  21030 - Material Coordinator                                                 22.03

  21040 - Material Expediter                                                   22.03

  21050 - Material Handling Laborer                                            13.83

  21071 - Order Filler                                                         15.09

  21080 - Production Line Worker (Food Processing)                             18.02

  21110 - Shipping Packer                                                      15.09

  21130 - Shipping/Receiving Clerk                                             15.09

  21140 - Store Worker I                                                       11.72

  21150 - Stock Clerk                                                          16.86

  21210 - Tools And Parts Attendant                                            18.02

  21410 - Warehouse Specialist                                                 18.02

23000 - Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations

  23010 - Aerospace Structural Welder                                          27.21

  23021 - Aircraft Mechanic I                                                  25.83

  23022 - Aircraft Mechanic II                                                 27.21

  23023 - Aircraft Mechanic III                                                28.53

  23040 - Aircraft Mechanic Helper                                             17.54

  23050 - Aircraft, Painter                                                    24.73

  23060 - Aircraft Servicer                                                    19.76

  23080 - Aircraft Worker                                                      21.01

  23110 - Appliance Mechanic                                                   21.75

  23120 - Bicycle Repairer                                                     14.43

  23125 - Cable Splicer                                                        26.02

  23130 - Carpenter, Maintenance                                               21.40

  23140 - Carpet Layer                                                         20.49

  23160 - Electrician, Maintenance                                             27.98

  23181 - Electronics Technician Maintenance I                                 24.94

  23182 - Electronics Technician Maintenance II                                26.47

  23183 - Electronics Technician Maintenance III                               27.89

  23260 - Fabric Worker                                                        19.13

  23290 - Fire Alarm System Mechanic                                           22.91

  23310 - Fire Extinguisher Repairer                                           17.62

  23311 - Fuel Distribution System Mechanic                                    22.81

  23312 - Fuel Distribution System Operator                                    19.38

  23370 - General Maintenance Worker                                           21.43

  23380 - Ground Support Equipment Mechanic                                    25.83

  23381 - Ground Support Equipment Servicer                                    19.76

  23382 - Ground Support Equipment Worker                                      21.01

  23391 - Gunsmith I                                                           17.62

  23392 - Gunsmith II                                                          20.49

  23393 - Gunsmith III                                                         22.91

  23410 - Heating, Ventilation And Air-Conditioning                            23.89

  Mechanic

  23411 - Heating, Ventilation And Air Contditioning                           25.17

  Mechanic (Research Facility)

  23430 - Heavy Equipment Mechanic                                             22.91

  23440 - Heavy Equipment Operator                                             22.91

  23460 - Instrument Mechanic                                                  22.59

  23465 - Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic                                          21.75

  23470 - Laborer                                                              14.98

  23510 - Locksmith                                                            21.90

  23530 - Machinery Maintenance Mechanic                                       23.12

  23550 - Machinist, Maintenance                                               22.91

  23580 - Maintenance Trades Helper                                            18.27

  23591 - Metrology Technician I                                               22.59

  23592 - Metrology Technician II                                              23.80

  23593 - Metrology Technician III                                             24.96

  23640 - Millwright                                                           28.19

  23710 - Office Appliance Repairer                                            22.96

  23760 - Painter, Maintenance                                                 21.75

  23790 - Pipefitter, Maintenance                                              24.63

  23810 - Plumber, Maintenance                                                 22.29

  23820 - Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic                                         22.91

  23850 - Rigger                                                               22.91

  23870 - Scale Mechanic                                                       20.49

  23890 - Sheet-Metal Worker, Maintenance                                      22.91

  23910 - Small Engine Mechanic                                                20.49

  23931 - Telecommunications Mechanic I                                        29.95

  23932 - Telecommunications Mechanic II                                       31.55

  23950 - Telephone Lineman                                                    27.41

  23960 - Welder, Combination, Maintenance                                     22.91

  23965 - Well Driller                                                         22.91

  23970 - Woodcraft Worker                                                     22.91

  23980 - Woodworker                                                           17.62

24000 - Personal Needs Occupations

  24570 - Child Care Attendant                                                 12.79

  24580 - Child Care Center Clerk                                              17.77

  24610 - Chore Aide                                                           10.57

  24620 - Family Readiness And Support Services                                16.90

  Coordinator

  24630 - Homemaker                                                            18.43

25000 - Plant And System Operations Occupations

  25010 - Boiler Tender                                                        27.30

  25040 - Sewage Plant Operator                                                20.84

  25070 - Stationary Engineer                                                  27.30

  25190 - Ventilation Equipment Tender                                         19.49

  25210 - Water Treatment Plant Operator                                       20.84

27000 - Protective Service Occupations

  27004 - Alarm Monitor                                                        20.57

  27007 - Baggage Inspector                                                    12.71

  27008 - Corrections Officer                                                  22.80

  27010 - Court Security Officer                                               24.72

  27030 - Detection Dog Handler                                                20.57

  27040 - Detention Officer                                                    22.80

  27070 - Firefighter                                                          24.63

  27101 - Guard I                                                              12.71

  27102 - Guard II                                                             20.57

  27131 - Police Officer I                                                     26.52

  27132 - Police Officer II                                                    29.67

28000 - Recreation Occupations

  28041 - Carnival Equipment Operator                                          13.59

  28042 - Carnival Equipment Repairer                                          14.63

  28043 - Carnival Equpment Worker                                              9.24

  28210 - Gate Attendant/Gate Tender                                           13.01

  28310 - Lifeguard                                                            11.59

  28350 - Park Attendant (Aide)                                                14.56

  28510 - Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant                            10.62

  28515 - Recreation Specialist                                                18.04

  28630 - Sports Official                                                      11.59

  28690 - Swimming Pool Operator                                               18.21

29000 - Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services

  29010 - Blocker And Bracer                                                   23.13

  29020 - Hatch Tender                                                         23.13

  29030 - Line Handler                                                         23.13

  29041 - Stevedore I                                                          21.31

  29042 - Stevedore II                                                         24.24

30000 - Technical Occupations

  30010 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO)   (see 2)               39.92

  30011 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO)  (see 2)               26.84

  30012 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2)               29.56

  30021 - Archeological Technician I                                           20.19

  30022 - Archeological Technician II                                          22.60

  30023 - Archeological Technician III                                         27.98

  30030 - Cartographic Technician                                              27.98

  30040 - Civil Engineering Technician                                         26.41

  30061 - Drafter/CAD Operator I                                               20.19

  30062 - Drafter/CAD Operator II                                              22.60

  30063 - Drafter/CAD Operator III                                             25.19

  30064 - Drafter/CAD Operator IV                                              31.00

  30081 - Engineering Technician I                                             22.92

  30082 - Engineering Technician II                                            25.72

  30083 - Engineering Technician III                                           28.79

  30084 - Engineering Technician IV                                            35.64

  30085 - Engineering Technician V                                             43.61

  30086 - Engineering Technician VI                                            52.76

  30090 - Environmental Technician                                             27.41

  30210 - Laboratory Technician                                                23.38

  30240 - Mathematical Technician                                              28.94

  30361 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant I                                          21.36

  30362 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant II                                         26.47

  30363 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant III                                        32.36

  30364 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV                                         39.16

  30390 - Photo-Optics Technician                                              27.98

  30461 - Technical Writer I                                                   21.93

  30462 - Technical Writer II                                                  26.84

  30463 - Technical Writer III                                                 32.47

  30491 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I                               24.74

  30492 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II                              29.93

  30493 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III                             35.88

  30494 - Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort                                       24.74

  30495 - Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel                                     24.74

  30620 - Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or        (see 2)               25.19

  Surface Programs

  30621 - Weather Observer, Senior                       (see 2)               27.98

31000 - Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations

  31020 - Bus Aide                                                             14.32

  31030 - Bus Driver                                                           20.85

  31043 - Driver Courier                                                       13.98

  31260 - Parking and Lot Attendant                                            10.07

  31290 - Shuttle Bus Driver                                                   15.66

  31310 - Taxi Driver                                                          13.98

  31361 - Truckdriver, Light                                                   15.66

  31362 - Truckdriver, Medium                                                  17.90

  31363 - Truckdriver, Heavy                                                   19.18

  31364 - Truckdriver, Tractor-Trailer                                         19.18

99000 - Miscellaneous Occupations

  99030 - Cashier                                                              10.03

  99050 - Desk Clerk                                                           11.58

  99095 - Embalmer                                                             23.05

  99251 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker I                                        11.30

  99252 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker II                                       12.35

  99310 - Mortician                                                            31.73

  99410 - Pest Controller                                                      17.69

  99510 - Photofinishing Worker                                                13.20

  99710 - Recycling Laborer                                                    18.50

  99711 - Recycling Specialist                                                 22.71

  99730 - Refuse Collector                                                     16.40

  99810 - Sales Clerk                                                          12.09

  99820 - School Crossing Guard                                                13.43

  99830 - Survey Party Chief                                                   21.94

  99831 - Surveying Aide                                                       13.63

  99832 - Surveying Technician                                                 20.85

  99840 - Vending Machine Attendant                                            14.43

  99841 - Vending Machine Repairer                                             18.73

  99842 - Vending Machine Repairer Helper                                      14.43









____________________________________________________________________________________



ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS:



HEALTH & WELFARE: $3.59 per hour or $143.60 per week or $622.27 per month



VACATION: 2 weeks paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or

successor; 3 weeks after 5 years, and 4 weeks after 15 years.  Length of service

includes the whole span of continuous service with the present contractor or

successor, wherever employed, and with the predecessor contractors in the

performance of similar work at the same Federal facility.  (Reg. 29 CFR 4.173)



HOLIDAYS: A minimum of ten paid holidays per year, New Year's Day, Martin Luther

King Jr's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor

Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.  (A

contractor may substitute for any of the named holidays another day off with pay in

accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved.)  (See 29 CFR 4174)







THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING:



1)  COMPUTER EMPLOYEES:  Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does

not apply to any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive,

administrative, or professional employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541.  Because

most Computer System Analysts and Computer Programmers who are compensated at a rate

not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $455 per

week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R. 541.

400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations

within those job families.  In addition, because this wage determination may not

list a wage rate for some or all occupations within those job families if the survey

data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the occupation equals or exceeds

$27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt employees.  For

example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties

within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer

occupations for which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate,

then the wage rate for that employee must be conformed in accordance with the

conformance procedures described in the conformance note included on this wage

determination.



Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer

industry, job titles are not determinative of the application of the computer

professional exemption.  Therefore, the exemption applies only to computer employees

who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary duty consists of:

    (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including

consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional

specifications;

    (2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or

modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and

related to user or system design specifications;

    (3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer

programs related to machine operating systems; or

    (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which

requires the same level of skills.  (29 C.F.R. 541.400).



2)  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS - NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY:  If you

work at night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential

and receive an additional 10% of basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am.

 If you are a full-time employed (40 hours a week) and Sunday is part of your

regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay plus a Sunday

premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime

(i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered

overtime work).





HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees

employed in a position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or

in close proximity to ordinance, explosives, and incendiary materials.  This

includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and pressing of sensitive

ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black powder

and photoflash powder.  All dry-house activities involving propellants or explosives.

  Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations

on sensitive ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials.  All operations

involving regrading and cleaning of artillery ranges.



A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that

represents a low degree of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to

ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to) explosives and incendiary materials

which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or arms of the

employee engaged in the operation,  irritation of the skin, minor burns and the

like; minimal damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used.

All operations involving, unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and

incendiary ordnance material other than small arms ammunition.  These differentials

are only applicable to work that has been specifically designated by the agency for

ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay.



** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE **



If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract

(either by the terms of the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or

local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such uniforms and maintaining (by

laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be borne by an

employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage

determination. The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the

following standards as compliance:



The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an

adequate number of uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual

cost of the uniforms.  In addition, where uniform cleaning and maintenance is made

the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and subcontractors subject to

this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective bargaining

agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary

affirmative proof as to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning

and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per week (or $.67 cents per day).  However, in

those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of "wash and wear"

materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do

not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial

laundering in order to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms

of the Government contract, by the contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work,

there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed for uniform maintenance costs.



The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the

"Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006,

unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are available on the Internet. A

links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at http://www.dol.

gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations On-Line (WDOL) Web site at

http://wdol.gov/.



REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form

1444 (SF 1444)}



Conformance Process:



The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is

not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to

be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage

determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a reasonable

relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted

classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination.  Such

conformed classes of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the

fringe benefits as are determined.  Such conforming process shall be initiated by

the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es)

of employees.  The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall

be retroactive to the commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)}

When multiple wage determinations are included in a contract, a separate SF 1444

should be prepared for each wage determination to which a class(es) is to be

conformed.



The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows:



1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed

occupation(s) and computes a proposed rate(s).



2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order

proposed classification title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each

proposed classification(s), job description(s), and rationale for proposed wage

rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the

authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized

representative, the employees themselves.  This report should be submitted to the

contracting officer no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees

performs any contract work.



3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report

of the action, together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent

information including the position of the contractor and the employees, to the Wage

and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,

for review.  (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4).



4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or

disapproves the action via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or

notifies the contracting officer that additional time will be required to process

the request.



5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor.



6) The contractor informs the affected employees.



Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.



When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of

Occupations" (the Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure

that duties requested are not performed by a classification already listed in the

wage determination.  Remember, it is not the job title, but the required tasks that

determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination.

Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide

classifications listed in the wage determination.



