<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FACHForm.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FACHForm.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>Additional Contract Information 1.0 Observance of Legal Holidays

The Government hereby provides notice and contractor hereby acknowledges receipt that Government personnel observe the following days as holidays:               New Year's Day Martin Luther King's Birthday Presidents Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Inauguration Day (when applicable)

In addition to the days designated as holidays, the Government observes the following days: Any other day designated by Federal Statute Any other day designated by Executive Order Any other day designated by the President's Proclamation

It is understood and agreed between the Government and the contractor that observance of such days by Government personnel shall not otherwise be a reason for an additional period of performance, or entitlement of compensation except as set forth within the contract. In the event the contractor's personnel work during the holiday, they may be reimbursed either as direct or indirect cost, other than their normal compensation for the time worked. This provision does not preclude reimbursement for authorized overtime work if applicable to this contract. When the Federal, State, Local and other Governmental entities grants excused absence to its employees, assigned contractor personnel may also be dismissed. The contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform critical tasks already in operation or scheduled and shall be guided by the instruction issued by the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's Representative. If Government personnel are furloughed, contact the Contracting Officer or the COR to receive direction. It is the Government's decision as to whether the contract price/cost will be affected. Generally, the following situations apply: Contractor personnel that are able to continue contract performance (either on-site or at a site other than their normal work station), must continue to work and the contract price shall not be reduced or increased. Contractor personnel that are not able to continue contract performance (e.g., support functions) may be asked to cease their work effort. In those situations that furloughed Government personnel are reimbursed, the contractor may not invoice for their

1

employees working during the government furlough until such time as the special legislation affecting Government personnel is signed into law by the President of the United States. Nothing in this clause abrogates the rights and responsibilities of the parties relating to "stop work" provisions as cited other sections of this contract. 2.0 Personnel

The FBI reserves the right to review the resumes of all task personnel assigned under this contract and subsequent work prior to assignment. The contractor staff must have the leadership and technical experience necessary to support the tasks defined in this solicitation. The contractor staff must have experience with a project of similar size and scope and this experience. The contractor's PM must provide a 2 week notice, if known, on when a contractor is leaving to ensure that the FBI has the ability to perform any necessary exit debriefs and collection of property or materials. 3.0 Security All contractor and subcontractor personnel shall be U.S. citizens. All personnel proposed who will work in FBI spaces or who will have any contact with classified information must possess an active TOP Secret security clearance, meaning the Top Secret clearance must have been issued and/or revalidated within the last five years. Personnel who will be involved in the development or O&M of EMS modules (excluding Service Manager and PPM modules) may be required to possess a TS/SCI clearance. At the FBI's discretion, contract personnel may be requested to undergo a polygraph and/or drug test. The contractor shall establish and maintain a security program that addresses all aspects of contract performance including personnel, five-year re-investigations, facilities, software, hardware, and equipment security and subcontractor security and surveillance plans. The contractor shall ensure all contract personnel maintain active TS security clearances throughout the period of performance. The contractor has the responsibility to ensure requests for five-year background reinvestigations are coordinated with the COR at least six months in advance of expiration. All contractor personnel assigned at the FBI headquarters facility must have active TS security clearances to access any mainframe IT system. Unclassified coding may be performed off-site by contractor personnel at the contractor's facility. All contract personnel performing work associated with the EDS system at the contractor's facility must possess requisite qualifications for handling confidential information. Specific security requirements for any Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) processing will be specified on the DD-254 document. The contractor shall develop and maintain a comprehensive Security Plan to address contract task requirements because of the sensitive nature of FBI and certification and accreditation
2

information. The contractor's security program shall adhere to requirements set forth in Department of Justice (DOJ) Order 2640.20, IT Security, and other FBI guidelines and directives regarding information security requirements.

The contractor shall not transport magnetic disks, tapes, volatile memory, diagnostic tools, or other magnetic media, regardless of security classification, into or out of any Sensitive Compartmental Information Facility (SClF) without prior approval of the FBI Project Manager and with the appropriate courier letters. 3.1 Classified Contract Special Security Requirement

The FBI has determined that performance of this effort requires that the contractor has access to classified National Security Information (hereinafter referred to as "Classified Information"). Classified Information is Government information which requires protection in accordance with Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security Information, and supplementing directives. Executive Order 13292, dated 28 March 2003, "Further Amendment to Executive Order 12956, as amended, "Classified National Security Information" and implementation directives, provides principles and procedures for the proper classification and declassification of material. These principles and procedures are applicable to classified document or materials generated by the contractor in performance of this contract. This clause applies to the extent that this contract involves access to information classified as either "Confidential", "Secret" or "TS". The contractor shall comply with (1) The Security Agreement (DO Form 441), including the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DoD 5220.22-M) and (2) any revisions to that manual, notice of which has been furnished to the contractor. The contractor shall abide by the requirements set forth in the Contract Security Classification Specification (DO Form 254) and the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), DoD 5200.22-M for the protection of classified information at its cleared facility, if applicable, as directed by the Defense Security Service. If the contractor has access to classified information at a FBI or other Government facility, it shall abide by the requirements set by the agency. No classified document or material provided by the FBI, or generated by the contractor pursuant to the contract, may be downgraded or declassified unless authorized in writing by the CO. The contractor shall appoint a senior official to act as the Corporate Security Officer. The individual shall interface with the FBI Security Office on all security matters, to include physical, personnel and protection of all Government information and data accessed by the contractor.
3

Contractor personnel will require access to classified information and have access to classified areas. Contractor personnel shall possess at least an active and transferable Government Secret clearance at the time of proposal submission. Contractors who will have access to FBI facilities, systems or data shall possess an active and transferable TS clearance at the time of proposal submission. The Government reserves the right to waive this requirement for any portion of the work that deals with technologies or data that is in the public domain. Contractor personnel assigned to this project shall be subject to routine criminal and credit checks by the FBI. Contractor personnel shall be subject to counterintelligence focused polygraph examinations at the Government's discretion. The polygraph examinations may be required prior to acceptance or at any time during the contract, without notice. The contractor shall maintain an overall security program in accordance with the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program (NISP). All automated information systems utilized to process FBI information will be operated in accordance with the requirements of the NISP Operating Manual (NISPOM), NISP Operating Manual Supplement, dated February 28, 2006, Director of Central Intelligence Directive (OCID) 6/3) and/or FBI certification and accreditation policies and procedures, as appropriate. Revisions to these documents, when published, will be provided to the contractor and will become a part here of upon such issuance. If subsequent to the date of this contract, the security classification or security requirements under this contract are caused to be changed by the Government and if the changes cause an increase or decrease in security costs or otherwise affect any other term or condition of this contract, the contract shall be subject to an equitable adjustment as if the changes were directed under the Changes clause of this contract. The contractor agrees to insert terms that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph, but excluding any reference to the Changes clause of this contract, in all subcontracts under this contract that involve access to classified information. The contractor is obligated to comply with all relevant clauses and provisions incorporated into this contract and with the Contractor Non-Disclosure Agreement, and as referenced therein, the NISPOM, and all applicable FBI security policies and procedures, including Director of Central Intelligence Directives (OCIDs). As applicable, the contractor shall maintain a security program that meets the requirements of these documents. Security requirements are a material conduction of this contract. This contract shall be subject to immediate termination for default, without the requirement for a 10-day cure notice, when it has been determined by the Contracting Officer that a failure to fully comply with the security requirements of this contract resulted from the willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of anyone of the contractor's directors or officers, or on the part of any of the managers, superintendents, or equivalents of the contractor who have supervision or direction of:

4

a) All or substantially all of the contractor's business, or b) All or substantially all of the contractor's operations at anyone plant or separate location in which this contract is being performed, or c) A separate and complete major industrial operation in connection with the performance of this contract. When deficiencies in the contractor's security program are noted which do not warrant immediate default, the contractor shall be provided a written notice of the deficiencies and be given a period of 90 days in which to take corrective action. If the contractor fails to take the necessary corrective actions, the Contracting Officer may terminate the whole or any part of this contract, for default. The contractor shall maintain and administer, in accordance with all relevant clauses and provisions set forth or incorporated into this contract, a security program that meets the requirements of these documents. 3.2 Contracting Officer's Security Representative (COSR)

Contracting Officer's Security Representatives (COSR) are the designated representatives of the CO and derive their authorities directly from the CO. They are responsible for certifying the contractor's capability for handling classified material and ensuring that customer security policies and procedures are met. The COSR is the focal point for the contractor, CO, and COR regarding security issues. The COSR cannot initiate any course of action that may alter the terms of the contract. The COSR for this contract is Joann Saunders and can be reached on (202) 2209230. The provisions of this clause shall apply to the extent that any aspect of this contract requires the contractor to access classified, of SBU and/or Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES) information. If, subsequent to the date of this contract, the security requirements under this contract are changed by the FBI, as provided in this clause, and the security costs or time required for delivery under this contract are thereby increased or decreased, the contract price, delivery schedule, or both, and any other provision of this contract which may be affected shall be subject to an equitable adjustment in accordance with the procedures in the Changes clause of this contract. 3.3 Department of Justice (DOJ) Consent For Warrantless Searches of DOJ Workplaces All cleared personnel accessing information within FBI controlled space are required to execute a FBI Form FD 1001 Consent for Warrantless Searches of DOJ Workplaces as a condition of working at FBI facilities. The FBI's Director implemented the Attorney General's policy subjecting employees to warrantless physical searches of their offices or immediate workplaces within DOJ premises when authorized by the Attorney General (AG) or the Deputy Attorney

5

General (DAG) based upon a determination that information the Department deems credible indicates that the employee: 1. is, or may be, disclosing classified information in an unauthorized manner; 2. has incurred excessive indebtedness or has acquired a level of affluence that cannot be reasonably explained by other information; 3. had the capability and opportunity to disclose classified information that is believed to have been lost or compromised to a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power; or 4. has repeatedly or significantly mishandled or improperly stored classified information. The search may extend to the entire office or workplace and anything within it that might hold classified information, including locked containers (such as briefcases) and electronic storage media (such as computer disk and handheld computers), whether owned by the government, by the employee, or by a third party. The search may be conducted by appropriate FBI personnel and/or law enforcement officers, on an announced or unannounced basis, during the workday or after hours. If discovered during a search, evidence of misconduct - whether related to storage or classified information, storage of sensitive but unclassified information, or a crime - will be collected and reported to appropriate authorities. Contractor personnel who will meet the above criteria will be required to sign Form FD 1001 Consent for Warrantless Searches of DOJ Workplaces (attached) upon award and forward the executed form(s) to the assigned COTR designated in Section G of the solicitation if this is a formal solicitation. All forms will be retained by the FBI during the period the individual is providing services and two years after that individual's departure before final disposition is taken. 3.4 Contracts Involving Access to Classified Information

The Government intends to secure services or equipment from firms which are not deemed to be an acquisition risk. The Government reserves the right to contract with such quoters under appropriate arrangements, when it determines that such contract will be in the best interest of the Government. Accordingly, all quoters responding to this solicitation or initiating performance of a contract are required to answer the acquisition risk questions located in Section K. All answers are to be reflective of the parent and subsidiary levels of an organization. Offerors are also required to request, collect, and forward to the Government answers to these acquisition risk questions from all subcontractors undertaking classified work under the Offeror's direction and control. Offerors are responsible for the thoroughness and completeness of each subcontractor's submission. Responses should specify, where necessary, the identity, nature, degree, and impact of any Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI) on their organization or activities, or the organization or activities of a subcontractor. Additionally, a Key Management Personnel Listing (KMPL) must be submitted for each entity for which acquisition risk information is required.
6

The KMPL must identify senior management by full legal name, position, social security number, date/place of birth, and citizenship status. The Offeror shall, in any case in which it believes that foreign influence exists or is being sought over its affairs, or the affairs of any subcontractor, promptly notify the COSR of all pertinent facts. The selected Offeror shall promptly disclose to the COSR any information pertaining to any interest of a FOCI nature in the selected Offeror or subcontractor that has developed at any time during the selected Offeror's duration or has subsequently come to the selected Offeror's attention. Written notification to the CO is required of the selected Offeror or any subcontractor whenever there is a change in response to any of the acquisition risk questions. The Offeror is responsible for initiating the submission of the required risk acquisition information and KMPL for all subcontractors undertaking classified work during the entire period of performance of the contract. Failure to comply shall be cause for default under the Default Clause of this contract. In Section K, Offerors shall complete the Acquisition Risk Questions and KMPL for the prime contractor and all proposed subcontractors. Provision of false information shall be cause for default under the Default Clause of this contract. The Government reserves the right to prohibit individuals who are not U.S. citizens from all or certain aspects of the work to be performed under this Contract. FOCI - For purposes of this clause, a U.S. company is considered under FOCI whenever a foreign interest has the power, direct or indirect, and whether or not exercisable through the ownership of the U.S. company's securities, by contractual arrangements or other means, to direct or decide matters affecting the management or operations of that company. Changed conditions, such as change in ownership, indebtedness, or the foreign intelligence threat, may justify certain adjustments to the security terms under which a company is operating, or, alternatively, that different acquisition risk mitigation measures be employed. If a changed condition is of sufficient significance, it might also result in a determination that a company is no longer considered to be an acquisition risk. There is a continuing obligation of the selected Offeror to advise the Government of such changed conditions. Failure to abide by this obligation shall be cause for default under the Default Clause of this contract. Factors: The following factors will be used as the basis for making an acquisition risk determination. If the Offeror, or its proposed subcontractors, meet any of the following factors, they must identify themselves as a potential FOCI company and submit themselves for a Government acquisition risk evaluation and assessment: 1. Ownership or beneficial ownership, direct or indirect, of 5 percent or more of the Offeror's company's voting securities by a foreign person.
7

2. Ownership or beneficial ownership, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more of any class of the Offeror's company's non- voting securities by a foreign person. 3. Management positions, such as directors, officers, or executive personnel of the Offeror's company held by non-U.S. citizens. 4. Foreign person power, direct or indirect, to control the election, appointment, or tenure of directors, officers, or executive personnel of the Offeror's company or other decisions or activities of the Offeror's company. 5. Contracts, agreements, understandings, or arrangements between the Offeror's company and a foreign person. 6. Loan arrangements between the Offeror's company and a foreign person if the Offeror's company's (the borrower) overall debt to equity ratio is 40:60 or greater; or financial obligations that are subject to the ability of a foreign person to demand repayment. 7. Annual total revenues or net income in excess of 5 percent from a single foreign person or in excess of 30 percent from foreign persons in the aggregate. 8. Ten percent or more of any class of the Offeror's voting securities held in "nominee shares", in "street names", or in some other method that does not disclose the beneficial ownership of equitable title. 9. Interlocking directors with foreign persons and any officer or management official of the Offeror's company who is also employed by a foreign person. 10. Any other factor that indicates or demonstrates a capability on the part of foreign persons to control or influence the operations or management of the Offeror's company. 11. Ownership of 10 percent or more of any foreign interest. Every effort must be made to ensure that supplies are provided and integrated and services are performed using sound security components, practices, and procedures, Acquisition of supplies or services from concerns under FOCI or of supplies developed, manufactured, maintained, or modified by concerns under FOCI (any or all of which shall be referred to herein as "Use of FOCI source") is of serious concern and must be approved prior to contract award and evaluated during contract performance. Approval decisions will be made on a case by case basis after the source or technology has been identified by the Offeror and subjected to a risk assessment. Any Offeror responding to this Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for Quotation (RFQ) acknowledges the Government's requirements to secure services or equipment from firms which are not an acquisition risk; are not under FOCI; or where any FOCI, in the opinion of the Government, adversely impacts on National Security or security requirements. The Offeror understands and agrees that the Government retains the right to reject any response to this RFP made by the Offeror, without any further recourse by or explanation to the Offeror, if the acquisition risk for that Offeror is determined by the Government to be an unacceptable security risk. The risk assessment process will vary depending on the acquisition type and proposed use of a FOCI source, available risk mitigation measures, and the information/justification provided by the Offeror.
8

Risk assessments will be on a case by case basis and will be used to determine whether the use of a FOCI source poses an unacceptable security risk. If an unacceptable security risk is determined, the Government retains the right to reject the use of a FOCI source or to require that certain risk mitigation measures be taken by the contractor. Similarly, the Government retains the unilateral right to approve the use of a FOCI source when the risk assessment indicates that such use would be in the Governments' best interests. If the use of a FOCI source is not approved, no classified information will be disclosed to the Offeror as part of the Government's rationale for non approval. The Offeror (prime and subs) may not seek reimbursement from the Government for any costs associated with responding to this RFP as a result of a FOCI nonapproval decision. 3.5 Security Requirements Applicable to Contractor Personnel Assigned to FBI Locations Requirements are applicable to all individuals to be assigned to FBI locations, to include those identified as "Key Personnel", if specified in the contract. The contractor shall plan for expected attrition through advanced preparation and submission of required information. Award of this contract is anticipated to result in assignment of contractor personnel to FBI controlled or occupied space. Security and ethical conduct requirements, specific to the contract, to include a copy of the "Contractor & FBI Employees Ethics Standards Factsheet" are provided. Any questions that the contractor or contractor personnel may have on the applicability of these requirements shall be addressed to the COSR or (Karen McCarron, Chief Security Officer, at 703-872-5043). As such, all contractor personnel assigned to such space must be briefed, in advance of arrival, by the contractor on the provided FBI policies and procedures, as identified in the contract, regarding ethical conduct and security requirements. A list of assigned contractor personnel and verification of their briefings shall be provided to the cognizant contractor security officer for subsequent transmittal to the proper FBI Security Officer assigned oversight of this contract. This list must be provided no later than seven (7) days in advance of the individual's scheduled date of initial performance at an FBI location. Failure to provide the required verification of briefing will result in a delay of the individual's access to the facility. Additionally, within 15 days from assignment to FBI space, the employee must attend an FBI Security Awareness Briefing, which will further address FBI policies and procedures, as identified in FBI's Policy and Guidance Library. This training is currently satisfied through the contractor employee's attendance at the Security Division's Career Services Management Unit's quarterly contractor's training offered at FBI, 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC. The assigned FBI Chief Security Officer will contact the employee with the date and time of their scheduled briefing. Failure to attend this briefing or make arrangements to attend a subsequent briefing will result in immediate removal of the employee from FBI space. If contract performance is impacted as a result of removal of the employee, the contractor may be found in default of the contract. In the event that the development of information or material is not clearly
9

covered by the contract or regulations, the contractor is required to seek FBI guidance regarding its handling of classified and/or unclassified information. Only such persons who have been authorized by the CO and/or the Chief Security Officer/COSR, if the work is for other than specified personnel shall be assigned to this work. In this connection, for identification purposes, the contractor will be required to submit the name, address, place and date of birth of all personnel who will be involved in the work hereunder. Said information will be required to be provided to the identified Chief Security Officer not later than seven (7) days in advance of the scheduled date of such work. Information relating to an individual(s) identified as "Key Personnel" should be reported to the Chief Security Officer after the written consent of the CO has been received. All contractor personnel who receive a security clearance or access approval under the terms of this contract will be required to execute a FBI specified nondisclosure agreement. The contractor agrees to abide by all applicable FBI security regulations governing personnel, facilities, technical, information systems, communications and protective programs. The following reporting requirements are to be reported to the identified Chief Security Officer as promptly as possible, but in no event later than two (2) business days after receipt of such knowledge. a. Adverse Information. Contractors shall report any adverse information coming to their attention concerning any of their employees supporting this contract. Adverse information is defined as any information that adversely reflects on the integrity or character of an employee that suggests that his or her ability to safeguard FBI SBU/LES and/or classified information may be impaired, or that his or her access to the Information clearly may not be in the interest of the FBI and/or National Security. b. Suspicious Contacts. Contractors shall report efforts by any individual, regardless of nationality, to obtain illegal or unauthorized access to FBI SBU/LES or classified information or to compromise an employee. c. Change in Employee Status. Contractors shall report (1) the death, (2) a name change, (3) change in marital status, (4) change to performance which alters their originally assigned location and FBI Division to which they report, (5) termination of employment. d. Employees Desiring Not to Perform on the Contract. Evidence that an employee no longer wishes to support the contract. e. Official or Unofficial Foreign Travel 3.6 Employment Eligibility All contractor personnel shall be United States (US) citizens. The contractor shall be responsible to the Government for acts and omissions of their employees and for any subcontractor(s) and their employees. The contractor shall ensure that this provision is expressly incorporated into any and all subcontracts or subordinate agreements issued in support of this contract.

10

3.7

Safeguarding Information

The contractor and its employees shall exercise the utmost discretion in regard to all matters relating to their duties and functions. They shall not communicate to any person or entity any information known to them by reason of their performance of services under this contract which has not been made public, except in the course of their duties or by written authorization of the CO. Further, no article, book, pamphlet, recording, broadcast, speech, television appearance, film, or photographs concerning any aspect of the contract shall be published or disseminated through any media without the prior written authorization of the CO. These obligations do not cease upon termination of this contract. The contractor shall include the substance of this provision in all contracts for employment and in all subcontracts hereunder. Any information technology system utilized to support unclassified contract performance shall be operated in accordance with FBI certification and accreditation policies and procedures. The contractor should contact Joann Saunders at (202) 220-9230 to coordinate the required certification and accreditation process for contract performance. Individuals provided access to unclassified but sensitive customer information at contractor facilities must possess a minimum of a Secret personnel security clearance or be processed for a Limited Background Investigation (LBI). Required forms should be obtained from Joann Saunders. All contractor personnel must complete the security processes and meet the requirements specified by the FBI Security Division for the sensitivity or classification level of the information for which they will require access. At a minimum, the following must be accomplished prior to contractors being granted access to FBI SBU or LES information: Secret personnel security clearance or LBI Sensitive Data Nondisclosure Agreement The elements of limited dissemination of SBU and LES information on this contract relative to processing, storing, and destroying information are subject to: a. Maintaining controls to prevent the information from physically or electronically leaving the contractor's approved space, or becoming known to persons without a need-to-know or an executed non-disclosure agreement. b. Appropriate labeling and classification; c. Buildings, or individual offices, where SBU/LES is processed must have entrance doors that lock and that will show evidence of unauthorized entry. d. SBU/LES documents, files, and electronic representations of such, must be placed in a locked container when not in use by an authorized person. For the purposes of SBU, a locked container may be construed of any of the following, or reasonable facsimiles thereof: 1. Desk with a locking drawer,
11

2. Locking file cabinet, 3. GSA-approved security container, 4. Locked computer, and 5. Office space with a locking door. e. SBU/LES documents, files, media, etc. may be transmitted using the following methods: 1. U.S. Mail, 2. Courier, 3. Encrypted electronic mail over an FBI accredited system, and 4. Secure facsimile. f. Not having information on the Internet; g. Destroying all information as though it were classified; At the end of the contract, destroying or conveying all program related information to the Government Customer (includes soft media, as well as documents and other materials). 4.0 Accruals

As a result of the Federal Financial Management Act of 1996, the FBI is required to account, on a quarterly fiscal year basis, for the cost of services performed by a contractor for which reimbursement has not been made. In order for the FBI to meet this financial reporting obligation, the contractor shall notify the FBI of their estimate of costs incurred for services rendered, under the term of this contractual agreement, for which reimbursement has not been received. This notification/information shall be provided to the Contracting Officer on a quarterly basis in accordance with the following schedule. For the period ending December 31, the due date for providing this information is December 1. For the period ending March 31, the due date for providing this information is March 1. For the period ending June 30, the due date for providing this information is June 1. For the period ending September 30, the due date for providing this information is September 1. The accruals may be submitted in any format and can be submitted via, email, fax, etc., to the Contracting Officer.

12

Additional Instructions to Offerors General Comments a) All communications prior to contract award shall be directed to the Contracting Officer only in writing. b) The Government identifies and sets page limits for each proposal section Offerors are required to submit. The page limits are maximums, not recommended lengths. Offerors are strongly encouraged to keep their proposals focused and brief. c) The Government will establish a competitive range for the purposes of efficiency in accordance with FAR 52.215-1 (f) (4). 1. If any proposal document(s) are received after the time(s) designated in the solicitation, the Offeror shall be eliminated from the competition. 2. All proposals shall be evaluated for compliance with the general terms and instructions provided in the solicitation, page numbers, volumes submitted, binder and font size, etc.) via an established validation process. Any proposal not submitted in accordance with the solicitation will not be considered. 3. Completed Section K ­ Representations and Certifications or statement of certification in ORCA. Incomplete or inaccurate data provided in Section K, or lack of ORCA Certification will not be considered for inclusion in the competition. 4. Offeror must receive a PASS or PASS with clarifications on the required Security volume evaluation. Offerors receiving a FAIL or FAIL with clarifications will not be considered for inclusion in the competition. 5. Offeror must receive a PASS or PASS with clarifications on the required Past Performance volume evaluation. Offerors receiving a FAIL or FAIL with clarifications will not be considered for included in the competition. 6. The Offeror shall state in all proposal volumes any Assumptions, Deviations, and Exceptions (ADE) taken to the terms and conditions of the solicitation. Proposal Organization and submission a) Proposals/quotes shall be divided into five (5) parts which are as follows: Volume I ­ Executive Summary (5 pages) Volume II ­ Technical and Management (75 pages) not including resumes Volume III ­ Past Performance (No page limit) Volume IV ­ Cost/Pricing (includes SF-1449 and completed ACH Form) (No page limit) Volume V - Security (includes Acquisition Risk Questions and Responses, KMPL) ­ (25 pages)

1

Proposal/Quote Submission Requirements a) The Offeror shall provided an electronic version (email) soft copy (only this version needs to be received by the due date and time) with two (2) paper copies (hard copies) and five (5) additional electronic copies on compact disc to immediately follow. No hand deliveries will be accepted and any FBI location. Offeror's proposal shall be sent to the following: Ms. Deanna D. Davis Email: deanna.davis@ic.fbi.gov Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Room CC-3 Washington, DC 20535 b) Offerors proposals are due to the Government by August 19, 2013 at 2:00 pm ET and shall be clearly identified as RFQ 205213A091. c) The Site Visit is scheduled for August 5, 2013 from 9:00 am until 11:00 am Directions will be provided once the Offeror's attendance is confirmed. d) Offerors questions (must be in writing and emailed) regarding the RFQ are due August 9, 2013 by 12 noon ET. e) Proposals/Quotes are due August 19, 2013 Evaluation Factors for Award (Additional information) The Government will award a contract to the Offeror whose proposal/quote provides the best overall value to satisfy the Government's needs. The Federal Acquisitions Regulation (FAR) Parts that are applicable to this solicitation are FAR Parts 12, 13 and 15. Evaluation Factors (are listed in order of importance) Factor 1: Technical Proposals will be evaluated consistent with the evaluation criteria to determine the best demonstrated technical solution. Within the Technical approach, Sub-Factor 1: Scalability is most important. All other factors are equally important, but are less important than Sub-Factor 1.
2

Sub-Factor 1: Scalability The Offeror will be evaluated on their demonstrated, clear understanding of the following: A scalable design that will adapt to changing requirements as easily as possible. The ability to rapidly deploy mission critical equipment without having to continually invest in infrastructure upgrades. The ability to rapidly grow in smaller increments that will allow for a more efficient utilization of the data center resources. A flexible design with a "pay as you grow" funding model.

Sub-Factor 2: Efficiency The Offeror will be evaluated on their ability to quickly assess any proposed Government environment and implement an agile, efficient, and operational solution that meets or exceeds the SOO requirements. An efficient design that maximizes available IT space by reducing the requirements for backend infrastructure. A design that reduces power consumption and can be proven as the lowest possible, guaranteed annualized mechanical Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) for the facility. A design that reduces operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses and levels of effort (LOE) by limiting required maintenance and increasing the automation of traditionally manual tasks. A design that efficiently balances power and water consumption under varying operational loads. Overall cost effective design that also includes options for the utilization of alternative energy sources where applicable.

-

Factor 2: Past Performance The Government will evaluate this factor on the past performance data demonstrating fully successful performance of an effort of the same type and complexity. Past performance must be recent (within the past three (3) year) and relevant. Subfactor 1: Mission Requirements The Offeror's record of providing a product or service tht met mission requirements.

3

Subfactor 2: Quality The Offeror's record of providing a product or service that met the required level of quality required by the contract. Subfactor 3: Management The Offeror's records of having provided overall management of the contract, the contracting resources and delivery order performance, to include management of subcontractors, if applicable. Subfactor 4: Business Relations The Offeror's record of business-like concern for the customer's interests and a reasonable and cooperative behavior toward its customer. This will include an assessment to determine the degree to which the Offeror met the levels of cooperation needed to be an effective business partner. Subfactor 5: Schedule The contractor's ability to deliver a service according to an agreed schedule. The cause of any schedule variances will be examined to determine the extent to which the Offeror delivered services in accordance with the contract schedule. Subfactor 6: Cost control The contractor's ability to deliver at the agreed to cost/price. The Government may also use Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS). Factor 3: Cost/Pricing The Offeror's cost/pricing will be evaluated for completeness and fair and reasonableness. Completeness: The Offeror shall submit cost/prices for the entire requirements. This process involves verification that all solicitation requirements have been priced, figures are correctly calculated and costs are presented in an adequate format. The Offeror shall provide a description of the detailed of each product proposed. Fair and Reasonableness: The fair and reasonableness of the proposed prices will be determined on the basis of adequate price competition, comparison with the Independent Government Cost Estimate. In addition, the Offeror's cost/price will be reviewed for unbalanced pricing in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(g)
4

Factor 4: Management The Offeror shall provide an Integration Plan, where applicable with timeframes, transition schedules, and potential impacts to users. Factor 5: Security Submit Acquisition Risk Questions and Responses for prime and all subcontractors as well as KMPL for prime and all subcontractors. Pass or Fail

5

Page 1 of 30

52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items. As prescribed in 12.301(b)(1), insert the following provision: INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard . The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show-- (1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.2123(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due.

1

Page 2 of 30
(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-- (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However , the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to--
GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100

2

Page 3 of 30
470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978.

(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com/). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-- (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 191115094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4 -character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-7055711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the CCR database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov/ or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer.

3

Page 4 of 30
(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. (End of provision) 52.212-2 Evaluation--Commercial Items. As prescribed in 12.301(c), the Contracting Officer may insert a provision substantially as follows: EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Technical Past Performance Cost/Price Management Security [Contracting Officer shall insert the significant evaluation factors, such as (i) technical capability of the item offered to meet the Government requirement; (ii) price; (iii) past performance (see FAR 15.304); (iv) small disadvantaged business participation; and include them in the relative order of importance of the evaluation factors, such as in descending order of importance.] Technical and past performance, when combined, are equally [Contracting Officer state, in accordance with FAR 15.304, the relative importance of all other evaluation factors, when combined, when compared to price.] (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of provision) 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items. As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), insert the following provision:

4

Page 5 of 30
OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2012) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov/. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000 -9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate--

5

Page 6 of 30
(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned -- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and

6

Page 7 of 30
(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov/. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications --Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA. ] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

7

Page 8 of 30
(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [ The

8

Page 9 of 30
offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -- (i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products:

9

Page 10 of 30
Line Item No. Country of Origin

______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:
Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products:
Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary]

10

Page 11 of 30
(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act":

Canadian End Products:
Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________

[List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act":

Canadian or Israeli End Products:
Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.

11

Page 12 of 30
Other End Products:
Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals -- (1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment . A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not

12

Page 13 of 30
a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products.
Listed End Product ___________________ ___________________ Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) o Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [ The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

13

Page 14 of 30
[ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies -- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government ( 31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local);

14

Page 15 of 30
o Foreign government; o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at https://www.acquisition.gov/far/current/html/CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror -- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification ( e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) Alternate I (Apr 2011). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(12) to the basic provision:
(12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ____ Hispanic American. ____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians).

15

Page 16 of 30
____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.

Alternate II (Jan 2012). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(10)(iii) to the basic provision:
(iii) Address. The offeror represents that its address o is, o is not in a region for which a small disadvantaged business procurement mechanism is authorized and its address has not changed since its certification as a small disadvantaged business concern or submission of its application for certification. The list of authorized small disadvantaged business procurement mechanisms and regions is posted at http://www.acquisition.gov/References/sdbadjustments.htm. The offeror shall use the list in effect on the date of this solicitation. "Address," as used in this provision, means the address of the offeror as listed on the Small Business Administration's register of small disadvantaged business concerns or the address on the completed application that the concern has submitted to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier in accordance with 13 CFR Part 124, subpart B. For joint ventures, "address" refers to the address of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture.

52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items. As prescribed in 12.301(b)(3), insert the following clause: CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights-- (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment ( e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.

16

Page 17 of 30
(f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include -- (i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.-- (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.

17

Page 18 of 30
(4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-- (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the -- (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-- (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-- (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.

18

Page 19 of 30
(j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause.

19

Page 20 of 30
(3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. (9) The specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its busines s name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via CCR accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov/ or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (End of clause) Alternate I (AUG 2012). When a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract is contemplated, substitute the following paragraphs (a), (e), (i), (l), and (m) for those in the basic clause.
(a) Inspection/Acceptance. (1) The Government has the right to inspect and test all materials furnished and services performed under this contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before

20

Page 21 of 30
acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in contract performance. The Government will perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (2) If the Government performs inspection or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (3) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government will accept or reject services and materials at the place of delivery as promptly as practicable after delivery, and they will be presumed accepted 60 days after the date of delivery, unless accepted earlier. (4) At any time during contract performance, but not later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of the services or materials last delivered under this contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct services or materials that at time of delivery failed to meet contract requirements. Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined under paragraph (i) of this clause, but the "hourly rate" for labor hours incurred in the replacement or correction shall be reduced to exclude that portion of the rate attributable to profit. Unless otherwise specified below, the portion of the "hourly rate" attributable to profit shall be 10 percent. The Co ntractor shall not tender for acceptance materials and services required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. [Insert portion of labor rate attributable to profit.] (5)(i) If the Contractor fails to proceed with reasonable promptness to perform required replacement or correction, and if the replacement or correction can be performed within the ceiling price (or the ceiling price as increased by the Government), the Government may-- (A) By contract or otherwise, perform the replacement or correction, charge to the Contractor any increased cost, or deduct such increased cost from any amounts paid or due under this contract; or (B) Terminate this contract for cause. (ii) Failure to agree to the amount of increased cost to be charged to the Contractor shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause of the contract. (6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) above, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement, without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to-- (i) Fraud, lack of good faith, or willful misconduct on the part of the Contractor's managerial personnel; or (ii) The conduct of one or more of the Contractor's employees selected or retained by the Contractor after any of the Contractor's managerial personnel has reasonable grounds to believe that the employee is habitually careless or unqualified. (7) This clause applies in the same manner and to the same extent to corrected or replacement materials or services as to materials and services originally delivered under this contract. (8) The Contractor has no obligation or liability under this contract to correct or replace materials and services that at time of delivery do not meet contract requirements, except as provided in this clause or as may be otherwise specified in the contract. (9) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor's obligation to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property. (e) Definitions. (1) The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. As used in this clause-- (i) Direct materials means those materials that enter directly into the end product, or that are used or consumed directly in connection with the furnishing of the end product or service. (ii) Hourly rate means the rate(s) prescribed in the contract for payment for labor that meets the labor category qualifications of a labor category specified in the contract that are-- (A) Performed by the contractor; (B) Performed by the subcontractors; or (C) Transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the contractor under a common control. (iii) Materials means-- (A) Direct materials, including supplies transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the contractor under a common control; (B) Subcontracts for supplies and incidental services for which there is not a labor category specified in the contract; (C) Other direct costs (e.g., incidental services for which there is not a labor category specified in the contract, travel, computer usage charges, etc.); (D) The following subcontracts for services which are specifically excluded from the hourly rate: [ Insert any subcontracts for services to be excluded from the hourly rates prescribed in the schedule.]; and (E) Indirect costs specifically provided for in this clause. (iv) Subcontract means any contract, as defined in FAR Subpart 2.1, entered into with a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of the prime contract or a subcontract including transfers between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor. It includes, but is not limited to, purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders. (i) Payments. (1) Work performed. The Government will pay the Contractor as follows upon the submission of commercial invoices approved by the Contracting Officer: (i) Hourly rate. (A) The amounts shall be computed by multiplying the appropriate hourly rates prescribed in the contract by the number of direct labor hours performed. Fractional parts of an hour shall be payable on a prorated basis.

21

Page 22 of 30
(B) The rates shall be paid for all labor performed on the contract that meets the labor qualifications specified in the contract. Labor hours incurred to perform tasks for which labor qualifications were specified in the contract will not be paid to the extent the work is performed by individuals that do not meet the qualifications specified in the contract, unless specifically authorized by the Contracting Officer. (C) Invoices may be submitted once each month (or at more frequent intervals, if approved by the Contracting Officer) to the Contracting Officer or the authorized representative. (D) When requested by the Contracting Officer or the authorized representative, the Contractor shall substantiate invoices (including any subcontractor hours reimbursed at the hourly rate in the schedule) by evidence of actual payment, individual daily job timecards, records that verify the employees meet the qualifications for the labor categories specified in the contract, or other substantiation specified in the contract. (E) Unless the Schedule prescribes otherwise, the hourly rates in the Schedule shall not be varied by virtue of the Contractor having performed work on an overtime basis. (1) If no overtime rates are provided in the Schedule and the Contracting Officer approves overtime work in advance, overtime rates shall be negotiated. (2) Failure to agree upon these overtime rates shall be treated as a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract. (3) If the Schedule provides rates for overtime, the premium portion of those rates will be reimbursable only to the extent the overtime is approved by the Contracting Officer. (ii) Materials. (A) If the Contractor furnishes materials that meet the definition of a commercial item at 2.101, the price to be paid for such materials shall not exceed the Contractor's established catalog or market price, adjusted to reflect the-- (1) Quantities being acquired; and (2) Any modifications necessary because of contract requirements. (B) Except as provided for in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) and (D)(2) of this clause, the Government will reimburse the Contractor the actual cost of materials (less any rebates, refunds, or discounts received by the contractor that are identifiable to the contract) provided the Contractor-- (1) Has made payments for materials in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement or invoice; or (2) Makes these payments within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor's payment request to the Governmen t and such payment is in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement or invoice. (C) To the extent able, the Contractor shall-- (1) Obtain materials at the most advantageous prices available with due regard to securing prompt delivery of satisfactory materials; and (2) Give credit to the Government for cash and trade discounts, rebates, scrap, commissions, and other amounts that are identifiable to the contract. (D) Other Costs. Unless listed below, other direct and indirect costs will not be reimbursed. (1) Other Direct Costs. The Government will reimburse the Contractor on the basis of actual cost for the following, provided such costs comply with the requirements in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(B) of this clause: [Insert each element of other direct costs (e.g., travel, computer usage charges, etc. Insert "None" if no reimbursement for other direct costs will be provided. If thi s is an indefinite delivery contract, the Contracting Officer may insert "Each order must list separately the elements of other direct charge(s) for that order or, if no reimbursement for other direct costs will be provided, insert `None'."] (2) Indirect Costs (Material Handling, Subcontract Administration, etc.). The Government will reimburse the Contractor for indirect costs on a pro-rata basis over the period of contract performance at the following fixed price: [Insert a fixed amount for the indirect costs and payment schedule. Insert "$0" if no fixed price reimbursement for indirect costs will be provided. (If this is an indefinite delivery contract, the Contracting Officer may insert "Each order must list separately the fixed amount for the indirect costs and payment schedule or, if no reimbursement for indirect costs, insert `None')."] (2) Total cost. It is estimated that the total cost to the Government for the performance of this contract shall not exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule and the Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and all obligations under this contract within such ceiling price. If at any time the Contractor has reason to believe that the hourly rate payments and material costs that will accrue in performing this contract in the next succeeding 30 days, if added to all other payments and costs previously accrued, will exceed 85 percent of the ceiling price in the Schedule, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer giving a revised estimate of the total price to the Government for performing this contract with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during the performance of this contract, the Contractor has reason to believe that the total price to the Government for performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the then stated ceiling price, the Contractor shall so notify the Contracting Officer, giving a revised estimate of the total price for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during performance of this contract, the Government has reason to believe that the work to be required in performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the stated ceiling price, the Contracting Officer will so advise the Contractor, giving the then revised estimate of the total amount of effort to be required under the contract. (3) Ceiling price. The Government will not be obligated to pay the Contractor any amount in excess of the ceiling price in the Schedule, and the Contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule, unless and until the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor in writing that the ceiling price has been increased and specifies in the notice a revised ceiling that shall constitute the ceiling price for performance under this contract. When and to the extent that the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule has been increased, any hours expended and material costs incurred by the

22

Page 23 of 30
Contractor in excess of the ceiling price before the increase shall be allowable to the same extent as if the hours expended and material costs had been incurred after the increase in the ceiling price. (4) Access to records. At any time before final payment under this contract, the Contracting Officer (or authorized representative) will have access to the following (access shall be limited to the listing below unless otherwise agreed to by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer): (i) Records that verify that the employees whose time has been included in any invoice meet the qualifications for the labor categories specified in the contract; (ii) For labor hours (including any subcontractor hours reimbursed at the hourly rate in the schedule), when timecards are required as substantiation for payment-- (A) The original timecards (paper-based or electronic); (B) The Contractor's timekeeping procedures; (C) Contractor records that show the distribution of labor between jobs or contracts; and (D) Employees whose time has been included in any invoice for the purpose of verifying that these employees have worked the hours shown on the invoices. (iii) For material and subcontract costs that are reimbursed on the basis of actual cost-- (A) Any invoices or subcontract agreements substantiating material costs; and (B) Any documents supporting payment of those invoices. (5) Overpayments/Underpayments. Each payment previously made shall be subject to reduction to the extent of amounts, on preceding invoices, that are found by the Contracting Officer not to have been properly payable and shall also be subject to reduction for overpayments or to increase for underpayments. The Contractor shall promptly pay any such reduction within 30 days unless the parties agree otherwise. The Government within 30 days will pay any such increases, unless the parties agree otherwise. The Contractor's payment will be made by check. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on an invoice payment, the Contractor shall-- (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-- (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6)(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury, as provided in section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, and then at the rate applicable for each six month period as established by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final Decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-- (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt in a timely manner; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see FAR 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-- (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (viii) Upon receipt and approval of the invoice designated by the Contractor as the "completion invoice" and supporting documentation, and upon compliance by the Contractor with all terms of this contract, any outstanding balances will be paid within 30

23

Page 24 of 30
days unless the parties agree otherwise. The completion invoice, and supporting documentation, shall be submitted by the Contractor as promptly as practicable following completion of the work under this contract, but in no event later than 1 year (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may approve in writing) from the date of completion. (7) Release of claims. The Contractor, and each assignee under an assignment entered into under this contract and in effect at the time of final payment under this contract, shall execute and deliver, at the time of and as a condition precedent to final payment under this contract, a release discharging the Government, its officers, agents, and employees of and from all liabilities, obligations, and claims arising out of or under this contract, subject only to the following exceptions. (i) Specified claims in stated amounts, or in estimated amounts if the amounts are not susceptible to exact statement by the Contractor. (ii) Claims, together with reasonable incidental expenses, based upon the liabilities of the Contractor to third parties arising out of performing this contract, that are not known to the Contractor on the date of the execution of the release, and of which the Contractor gives notice in writing to the Contracting Officer not more than 6 years after the date of the release or the date of any notice to the Contractor that the Government is prepared to make final payment, whichever is earlier. (iii) Claims for reimbursement of costs (other than expenses of the Contractor by reason of its indemnification of the Government against patent liability), including reasonable incidental expenses, incurred by the Contractor under the terms of this contract relating to patents. (8) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (9) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (10) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date that appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid an amount for direct labor hours (as defined in the Schedule of the contract) determined by multiplying the number of direct labor hours expended before the effective date of termination by the hourly rate(s) in the contract, less any hourly rate payments already made to the Contractor plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system that have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience.

Addendum to 52.212-4

Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items

52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed twelve (12) months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within the period specified in the Schedule.

PERIOD FOR EXERCISE OF OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES
For the purposes described in FAR 37.111, the Government may exercise the option to extend the contract under the FAR Clause 52.217-8, OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES, by written notice issued to the Contractor thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of the initial contract period, including any previous extensions under this clause. When such date falls on the last day of a fiscal year, notification shall be provided within thirty (30) days after funds are appropriated and available for the new fiscal year.

24

Page 25 of 30
52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT
(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days before expiration date of this contract; provided, that the Government shall give the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least sixty (60) days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option provision. The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed twelve (12) months.

(b) (c)

52.237-1 Site Visit (APR 1984) Offerors or quoters are urged and expected to inspect the site where services are to be performed and to satisfy themselves regarding all general and local conditions that may affect the cost of contract performance, to the extent that the information is reasonably obtainable. In no event shall failure to inspect the site constitute grounds for a claim after contract award. The site visit for this effort is scheduled for August 5, 2013 from 9:00 am ­ 11:00 am ET. To attend the site visit, contact deanna.davis@ic.fbi.gov and the directions will be provided via email. 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items. As prescribed in 12.301(b)(4), insert the following clause: CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2012) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). _X__Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). _X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). _X_ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) __ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Aug 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).

25

Page 26 of 30
_X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontrac ting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X_ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). _X_ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (11) [Reserved] __ (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). __ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). __ (13)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. __ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). __ (15)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. __ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). __ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). __ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program --Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program -- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). __ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X_ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). _X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

26

Page 27 of 30
_X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). __ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. __ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) (E.O. 13513). __ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (May 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, and 112-42). __ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iv) Alternate III (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (MAY 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). __ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). _X_ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). _X_ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.

27

Page 28 of 30
(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X_ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _X_ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _X_ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). _X_ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). _X_ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved]

28

Page 29 of 30
(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). __X_Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause) Alternate I (Feb 2000). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(4)(i), delete paragraph (d) from the basic clause, redesignate paragraph (e) as paragraph (d), and revise the reference to "paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this clause" in the redesignated paragraph (d) to read "paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this clause." Alternate II (Jul 2012). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(4)(ii), substitute the following paragraphs (d)(1) and (e)(1) for paragraphs (d)(1) and (e)(1) of the basic clause as follows:
(d)(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, an appropriate Inspector General appointed under section 3 or 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or an authorized representative of either of the foregoing officials shall have access to and right to-- (i) Examine any of the Contractor's or any subcontractors' records that pertain to, and involve transactions relating to, this contract; and (ii) Interview any officer or employee regarding such transactions. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c), of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause in a subcontract for commercial items, other than-- (i) Paragraph (d) of this clause. This paragraph flows down to all subcontracts, except the authority of the Inspector General under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) does not flow down; and (ii) Those clauses listed in this paragraph (e)(1). Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (A) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (B) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (C) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (D) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (E) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (F) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

29

Page 30 of 30
(G) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (H) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (I) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (J) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (K) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-- Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (L) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (M) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (N) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

30

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only

Department of Justice FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Information and Technology Branch

FBI Data Center Pilot Statement of Objectives

SOO-DCMU 1.2 July 12, 2013 (Revised July 22, 2013) Federal Bureau of Investigation Office of IT Program Management 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20535

SOO-DCMU-1.4 UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

July 12 , 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

Table of Contents

1.0 1.1 1.2 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3

Introduction ........................................................................................................... 3 Background ......................................................................................................... 3 FBI Information And Technology Branch (ITB)................................................ 3 Statement of Objectives ................................................................................... 5 Project Scope ...................................................................................................... 5 Work Requirements/ObJectives.......................................................................... 5 Objective ............................................................................................................. 5 General design ................................................................................................ 6 Technology Specifications .............................................................................. 6 Environmentals ............................................................................................... 6 Cooling System ............................................................................................... 7 Power .............................................................................................................. 8 Operation......................................................................................................... 8 Location .......................................................................................................... 9 Deliverables .................................................................................................... 9 Security requirements ................................................................................... 10 Personnel Security ................................................................................ 10 Industrial Security ................................................................................. 11 Security Management ........................................................................... 11 Contractor Suitability ............................................................................ 11 Contract Performance During a National Emergency .......................... 12 Financial Disclosure Requirements ...................................................... 13 Special Security RequirementS............................................................. 13 Access to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Locations ................. 14

2.3.1 2.3.2 2.3.3 2.3.4 2.3.5 2.3.6 2.3.7 2.3.8 2.3.9

2.3.9.1 2.3.9.2 2.3.9.3 2.3.9.4 2.3.9.5 2.3.9.6 2.3.9.7 2.3.9.8

SOO-DCMU-1.4

2

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

1.0 INTRODUCTION The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is interested in a highly scalable, efficient and modular/ incremental data center power and cooling technology that is both cost effective and environmentally conscientious. This Statement of Objectives (SOO) establishes the requirements for a data center technology design pilot for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Information and Technology Branch (ITB), Washington, D.C. This SOO is Unclassified but For Official Use Only and is only used for the purposes of preparing a response to this request for quotation (RFQ). 1.1 BACKGROUND

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has created the Federal Data Center Consolidation Initiative (DCCI) to reduce the number of Data Centers across Government. The FBI has several facilities that are candidates for this consolidation effort. However, in order to comply with the FDCCI, the FBI may need to make technology enhancements to its existing data center infrastructure to achieve the necessary efficiencies in space, power, and cooling. As such, the FBI is requesting proposals to pilot data center technology in an existing Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS) facility, Clarksburg, WV that may allow the FBI to either modify or replace the existing infrastructure with a highly scalable and efficient technology. Depending on the outcome of the pilot, the technology may become the FBI's and its partner, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and all components, standard for existing and/or future data center projects. 1.2 FBI INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY BRANCH (ITB)

The ITB is comprised of three (3) Divisions: Information Technology (IT) Management Division, IT Engineering Division, and IT Services Division. The mission of the ITB is to:    Deliver reliable and effective technology solutions needed to fulfill the FBI's mission anytime, anywhere, on-time, and on-budget; Lead the strategic direction for the FBI's IT through the IT Strategic Plan, IT Portfolio Management, IT Governance process; and

Promote and facilitate the creation, sharing, and application of FBI knowledge products to improve overall effectiveness. In support of this mission, the IT Services Division is responsible for the management and support of the FBI's IT infrastructure. Part of this infrastructure includes systems operating at both classified (up to Top Secret/SCI) and unclassified levels, as well as the underlying facilities and transports to support them.
SOO-DCMU-1.4
3

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

In order to meet their customer's computing service needs in terms of quality, timeliness, and responsiveness, and to minimize their risk exposure, new secure infrastructure components shall be obtained and tested through pilot implementations. Managing this effort will be the FBI Program Manager (PM), who will provide technical and management direction within the scope of the effort. In addition, the FBI PM will provide signatory approval on work accomplished, services provided, and acceptance of all deliverables. The FBI PM and Contracting Officer Representative (COR) point of contact information will be provided after contract award. The Contracting Officers (CO) assigned to this effort is as follows: Ms. Deanna D. Davis Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Finance Division/Procurement Section 935 Pennsylvania Ave, NW, Room CC-3 Washington, DC 20535-0001 703-872-5372 Deanna.Davis@ic.fbi.gov The Contracting Officer's Security Representative (COSR) is the designated security representative of the Contracting Officer and derives their authorities directly from the Contracting Officer. They are responsible for certifying the contractor's capability for handling classified material and ensuring that customer security policies and procedures are met. The COSR is the focal point for the contractor, Contracting Officer, and Contracting Officer's Technical Representative regarding security issues. The COSR cannot initiate any course of action that may alter the terms or price/cost of the contract. The COSR assigned to this effort is: Ms. Joann Saunders Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Security Division ­ Security Operations Section ­ Acquisition Security Unit 935 Pennsylvania Ave, NW, PP II 603 Washington, DC (202) 203-1849 Joann.Saunders@ic.fbi.gov

SOO-DCMU-1.4

4

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

2.0 2.1

STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES PROJECT SCOPE

This section delineates the scope of the project. The selected offeror, herein known as Contractor, shall provide the necessary labor, technology, equipment (except Government Furnished Equipment, which includes standard 42U cabinets, with rails and existing chiller plant), and materials required to meet the requirements of this SOO, and to successfully pilot the proposed technology at the CJIS facility. 2.2 WORK REQUIREMENTS/OBJECTIVES

The work objectives reflect the minimum set of tasks/activities that the Contractor shall perform. The Contractor may offer any additional recommended technical tasks, activities, or solutions based on best practices or corporate experience, but shall not conduct any additional tasks unless the contract is formally modified by the CO. 2.3 OBJECTIVE

The Contractor shall provide, at the CJIS location, the infrastructure pilot, which meets or exceeds the requirements detailed below. The pilot solution shall be fully operational as soon as practicable, but no more than six months after contract award, unless otherwise agreed to by both the Bureau and the Contractor. The FBI is looking for a highly scalable and efficient technology that is both cost effective and environmentally conscientious. The results of this pilot may produce a new standard for power and cooling infrastructure in future data center projects. Once the pilot infrastructure is deemed fully operational, the Contractor shall provide on call support, and a support model as described in the paragraphs below. The Contractor shall not be responsible for maintenance or oversight of the equipment provided by the FBI. Any technology implemented in FBI facilities, will adhere to the following general requirements:  The new infrastructure in the designated facility shall adhere to all National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) safety standards. The infrastructure shall not impede the installation of required cabling and IT equipment.



In order to minimize the risk to FBI systems and information, the proposed solution shall address the following objectives:

SOO-DCMU-1.4

5

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

2.3.1 GENERAL DESIGN The general design shall accomplish the following:  Reduce the construction window for the necessary infrastructure to the lowest possible timeframe.  Be able to scale the infrastructure in the lowest possible increments of space, power, and cooling.  Maximize the available IT space of the site by shrinking the footprint of the supporting infrastructure.  Provide the redundancy required to comply with a Tier 3 Uptime Institute rating.  Accommodate 100% continuous functioning without disruption during routine maintenance and future expansion.  Provide the lowest possible guaranteed annualized mechanical Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) and include monthly reports to the contracting officer. (PUE Objective of less than 1.5)  Comply with Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (LEED) Gold Standard. 2.3.2 TECHNOLOGY SPECIFICATIONS Technical specification for the pilot solution shall:  Initially be able to support 20 server cabinets with minimum specifications of 24"x36" x42"RU.  Support FBI standard networking cabinets with minimum specifications of 30"x36"x42RU.  Support 12Kw per rack on day one, with the ability to scale to a range of 1430Kw per rack without requiring a change in footprint or additional equipment being added to cabinets or rows to include in-row coolers.  Function on either a solid platform or raised floor environment.  Be able to install the infrastructure in either open whitespace or as a compliment to existing infrastructure.  Support as much of the existing infrastructure investments as possible including cabinets, servers, and networking equipment. 2.3.3 ENVIRONMENTALS  Shall provide a highly scalable cooling technology able to support 12-30KW per cabinet.

SOO-DCMU-1.4

6

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

 Shall include Integrated Part Load Value (IPLV) numbers to illustrate maximum efficiency of the system under variable load.  Shall minimize the utilization of water to reduce operational dependencies on sufficient access to water sources.  Shall provide an environmentally conscientious design that will reduce power expenditures when compared to traditional power sources.  Shall minimize the mechanical components required to operate and cool the facility.  Shall optimize free cooling potential of the facility to maximize utility savings.  Future expansion of the cooling infrastructure pilot shall be allocated in small, manageable sections to best couple the infrastructure investments with actual cooling requirements.  Technology shall also provide a method for existing facilities to migrate from existing technologies to a more efficient and scalable design. 2.3.4 COOLING SYSTEM   The system shall be able to support at least the ASHRAE standard operating temperature and humidity levels. Environmental sensors shall log the temperature, humidity, and static pressure of the environment and report it to a Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) platform for monitoring and trend analysis. Backup systems shall be tested in accordance with manufacturer recommendations, but no less than monthly. Backup systems shall have sufficient redundancy to comply with a Tier 3 Uptime Institute rating for availability requirements. The system shall be able to continue operations when access to water has been restricted. The system shall also provide a cooling plan for non-rack mountable equipment. The system shall maximize the ability of the facility to utilize free cooling without sacrificing uptime or creating failure conditions. System shall be self tuning and able to rapidly transition between mechanical and free cooling as outside conditions allow. The system shall support varying equipment airflow requirements such as side to side, side to back, and front to back. The system shall be able to monitor and maintain sufficient static pressure to minimize operation of equipment cooling fans to lowest possible operating levels.
SOO-DCMU-1.4
7

       

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104



The system shall be able to rapidly scale without significant changes or removal of existing IT cabinets and equipment.

2.3.5 POWER  There shall be two (2) separate synchronized power sources to each rack. This design shall allow for hardware maintenance on each power route independent of one another to facilitate server uptime while one (1) of the routes is without power. Each rack shall have the capability of scaling to 30KW of power, using 208V three-phase power. The power infrastructure design shall have no single point of failure for distribution systems serving electrical equipment or mechanical systems. The power infrastructure shall protect against overload and short circuit. The design shall have a central power and environment management capability. The technology shall comply with the DOE/EPA's National Data Center Energy Efficiency Information Program. Shall provide a flexible power distribution model allowing for rapid redistribution of power to different areas of the facility as required. Shall provide minimization of power loss during voltage transitions by reducing required number of transitions to lowest possible number. Future expansion of the cooling infrastructure shall be allocated in small, manageable sections to best couple the infrastructure investments with actual cooling requirements. Shall provide options for future use of alternative renewable energy sources as system scales. The power shall be monitored and controlled down to the plug level within the cabinet.

       

 

2.3.6 OPERATION   The design shall streamline site operations by minimizing the necessity of a routine replacement schedule of power and cooling infrastructure components. The technology provider shall provide an accurate reporting and monitoring system including power per rack PDU (power distribution unit), cooling, and pressure readings. The technology provider shall also include training on infrastructure monitoring system to identified key personnel. At the beginning of the Contractor maintenance period, the Contractor shall provide on-site training for two Government personnel on the maintenance of the system.
SOO-DCMU-1.4
8



July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

  

The design shall minimize the operational impact of future upgrades by allowing for inline additions to the infrastructure when possible. The system shall provide as much automation as possible in order to reduce the amount of on-site staff required for the operation of the facility. The design shall be elastic and adaptable to support an ever changing IT environment.

2.3.7 LOCATION The destination of the new technology pilot shall reside in the lower level of the FBI data center facility located at 1001 Custer Hollow Drive, Clarksburg, WV 36306. The site has existing infrastructure for power and IT network. A Contractor site visit will be held on 5 August 2013 at the CJIS Facility from 0900-1100. All attendees need to contact Deanna Davis at deanna.davis@ic.fbi and telephone (703) 872-5372 to confirm your attendant and all attendees will meet at the Visitor's Center. Directions will be provided when you contact the POC. Contractors are authorized to send not more than two personnel to the site during the specified time. Visiting personnel must have a Top Secret clearance. No other visits will be supported. Within the designated facility, the Contractor shall keep the operational impact to the existing infrastructure to a minimum and be cognizant of the presence of highly available, mission critical services that must be maintained within the data center. Any potential changes to the existing infrastructure will be undertaken by Government personnel or at minimum be approved/witnessed by Government personnel. 2.3.8 DELIVERABLES The Contractor shall provide the following items as part of the pilot program:  Initial Deliverables (pre-install): 1. Equipment Commissioning schedule. (Contractor Format)  Ongoing Deliverables (pilot operation): 1. Provide daily PUE calculations based upon actual IT and mechanical power consumption. (Contractor Format) 2. Provide daily temperature readings from both the intake and exhaust of each cabinet to ensure a proper operating environment. (Contractor Format) 3. Provide documentation demonstrating the daily Integrated Part Load Value (IPLV) of the pilot equipment. (Contractor Format) 4. Provide daily water consumption estimates for the cooling pilot. (Contractor Format)
SOO-DCMU-1.4
9

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

5. Produce weekly performance reports using the previously mentioned performance metrics. (Contractor Format) 2.3.9 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 2.3.9.1 PERSONNEL SECURITY The Contractor shall not transport magnetic disks, tapes, volatile memory, diagnostic tools, or other magnetic media, regardless of security classification, into or out of any secure area without prior approval of the FBI COR. Some of the work to be undertaken by this effort is sensitive and some of it is highly classified. Contractor personnel will require access to classified information and have access to classified areas. All Contractor personnel needing access to classified information and classified areas shall possess at least an active and transferable Government Top Secret clearance at the time of proposal submission. Active and transferable Government Top Secret clearances shall meet eligibility requirements for access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) as identified in DCID 6/4. The Government reserves the right to waive this requirement for any portion of the work that deals with technologies or data that are in the public domain. Contractor personnel assigned to this project shall be subject to routine criminal and credit checks by the FBI. Contractor personnel shall be subject to FBI-administered drug screening at the Government's discretion or when the Contractor independently identifies circumstances where probable cause exists. Contractor personnel shall be subject to FBI administered polygraph examinations at the Government's discretion. The polygraph examinations may be required prior to acceptance or at any time during the contract, without notice. The FBI will be the final adjudicator of access authorization. The Contractor shall report to the COR any factual adverse information that may arise concerning assigned employees. Reports based on rumor or innuendos are not to be made. The subsequent employment termination of an employee does not obviate the requirement to submit this report. The report shall include employee's name and social security number, with the adverse information being reported. The FBI reserves the right and prerogative to, without notice, deny and/or restrict DCHE and information access of any Contractor employee determined by the FBI to present a risk of compromising sensitive Government information to which he or she would have access under this contract. The COR shall be notified of all terminations/resignations within three (3) days of occurrence. The Contractor shall return expired FBI issued identification cards and building passes, or those of terminated employees to the COR. If an identification card or building pass is not available to be returned, a report shall be submitted to the
SOO-DCMU-1.4
10

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

COR, referencing the pass or card number, name of individual to whom issued, and the last known location and disposition of the pass or card. All Contractor personnel associated with this project shall be United States (US) citizens. The Contractor shall be responsible to the Government for acts and omissions of their employees and for any sub-Contractor(s) and their employees. The Contractor shall ensure that this provision is expressly incorporated into any and all subcontracts or subordinate agreements issued in support of this contract. 2.3.9.2 INDUSTRIAL SECURITY The FBI has determined that performance of this effort requires that the Contractor have access to classified National Security Information (herein known as classified information). Classified information is Government information which requires protection in accordance with Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security Information, and supplementing directives. The Contractor shall abide by the requirements set forth in the Contract Security Classification Specification (DD Form 254), and the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), DOD 5200.22-M for the protection of classified information at its cleared DCHE, if applicable, as directed by the Defense Security Service. If the Contractor has access to classified information at a FBI or other Government DCHE, it shall abide by the requirements set by the agency. The Contractor shall develop and maintain a comprehensive Security Plan to address the SOW requirements because of the sensitive nature of FBI information. The Contractor's security program shall adhere to requirements set forth in Department of Justice Order 2640.2D, IT Security, and other FBI guidelines and directives regarding information security requirements. 2.3.9.3 SECURITY MANAGEMENT The Contractor shall appoint a senior official to act as the Corporate Security Officer. The individual shall interface with the FBI Security Office through the COR on all security matters, to include physical, personnel, and protection of all Government information and data accessed by the Contractor. 2.3.9.4 CONTRACTOR SUITABILITY Access to FBI facilities and information is subject to specific security and suitability requirements. The FBI reserves the right and prerogative to deny and/or restrict DCHE and information access of any contractor employee determined by the FBI, at any time during performance, to be unsuitable for access and/or present a risk of compromising sensitive government information to which he or she would have access to under this contract. Contractors will be allotted a reasonable amount of time, determined by the government, to replace the employee found not suitable for continued contract performance. Failure to replace the employee may result in a no cost termination for cause by the government.
SOO-DCMU-1.4
11

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

2.3.9.5 CONTRACT PERFORMANCE DURING A NATIONAL EMERGENCY During a Pandemic or other emergency we understand that our contractor workforce will experience the same high levels of absenteeism as our federal employees. Although the Excusable Delays and Termination for Default clauses used in government contracts list epidemics and quarantine restrictions among the reasons to excuse delay in contract performance, we expect our contractors to make a reasonable effort to keep performance at an acceptable level during emergency periods. The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has provided guidance to federal managers and employees on the kinds of actions to be taken to ensure the continuity of operations during emergency periods. This guidance is also applicable to our contractor workforce. Contractors are required to have policies in place for continuing work performance, particularly those performing mission critical services, during a pandemic influenza or other emergency situation. The types of actions a federal contractor shall take to help ensure performance are:        Encourage employees to get inoculations or follow other preventative measures as advised by the public health service. Contractors shall cross-train workers as backup for all positions performing critical services. This is particularly important for work such as guard services where telework is not an option. Implement telework to the greatest extent possible in the workgroup so systems are in place to support successful remote work in an emergency. Communicate expectations to all employees regarding their roles and responsibilities in relation to remote work in the event of a pandemic health crisis or other emergency. Establish communication processes to notify employees of activation of this plan. Integrate pandemic health crisis response expectations into telework agreements. With the employee, assess requirements for working at home (supplies and equipment needed for an extended telework period). Security concerns shall be considered in making equipment choices; agencies or contractors shall prohibit the use of employees' personal computers and provide them with PCs or laptops as appropriate. Determine how all employees who may telework will communicate with one another and with management to accomplish work. Practice telework regularly to ensure effectiveness. Ensure that in emergency situations, employees shall perform all duties assigned by management, even if they are outside usual or customary duties. Identify how time and attendance will be maintained.

   

It is the contractor's responsibility to advise the government contracting officer if they anticipate not being able to perform and to work with the FBI's CO, COR, and COSR
SOO-DCMU-1.4
12

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

to fill gaps as necessary. This means direct communication with the contracting officer or in his/her absence, another responsible person in the contracting office via telephone or email messages acknowledging the contractors notification. The incumbent contractor is responsible for assisting the FBI in estimating the adverse impacts of nonperformance and to work diligently with the FBI to develop a strategy for maintaining the continuity of operations. The FBI does reserve the right in such emergency situations to use federal employees, employees of other agencies, contract support from other existing contractors, or to enter into new contracts for critical support services. Any new contracting efforts would be acquired following the guidance in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy issuance "Emergency Acquisitions", May 2007 and Subpart 18.2 Emergency Acquisition Flexibilities, of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. 2.3.9.6 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Financial considerations and foreign travel have been identified as significant elements in recent espionage cases. In response to these threats, Executive Order 12968 established a requirement that all Executive Branch personnel who are granted access to "particularly sensitive classified information" as a condition of such access file with the agency head an annual financial disclosure report. With the continuous dependency on contractors to support the FBI, to include access to classified information, if a procurement is expected to result in the acquisition of services involving the assignment of contractor personnel to FBI locations, access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) and access to the FBI's Secret Network (FBINET) the Program Management Officer/COR, in coordination with the assigned Chief Security Officer, are required to identify during procurement planning stages, whether an acquisition will require the anticipated contract to include the Special Security Requirement identified below. 2.3.9.7 SPECIAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS Security Requirements Applicable to Contractor Personnel Assigned to FBI Locations, with Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) and the FBI Secret Network (FBINET), or those selected by the Director or Deputy Director of the FBI. Requirements are applicable to all individuals to be assigned to FBI locations, to include those identified as "Key Personnel", if specified in the contract, who will require access to FBI locations, SCI and FBINET, or those selected by the Director or Deputy Director of the FBI. Award of this contract will result in the assignment of contractor personnel to FBI controlled or occupied space with access to SCI and the FBINET. As such, all contractor personnel assigned to such space with access to SCI and FBINET, or those selected by the Director or Deputy Director of the FBI, are required to file an annual Security Financial Disclosure Form (SFDF). Information collected through these
SOO-DCMU-1.4
13

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

filings is used to help make personnel security determinations including whether to allow access to classified information, sensitive areas, and equipment; or to permit assignment to sensitive national security positions. The data may be subsequently used as part of a review process to evaluate continued eligibility for access to classified information or as evidence in legal proceedings. Upon request, contractor employees required to file shall: a) Submit an annual financial disclosure form electronically using the SFDF. The SFDF is a web-based form that is accessible only through the FBI Intranet. Every form submitted undergoes automated analysis, and is stored in a secure database; b) Sign and submit two consent forms: Disclosure and Authorization Pertaining to Consumer Reports Pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, (DOJ-555) and Personnel Consent to Release Information, (FD-979) to the assigned FBI Chief Security Officer. (These consent forms are used only if deemed necessary by the FBI in the event of a financial review. If a filer submitted the consent forms in a previous year, he/she would be required to resubmit only the form if requested to do so by the assigned FBI Chief Security Officer); c) Include all requested information pertaining to the filer, his or her spouse, and any dependent children. A filer whose spouse or dependent(s) refuse to provide financial information should explain the circumstances of this refusal in the Comments Section of the SFDF. The filer may be subject to penalties, including having access to classified information suspended, revoked, or denied. Individual circumstances are reviewed on a case by case basis. d) Not omit or provide false or misleading information on an SFDF. Filings are reviewed for accuracy and completeness, and filers may be contacted by FBI employees/contractors assigned the responsibility of the Financial Disclosure Program regarding any potential discrepancies and/or omissions. Contractor employees who meet the cited criteria are required to file and are responsible for the successful completion of the SFDF process. Refusal to submit financial disclosure information could result in the immediate removal of the employee from FBI space, restricted access to FBI information or denial of unescorted access to FBI facilities. Exceptions will be resolved on a case-by-case basis. If contract performance is impacted as a result of removal of the employee, the contractor may be found in default of the contract. If a contractor employee terminates employment and/or assignment to the FBI prior to the reporting requirement, the contractor employee is not required to file. 2.3.9.8 ACCESS TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) LOCATIONS Performance under this contract may require access to FBI locations to provide some service, product, or perform some other official function of interest to the FBI.
SOO-DCMU-1.4
14

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

Requirements, as identified below, to include approval by the FBI's Security Division, shall be satisfied prior to access. Contractors who will require escorted access, to include short-term, intermittent, or infrequent access, to an FBI DCHE shall complete an "Access of Non-FBI Personnel to FBI Facilities, Background Data Information Form," (FD 816), a "Privacy Act of 1974 Acknowledgment Form" (FD 484) and two Fingerprint Cards (FD 258). Completed forms should be provided to the assigned Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) at least 10 days prior to required access. Individuals requiring unescorted access to an FBI DCHE shall complete the Standard Form 86 (SF-86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions, using the Office of Personnel Management's Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (eQIP) and provide two Fingerprint Cards (FD 258). E-QIP is a secure website that can be accessed from any computer system which has an Internet connection. Only the signed release forms and FD 258 will need to be mailed to the identified Chief Security Officer, the SF-86 itself will be transmitted to the FBI electronically. To complete the SF-86 using e-QIP, the individual requiring unescorted access to the FBI DCHE shall contact (insert Chief Security Officer, Division, and telephone number) in order to be initiated into e-QIP. Once this action has been accomplished, the individual should be able to access e-QIP at the following link in order to initiate and complete the electronic process: http://www.opm.gov/e-qip/browser-check.asp. Thoroughly read and follow the instructions for completing the SF-86. NOTE: To fully address suitability/security issues, the FBI requires individuals to provide responses to questions on the SF-86 for the last ten years. Failure to complete the application as instructed may lead to significant delays in processing the required investigation and approval for unescorted access. Upon logging onto e-QIP, there will be a prompt to answer three "Golden" security questions to establish the user account. After completing the electronic SF-86, please print and sign the (1) Certification Form (CER) - Certify Completeness and Accuracy of your Investigation Request; (2) Medical Release Form (MEL) Authorization for Release of Medical Information; and (3) Release Form (REL) Authorization for Release of Information. In addition to these SF 86 release forms, the completion of a Non-Personnel Consent to Release Information (FD-979a), the United States Department of Justice Disclosure and Authorization Pertaining to Consumer Reports (DOJ 555) are required. Annotation of the assigned e-QIP Investigation Request Number on the upper right corner of each document transmitted to the identified Chief Security Officer is required for coordination with the electronic transmission and to facilitate the investigative process. The eQIP Investigation Request Number, automatically generated by e-QIP, is located on both the header and footer of the signature forms. These release forms (five total) and FD 258 should be mailed via Federal Express or UPS Express mail directly to the following address: (insert name and address of Chief Security Officer). The use of

SOO-DCMU-1.4

15

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

regular U.S. mail channels may cause significant delays in processing the unescorted access request. Upon completion of processing the DCHE access request, the individual will be required to execute a non-disclosure agreement suitable for their approved access.

SOO-DCMU-1.4

16

July 12, 2013

UNCLASSIFIED//For Official Use Only Source Selection Information - See FAR 3.104

























































STANDARD FORM 1449  (10-95)





SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS



1. REQUISITION NUMBER



PAGE 1 OF 



Offeror to complete blocks 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30













2. CONTRACT NO.



3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE



4. ORDER NUMBER



5. SOLICITATION 



6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE









 205213A091



July 24, 2013







7.  FOR SOLICITATION



A. NAME



B. TELEPHONE (No Collect Calls)



8. OFFER DUE DATE/

LOCAL TIME



Data Center SOO Pilot



Deanna D. Davis



(703) 872-5372



August 19, 2013 by 

2:00 pm ET





9. ISSUED BY



CODE



N00600



10. THIS ACQUISITION IS



11. DELIVERY  FOR  FOB

DESTINATION UNLESS 



12. DISCOUNT TERMS





Federal Bureau of Investigation

Information Technology Contracts Unit

  Room CC 3

935 Pennsylvania Avenue NW

Washington, DC 20535



UNRESTRICTED



BLOCK IS MARKED

  SEE SCHEDULE













  SET-ASIDE:                 % FOR



 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER 







       SMALL BUSINESS      













       SMALL DISADV. BUSINSESS



13b. RATING









       8(A)











SIC:



14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION







SIZE STANDARD:



 RFQ IFB RFP





15. DELIVER TO:



CODE







16. ADMINSTERED BY



CODE

















SEE ATTACHED



SEE ATTACHED







































17a. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR



CODE







FACILITY







18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY



CODE





















EFT































TELEPHONE:



18b.  SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED:



 17b.  CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER



  SEE ADDENDUM





19.

ITEM NO,



20.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES



21.

QUANTITY



22.

UNIT



23.

UNIT PRICE



24.

AMOUNT







The Contractor is being requested to quote Firm Fixed Price (FFP) a highly scalable, efficient, and modular data center power and cooling technology that is both cost effective and environmentally conscientious in accordance with the requirements as outlined in the Data Center Pilot Statement of Objectives.



CLIN 0001 Labor

CLiN 0002 Equipment

CLIN 0003 Materials/Supplies

CLIN 0004 ODCs

CLIN 0005 Maintenance

CLIN 0006 Training

CLIN 0007 Travel



Total



(All cost items need to be clearly identified and priced).





























































































































28.





CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN _______  COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.



29.





AWARD OF CONTRACT:   REFERENCE                        OFFER DATED                 . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO  ITEMS:





30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR



31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)





















30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)



30c. DATE SIGNED



31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER



31c. DATE SIGNED











Deanna D. Davis









32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 20 HAS BEEN



33. SHIP NUMBER



34. DO VOUCHER NUMBER



35.	AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR





  RECEIVED



  INSPECTED



	ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE    







PARTIAL







FINAL





















      CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED



36, PAYMENT





37. CHECK NUMBER





32b.  SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVT. REPRESENTATIVE



32c. DATE



  COMPLETE            PARTIAL            FINAL

















38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER



39.  S/R VOUCHER NUMBER



40. PAID BY

































42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)









41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT













41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER



41c.  DATE



42b.  RECEIVED AT (Location)

































42c. DATE REC’D (YY/MM/DD)



42d.  TOTAL CONTAINERS























