
PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT
                                                                       FOR
                                                     E-EXAM SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT



Background


      The Air University Education Logistics and Communications (A46) Organization, formerly the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed
Learning (AFIADL), has been administering the distance education program for Air Forces upgrade training/skill level progression program since
1950. The primary vehicle for upgrade training is the Career Development Course (CDC), which requires a proctored, end-of-course exam for
completion and certification. Exams developed by A46 use the 4-option multiple-choice question format with the inclusion of graphics as
required.

      Since 2005, A46 has integrated the E-exam computer-based testing software into the CDC testing program. The E-exam program is used in all
Air University Registrar certified test facilities to administer tests for CDCs and professional military education (PME) courses for both
officers and noncommissioned officers.  PowerTrain is the developer, and owner of this software program.

The Contractor will provide the annual maintenance and support as follows:

    • Maintenance and troubleshooting of the E-exam and Answer Sheet Manager software as required to continue optimum performance.

    • Maintenance and troubleshooting of the E-exam and Answer Sheet Manager software program as required to continue generation of required
      statistical reports and provide for interfacing with the Course Development and Student Administration System (CDSAR), in order to continue
      distribution of student data to Air Force and Air University systems of record.

    • Maintenance, and troubleshooting for the E-exam and Answer Sheet Manager software program as required to ensure continued compatibility
      with current Air Force standard computer operating systems (Windows XP, Vista, 7, and subsequent systems) and  Federal Desktop Core
      Configuration-Air Force (FDCC-AF) requirements. This requirement also pertains to all future changes and/or upgrades to Air Force standard
      computer operating systems.

    • Other covered maintenance includes: making needed "tweaks" or required software
      Modifications to take care of changes in response to error messages generated during operation on AF systems or changes required to meet
      revised security policies.  Also covered, is the as required repair of corrupted databases at locations experiencing problems that require
      action on the part of PowerTrain.


    • The primary areas covered by this Performance Work Statement includes: E-exam, Answer Sheet Manager, and the E-exam Data Manager that is
      used locally to generate item analysis reports and other related functionalities.


    • Resolve any of the above maintenance and support troubleshooting needs which may arise at any of the Air Force testing facilities either
      via telephone “talk through the problem,” via E-mail correspondence or hands on required fixes are made, and the files are returned.













