COMMERCIAL HOSTING SERVICES FOR THE U.S. COAST GUARD DIRECT ACCESS SYSTEM CONTRACT PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

1.0

GENERAL

1.1 SCOPE The scope of this effort is to procure commercial hosting services and support for the United States Coast Guard's (USCG) Human Resources (HR) Management, Payroll, and Learning Management system, Direct Access, and its associated HR document imaging solution. The contractor shall provide the hardware, software, maintenance and support necessary to host the system, and include performance and availability service level agreements, high speed network connectivity, internet accessibility, and compliance with security requirements for network and data. 1.2 BACKGROUND The USCG's system for Human Resources (HR) Management, Payroll, and Learning Management system is called Direct Access. It is comprised of Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) products PeopleSoft Human Resource Management Systems (HRMS) and Global Payroll. Direct Access and its applications provide HR and payroll services and support for Coast Guard Active Duty, Reserve, and Retiree personnel, as well as, United States Public Health Service (PHS) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Uniformed Personnel, and their Annuitants. The system has been hosted commercially since 2006. The USCG Direct Access system currently consists of two environments: PeopleSoft HRMS version 8.0 and PeopleSoft Human Capital Management/Global Payroll version 9.1. PeopleSoft HRMS Version 8.0 provides pay and personnel processing functionalities for Active Duty and Reserve personnel, it also interfaces with the legacy military payroll system Joint Uniformed Military Payroll System (JUMPS). PeopleSoft HCM/Global Payroll version 9.1 has been implemented for Retirees and Annuitants, and interfaces with HRMS version 8.0 environment for messaging and synchronizing data between them. Both the version 8.0 and version 9.1 environments interface with other agencies' systems. It is the intent of the USCG to transition all HR personnel and pay functionalities for Active Duty and Reserve to PeopleSoft HCM/Global Payroll version 9.1, and then decommission all legacy HR and payroll systems. 1.3 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL 1.3.1 Executive Manager. The contractor shall provide an Executive Manager, who is not required to be involved in the day-to-day activities. The Executive Manager shall have decision making authority with regards to any and all issues escalated to him concerning the hosting services, as well as authority to implement any suggested or required changes made that would impact the contract. The Executive Manager shall work with the Contracting Officer (KO) and Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) on any such changes. 1.3.2 Technical Manager. The Technical Manager shall be the primary point of contact for the KO and the COR, and shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring all contractor day-to-day activities and work performed under this contract. The Technical Manager shall be available to the COR via

telephone between the hours of 0800 and 1700 ET, Monday through Friday, and shall respond to request for discussion or resolution of technical problems within one (1)-hour of notification. During any absence of the Technical Manager, only one alternate shall have full authority to act for the contractor on all matters relating to work performed under this contract. 1.3.3 Qualified Personnel The contractor shall provide qualified personnel to perform all requirements specified in this contract. All contractor personnel who interface with the Government on this contract shall be able to read, write, speak and understand English fluently. All personnel performing work under this contract must be United States citizens with a National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) background check or the equivalent. All personnel must hold and maintain professional certifications in their respective support areas. All personnel must successfully pass USCG provided annual security training and awareness curricula as well as any focused or specialized training. 1.3.4 Employee Identification Contractor employees visiting government facilities shall wear an identification badge that, at minimum, displays the contractor name, the employee's photo, name, clearance-level and badge expiration date. Visiting contractor employees shall comply with all government escort rules and requirements. All contractor employees shall identify themselves as contractors when their status is not readily apparent and display all identification and visitor badges in plain view above the waist at all times. 1.3.5 Employee Conduct Contractor employees shall present a professional appearance at all times and their conduct shall not reflect discredit upon the United States, the Department of Homeland Security and the USCG. 1.3.6 Removing Employees The Government may, at its sole discretion, direct the contractor to remove any contractor employee from USCG facilities for cause, misconduct or security reasons. Removal does not relieve the Contractor of the responsibility to continue providing the services required under any contract awarded. The Contracting Officer will provide the contractor with a written explanation to support any request to remove an employee. 1.4 KEY PERSONNEL Before replacing any individual designated as Key personnel by the Government, the contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer no less than 15 business days in advance, submit written email justification for replacement, and provide the name and qualifications of any proposed substitute(s). All proposed substitutes shall possess qualifications equal to or superior to those of the Key person being replaced. The contractor shall not replace Key Contractor personnel without acknowledgment from the KO. The Executive Manager and the Technical Manager are designated as Key Personnel. The Government may designate additional contractor personnel as Key at the time of award (See HSAR Clause 3052.215-70). 1.5 SECURITY Contractor access to classified information is not currently required under this contract. However, contractor access to sensitive but unclassified (SBU) / for official use only (FOUO) and personally identifiable information (PII) is required under this contract. Access to SBU and PII requires prior completion of an adjudicated NACI.

1.6 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE The primary place of performance will be the contractor's data center facilities. All work must be performed in the Continental United States and all of the systems must be hosted in the Continental United States. 1.7 HOURS OF OPERATION The Contractor shall provide 24-hour, 7-day a week support at its facilities to ensure all systems are available to government and contract personnel at all times. 1.8 TRAVEL Contractor travel shall not be required to support this contract. 1.9 KICK-OFF MEETING The Contractor shall hold a Kick-Off Meeting with the Contracting Officer (KO) and the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) no later than five (5) business days after the date of award. The Contractor shall at this time introduce the Executive and Technical Managers and any personnel that will provide ongoing support in a capacity that will require frequent interface with the Government. At this meeting, the contractor shall deliver the draft Project, Transition, Risk, and Change Management Plans and be prepared to discuss each. Also, the contractor shall present its Service Level Agreements, and technical and contracting objectives. The KickOff Meeting shall be held at the government's facility or via teleconference. 1.10 STATUS MEETINGS The Technical Manager shall host a teleconference with the Contracting Officer, COR, and other USCG personnel on a weekly basis or upon request to present deliverables, discuss status, exchange information and resolve emergent technical problems and issues. 1.11 REPORT REQUIREMENTS PWS Section 8.0 lists required reports and the dates on which the contractor is required to deliver them. PWS Section 5.8 provides guidance as to the type of information the Contractor shall provide to the USCG. The contractor shall provide all written reports in electronic format with read/write capability using applications that are compatible with USCG Standard Workstation Operating System. 1.12 CITIZENSHIP No contractor personnel shall be granted access to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) systems processing sensitive information who is not a citizen of the United States. Prior to being granted access to the systems and data, all system administrators and other contractor employees shall meet the citizenship and security requirements mandated in the Department of Homeland Security Sensitive Systems Policy Directive 4300A and DHS 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook. 1.13 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Data required to be delivered under this Contract, that could be deemed technical data under the clause FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data ­ General, if it were delivered in written form, shall not lose its status as technical data because access by the government, or delivery by the contractor, is by electronic means. Any work undertaken by the contractor and recorded or uploaded into or installed upon any USCG system (including development, test, production, and disaster recovery environments) under this or any related or predecessor contract, is deemed to have been delivered to the government and shall be the property of the USCG. All

rights of the parties in these technical data deliverables shall be as specified in the clause Rights in Data ­ General. 1.14 PROTECTION OF INFORMATION Contractor access to proprietary information is required under this contract. Contractor employees shall safeguard this information against unauthorized disclosure or dissemination in accordance with DHS MD 11042.1, Safeguarding Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) Information. SBU includes information categorized by DHS or other government agencies as: For Official Use Only (FOUO); Official Use Only (OUO); Sensitive Homeland Security Information (SHSI); Limited Official Use (LOU); Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES); Safeguarding Information (SGI); Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI); and any other identifier used by other government agencies to categorize information as sensitive but unclassified. The contractor shall ensure that all contractor personnel having access to business or procurement sensitive information sign a non-disclosure agreement (DHS Form 11000-6). The contractor shall continue to ensure employees safeguard this information when the new Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) framework replaces the sensitive but unclassified (SBU) categorization.

2.0

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS JUMPS ­ Joint Uniformed Military Payroll System ­ Legacy Military Payroll System KO ­ Contracting Officer LES - Law Enforcement Sensitive LOU ­ Limited Official Use NACI ­ National Agency Check with Inquiries NIST ­ National Institute for Science and Technology NOAA ­ National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration OIG ­ Office of the Inspector General OLTP - Online transaction processing OMB ­ Office of Management and Budget OUO ­ Official Use Only PHS ­ Public Health Service PII ­ Personally Identifiable Information PoP ­ Period of Performance PWS ­ Performance Work Statement RCA ­ Root Cause Analysis SSAE - Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements SBU ­ Sensitive, But Unclassified SGI - Safeguarding Information SHSI - Sensitive Homeland Security Information SLAs ­ Service Level Agreements SOC - USCG Systems Operations Center SSL - Secure Socket Layer SQL ­ Structured Query Language

C&A ­ Certification and Accreditation CG-CIRT ­ CG COMPUTER INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAM CGEA ­ Coast Guard Enterprise Architecture COBOL ­ Common Business-Oriented Language COR ­ Contracting Officer's Representative COTS ­ Commercial Off the Shelf CUI - Controlled Unclassified Information DBA ­ Database Administrator DHS ­ Department of Homeland Security DNS - Domain Name Server DOD ­ Department of Defense EDMO - Enterprise Data Management Office ET ­ Eastern Time FINCEN ­USCG Finance Center FIPS - Federal Information Processing Standards FOUO ­ For Official Use Only HCM ­ Human Capital Management HLS EA ­ Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture HR ­ Human Resources HRMS ­ Human Resources Management System HSAR ­ Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation ID - Identification IPv6 ­ Internet Protocol version 6

T-1 ­ Telecommunication carrier Data Line 1 TB ­ terabyte ­ 1000 gigabytes

TRM - Technical Reference Model USCG ­ United States Coast Guard WAN ­ Wide Area Network

3.0

GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY

3.1 LICENSING - The government will maintain licensing for the software listed below. Title to and ownership of the licenses to these products remains with the government to support the enterprise. These licenses include but are not limited to current versions and subsequent releases of the following: PeopleSoft Components: 3.1.1 ePerformance 9.1, 3.1.2 eRecruit 9.1, 3.1.3 Talent Acquisition Mgr 9.1, 3.1.4 Applicant Gateway 9.1, 3.1.5 Global Payroll 9.1, 3.1.6 PeopleSoft HRMS 8.0** 3.1.7 PeopleSoft HCM 9.1 3.1.8 Enterprise Learning Management 9.1, 3.1.9 HRMS Portal Pack 8.x,** 3.1.10 Community Portal 9.1, 3.1.11 Mobile Application Designer 9.1, 3.1.12 Enterprise Portal 9.1, 3.1.13 eProfile 9.1, 3.1.14 Managers Desktop 9.1, 3.1.15 eRecruit Manager Desktop 9.1, 3.1.16 ePerformance Manager Desktop 9.1, 3.1.17 HRMS Warehouse 8.x,** 3.1.18 Internal Control Enforcer 9.1 3.1.19 Time and Labor Other Software: 3.1.20 I-Planet 3.1.21 COBOL compiler 3.1.22 C compiler 3.1.23 Oracle9i database Enterprise Edition Release 9.2.0.6.0 and subsequent version releases (CG Enterprise License) 3.1.24 Oracle 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.2.0.1.0 and subsequent version releases (CG Enterprise License) 3.1.25 Cognos DSS Reporting and Analysis Tools 3.1.26 ImageNow Software 3.1.27 BEA WebLogic 3.1.28 TomCat Web Server. 3.1.29 Connect: Direct 3.1.30 Secure (+) 3.1.31 CG shall provide DNS names. **License availability is based on need to support current USCG version 8.0 environment, and would become unnecessary once transition of version 8.0 environment is complete.

3.2 Data Delivery media of all Direct Access data is dependent on the design and configuration of the contractor's solution.

4.0

CONTRACTOR FURNISHED PROPERTY The contractor shall furnish all facilities, materials, equipment and services necessary to fulfill the requirements of this contract, except for the Government Furnished Property specified in Section 3.0 of this PWS.

5.0

REQUIREMENTS 5.0.1 General. The Contractor shall host all Production and Non-Production systems (e.g. development, test, production, reporting, demo, and all associated applications and databases with the systems) for Direct Access and Imaging. The USCG does not require the contractor to provide a dedicated hosting platform. The contractor's hosting services shall meet the Coast Guard's requirements for system and user functionality and capability, as well as availability and performance. The contractor shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Federal, DHS, and USCG security policies and mandates listed in Section 7.0, References, of this PWS, including the requirement to provide capability for segregation of data transmission and storage. 5.0.2 Geographic Separation. The contractor shall provide locations for Production and Disaster Recovery backup sites that are geographically separate by a distance of least 200 miles. 5.0.3 Enterprise Architecture. The hosting services shall meet DHS and USCG Enterprise Architecture policies, standards, and procedures. Specifically, the contractor shall comply with the Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) and Coast Guard Enterprise Architecture (CGEA) requirements, including the following:    All developed solutions and requirements shall be compliant with the HLS EA and CGEA. All IT hardware or software shall be compliant with the HLS EA Technical Reference Model (TRM) Standards and Products Profile. Description information for all data assets, information exchanges and data standards, whether adopted or developed, shall be submitted to the DHS Enterprise Data Management Office (EDMO) for review and insertion into the DHS Data Reference Model and Enterprise Architecture Information Repository.

5.1 TRANSITION MANAGEMENT 5.1.0 General. The contractor shall develop and follow a Transition Plan that contains transition methods, processes, procedures, strategies, and timelines. The Contractor shall also develop and follow Risk Management and Change Management Plans. The contractor shall transition all environments, applications, and applicable data to the hosting site in such a manner as to ensure continuity of USCG business operations. All transition tasks and/or phases performed by the contractor are not deemed complete until they are accepted by the COR. The contractor shall perform all transition activities within six (6) months the award date.

Licenses listed under Section 3.0, Government Furnished Property, of this PWS shall be provided to the supplier as part of the transition. At a minimum, the Transition Plan shall address the following 5.1.1  Functional Transition System o Environment v.8  Production  Non-Production  Demo o Environment v9.1  Production  Non-Production  Demo o Enterprise Portal 9.1  Production  Non-Production  Demo  Imaging Data Network o Connections to Coast Guard locations Washington, D.C and Alameda, CA o Internet connections o Connections between systems and messaging o Interface connections to entities listed in Section 5.3, Network, of this PWS Security o DNS settings are correct o Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol and certifications are in place Contingency and Disaster Recovery Testing o System Testing o User Acceptance Reconciliation o Reports to verify system functionality Performance Transition Demonstrate performance o Concurrent users o Integration of portal o Test messaging and data consistency Service Level Agreements Maintenance and Support o Helpdesk Transition Considerations The following are restrictions that could impact the timeline when transition activities can be performed.

 

   

5.1.2 

 

5.1.3 



Transaction activities cannot be performed during first two weeks of any calendar month due to monthly payroll processing which occurs at the end of the month; and December or January due to payroll yearend processing o Except as authorized by the COR, the contractor shall limit downtime to weekend hours so as to not interfere with weekly payroll processing activities. The COR will provide specific times and dates for restrictions at the Kick-off Meeting

o

5.2 SYSTEM The Contractor's hosting services' design and configuration for all hardware, equipment, and software shall support USCG PeopleSoft Human Resource Management Systems and Global Payroll applications. It shall be in compliance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates. All network hardware shall be IPv6 compatible without modification, upgrade, or replacement. All Information Technology assets employed in hosting the system shall be IPv6 capable. 5.2.1 Access 5.2.1.1 The USCG estimates the total user community at approximately 115,000 named Active Duty/Reserve and Retiree self-service1 users that access both production instances (8.0 and 9.1) via the PeopleSoft Portal accessed world-wide using a web browser. The hosting for the PeopleSoft HRMS 8.0 and Human Capital Management 9.1 environments shall support 1700 concurrent users via the PeopleSoft Enterprise Portal, accessed world-wide using a web browser. The contractor shall provide access capabilities for approximately 475 concurrent super users (included in the 1700 concurrent users) of PeopleSoft. 5.2.1.2 The hosting for the HCM v9.1 and Global Payroll v9.1 systems shall support running payroll calculation for at least 50,000 payees during the course of one day. When the legacy systems are merged with Global Payroll v9.1 processing calculations shall increase to 115,000 payees. 5.2.1.3 The contractor shall provide retrieval and storage of historical payroll transaction data for processing of at least 13 months. 5.2.1.4 The contractor shall provide role-based user access for designated USCG and 3rd party Contractor personnel for system, database, and application administration. The role-based access shall provide designated users access to schema database objects in order to perform daily activities in support of the Direct Access system. 5.2.1.5 The contractor shall provide database level access to designated USCG and 3rd party Contractor personnel. In the production database this access shall allow manipulation of the end user data via utilities such as SQL*plus, but may be read-only access for the associated metadata. (i.e, PeopleTools). 5.2.2 Environment The hosting services shall provide in support of Direct Access:

1

Examples of self service actions include changes to e-Resume, emergency contact data, phone, address, tax election, direct deposit, competency, accomplishment, license reporting, leave requests, and training requests.

5.2.2.1 PeopleSoft HRMS v8:  One (1) Reporting Instance (nightly copy of Production) on Production equivalent architecture and configuration  Six (6) v8 Non-prod instances  A Demo environment which meets PeopleSoft /Oracle recommended requirements 5.2.2.2 PeopleSoft HCM v9.1:  One (1) Reporting Instance (nightly copy of Production) on Production equivalent architecture and configuration  Ten (10) v9.1 Non-prod instances  One (1) Pre-Production instance on Production equivalent architecture and configuration  A Demo environment which meets PeopleSoft /Oracle recommended requirements 5.2.2.3 PeopleSoft Enterprise Portal v9.1:  One (1) v9.1 Non-prod instances configured with v9.1 reporting instance  Ten (10) v9.1 Non-prod instances  One (1) Pre-Production instances on Production equivalent architecture and configuration  A Demo environment which meets PeopleSoft /Oracle recommended requirements ImageNow Testing Environment 5.2.2.4. All non-production environments shall provide the capability to perform at least 50,000 payee payroll runs and shall increase to approximate 115, 000. The HRMS warehouse shall have a separate instance not using on-line transaction processing (OLTP) hardware. It can reside on the Non-production Hardware or at the Non-production Hardware hosting site. 5.2.3 Imaging The Contractor shall provide hosting services for Imaging that comply with the manufacturer, Perceptive Software Inc.'s, recommended specifications for database, application, web server configuration, and disaster recovery in order to support the USCG Personnel Data Record Image storage and retrieval system. Perceptive Software's recommended specifications can be found on their website: https://www.perceptivesoftware.com/. The hosting for Imaging shall meet the following USCG requirements for Microsoft hardware and software compatibility, as well as network security, and concurrent user requirements:  Imaging shall communicate securely with Direct Access  Imaging shall support 1000 concurrent user population  Imaging shall be compatible with: o At least Intel Hardware/Operating System Intel-based and Windows System 2003 Server or current Server Operating System o At least Database Oracle 10G or current Database o At Least ImageNow version 6.5.1.250 from Perceptive Software or current version of ImageNow 5.2.4 Storage The hosting service shall include at least 3 terabytes (TB) of storage for the Direct Access system and Imaging. The contractor shall provide at least 1.8 TB of disk storage for the Direct Access system. The contractor shall provide 1.2 TB of disk storage for the Imaging system. The contractor shall provide additional amounts of storage when and if purchased by the USCG.

5.3 NETWORK 5.3.0 Encryption The USCG leases circuits and switches from a commercial telecommunications provider. The Direct Access server(s) and the associated underlying network are considered un-trusted systems and therefore connect to the USCG network through a series of USCG managed firewalls and network security appliances. The contractor shall encrypt all data traffic travelling over un-trusted networks to FIPS 140-2 standards. 5.3.1 T-1 Circuits The Contractor shall provide T-1 capacity circuits from geographically diverse Points of Presence in the contractor's network that connect to the USCG WAN locations in Alameda, CA and Washington, DC. These T-1 connections shall allow USCG to traverse connections between contractor sites where the USCG applications are hosted. 5.3.2 Internet Connections The Contractor shall provide dedicated Internet connections, of at least T-1 capacity circuits, from geographically diverse Points of Presence in the contractor's network (a minimum of four T-1 capacity circuits (two T-1s each). 5.3.3 Connection Maintenance The contractor shall manage and maintain network and Internet connections to the established point of demarcation in compliance with agreed upon Service Level Agreements (SLAs). 5.3.4 Connectivity The Contractor shall provide connectivity that only allows sessions entering the USCG network to be initiated from inside the USCG Network (i.e. two-tier sessions Client/Server). 5.3.5 Remote Access The Contractor shall provide a secure remote access solution in the event of a primary network connection failure for two-tier sessions. 5.3.6 File Transmission The network connectivity shall be capable of transmitting files from USCG's PeopleSoft NT to other government agencies that do not accept files from .com domains via the USCG domain (.mil, .gov).

5.3.7 Interfaces The hosting services shall support the following interfaces:  Transmission of payroll transactions to the USCG legacy payroll system, and accounting and financial data to systems at the USCG Finance Center (FINCEN) on a daily basis  Interactive real time interface to Image Now for the purpose of storing and retrieving digital images of personnel records  Interactive real time interface between Direct Access PeopleSoft environments for the purpose of synchronizing data  Transmission of Human Resources and financial data to the following entities: o Department of Treasury, o Department of Defense, o Department of Agriculture, o Veterans Administration, o National Records Center, o Coast Guard Pay and Personnel Center, o Coast Guard Finance Center, o Coast Guard Operations Service Center, o National Finance Center, o Defense Manpower Data Center, o Public Health Service Uniformed Services, o National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Uniformed Services 5.4 SECURITY 5.4.1 Surveillance The Contractor shall provide real time and proactive surveillance to monitor compliance of its security controls and government-approved service level agreements. Service level and availability standards shall be proposed for government approval to the COR for production, non-production, training, and test environments in compliance with NIST SP-800 series and DHS MD 4300A requirements. These standards will cover interfaces to the CG Computer Incident Response Team (CG-CIRT), (i.e. the USCG Systems Operations Center (SOC))), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), and compliant audit logging tool(s) (with DHS/USCG access to real time and ad hoc log reports), and other tools and processes to meet Federal continuous monitoring requirements. In addition, the contractor shall allow designated USCG personnel to perform non-intrusive vulnerability scans of the Direct Access systems and the associated supporting networks (including firewalls, Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems, switches, and routers) using USCG owned and operated vulnerability scanning tools. These scans will be performed in support of continuous monitoring, USCG inspections, DHS OIG initiated audits, and other audits and inspections by Federal regulatory agencies and organizations. 5.4.2 Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements The Contractor shall provide copies of its independently performed Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 report, demonstrating adequate controls and safeguards for hosting data, and demonstrating adequate Contractor internal controls. The SSAE No 16 reports shall be provided annually for review by the government, and shall be scheduled to coincide with the Federal fiscal year (Oct 1 - Sept 30). 5.4.3 System Maintenance The Contractor shall manage and maintain the operating system software, including timely application of security specific patches, upgrades, and configurations based upon the vendor's

recommended standards. Further, the Contractor shall perform hardening to meet USCG standards, which may include DHS hardening guidance and Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG). The patch management program shall include a process for USCG identified patch requirements to be tested and implemented based upon the severity of the vulnerability being addressed. 5.4.4 Security Certificates The Contractor shall acquire security certificates (SSL or equivalent) on behalf of the Government. Upon their acquisition, the certificates shall become the property of the Government. 5.4.5 Encryption of Data The Contractor shall implement a solution where all USCG data at rest or in transit over non USCG-equipment is encrypted to meet FIPS 140-2 requirements. This requirement includes backup media and system to system communications over the Contractor's network. Note that web sessions between the web servers and end client workstations via web interfaces are only required to support 128-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) sessions. 5.4.6 Protection of Data The Contractor's hosting services for Direct Access shall provide robust security features and measures to ensure appropriate protection of privacy data and corporate payroll, while not adversely impacting the security of interconnected networks and systems. 5.4.7 Security Categorization The security of the systems shall meet all of the DHS and NIST SP 800-53 requirements for a financial management system containing PII with a FIPS 199 Security Categorization of confidentiality = moderate, integrity = moderate, and availability = moderate. 5.4.8 Attacks The Contractor's security services shall manage Internet/probes/denial of service and insider attacks on the systems and supporting infrastructure. This security solution shall be independently tested and verified by a USCG Certification and Accreditation (C&A) team. 5.4.9 Security Maintenance The Contractor shall work with the Government to identify and implement any security requirement additions/changes, such as those described in the GSA FEDRAMP program. The Contractor is expected to meet these new security requirements, in a timely manner, and to the greatest extent possible with any non-compliance areas agreed to by USCG. 5.4.10 Vulnerability Scans The contractor shall perform proactive vulnerability scans of the systems at least monthly, using tools agreed to by the COR. The Contractor shall work with the USCG to mitigate any identified issues in order to meet Federal requirements for continuous monitoring. 5.4.11 Audit Log Reviews The Contractor shall perform weekly audit log reviews in compliance with DHS MD 4300A Sensitive System Policy requirements and coordinate all analysis and reporting through USCG personnel designated by the COR.

5.4.12 Security Incident Reporting The contractor shall report any identified or perceived security incidents to the COR and to designated USCG personnel (e.g., USCG SOC) in support of the continuous monitoring requirements. 5.4.13 Physical Location The contractor shall, to the maximum extent possible, physically locate systems in close proximity to each other (e.g., in adjacent racks). 5.4.14 Reuse of Equipment The contractor shall notify the USCG of potential reuse or reallocation of equipment that has been used in support of the USCG, so that the USCG can verify that no USCG information or assets are inadvertently reused in a manner that is in violation of USCG, DHS, and/or Federal policy. 5.4.15 Protection of Government Property During the Period of Performance of this effort, all hosted data and application software is the property of the USCG and shall be protected to meet all applicable Federal, DHS, and USCG security requirements which includes encryption in transit and encryption at rest. 5.5 SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE

5.5.1 Service Level Agreements 5.5.1.1 The production environment shall have a service level agreement with a minimum of 99.5% scheduled availability. Regularly scheduled maintenance periods shall be proposed by the Contractor and mutually agreed to in advance by the Government. 5.5.1.2 The non-production and testing environments shall have a service level agreement with a minimum of 99.5% scheduled availability. Regularly scheduled maintenance periods shall be proposed by the Contractor and mutually agreed to in advance by the Government. 5.5.1.3 For all Production and Non-production service requests, the Contractor shall categorize, acknowledge, and respond in accordance with the following table: Category Severity Level 1 Definition "Down" or "Unavailable" service Acknowledgement within 15 minutes of submission of request Response Restore, resolve, or provide a workaround within five hours. Provide Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Restore, resolve, or provide a workaround within ten hours. Provide RCA.

Severity Level 2

"Up" but some services are not available or degraded and production is severely impacted

within three hours of submission of request

Category Severity Level 3

Definition "Up" most services are available and neither production nor migration requests are severely impacted

Acknowledgement Within one day of submission of request

Response Submit a plan that would completely resolve the issue within one day. Upon government approval, execute the plan.

5.5.2 Performance 5.5.2.1 The contractor shall maintain the computing environment to achieve performance and availability requirements. The contractor shall maintain the system as necessary and at its expense, in order to comply with the agreed upon SLAs. 5.5.2.2 System(s) shall be considered "Unavailable" to the user community at large when response time exceeds 10 seconds for any of initial login, navigation to/from selected menus, and component page display. If the user is not reverted to the portal homepage or another page upon the request timing out, then the system is deemed "Unavailable", and the user shall be provided with a message or error. 5.5.2.3 The contractor shall maintain the computing environment to ensure process scheduler(s) can run regularly scheduled jobs incrementally and at regular time intervals, daily, weekly, and monthly, as well as allow jobs to be stored for retrieval for 10 business days. 5.5.2.4 In order to maintain data consistency and integrity, the contractor shall maintain the computing environment so as to ensure transmission, receipt, and synchronization of required system and network messaging between environments. 5.5.2.5 The contractor shall carry out performance tuning as needed to maintain service level agreements and performance response times. The contractor shall generate performance tuning reports, as needed, or upon request of the COR. 5.5.2.6 All infrastructure changes to maintain performance to the established minimally acceptable service levels shall be borne and documented by the contractor, and agreed upon in advance by the COR. 5.6 CONTINGENCY PLANNING AND DISASTER RECOVERY 5.6.1 Disaster Recovery Performance The contractor shall implement a technically correct, government-approved disaster recovery (DR) solution that will enable recovery of USCG Applications (Production) to a fully operational status (data and applications), at a minimum 75% loading capacity/performance level, and to a state no older than the previous day in terms of last daily back up. 5.6.2 Data Restoration The contingency/disaster recovery solution shall have the capability to re-establish data to the previous day's state (including all non-production, training and test areas) at another facility. This capability shall be in place at all times and accommodate every configuration change. All non-production restores shall be at the original data center facility with the exception of disaster recovery which shall provide for production data to be restored to the DR site. Backups shall be on dedicated media and shall be encrypted to meet FIPS 140-2 requirements.

5.6.3 Annual Test The contractor shall collaborate with the government to establish a contingency plan for the Direct Access system, and then conduct an annual test of that contingency plan. This may require failover of elements of the production systems to the DR servers. Annual testing of the contingency plan shall occur in the April ­ May timeframe. 5.6.4 Backup Encryption and Testing The contractor shall maintain a regular backup schedule and strategy where government data is encrypted (FIPS 140-2 compliant) and backed up to dedicated media. Copies of backup media shall be maintained at an offsite location. The backup strategy shall be tested yearly by the 31st of March. 5.7 MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT 5.7.1 Maintenance Standard The contractor shall maintain the computing environment to achieve performance and availability as stated in this PWS. 5.7.2 Service Requests The Contractor shall have a maintenance and support plan that includes a systematic process for the government to enter service requests. The government must be able to enter service requests 24-hours-a-day/7-days-a-week (24/7). 5.7.3 Help Desk The Contractor shall have a maintenance and support plan to include 24/7 Help Desk (or equivalent) support that allows call in and/or on-line service requests. The plan shall also include escalation processes, describing procedures and contact information for each level of escalation. 5.7.4 Service Request Resolution The Contractor shall be the responsible lead and single point of contact for the resolution of all service requests, both critical and non-critical. The COR shall make the determination if the resolution meets the desired result. 5.7.5 User Redirection The maintenance and support plan shall include a process to redirect users to a page with an explanation when the system is not available due to maintenance being performed. 5.7.6 Maintenance Authorization The contractor shall maintain a list of government personnel authorized by the COR who may be contacted for immediate approval of maintenance and support activities that affect the availability of production/non-production. 5.7.7 Software Maintenance The contractor shall manage and maintain all third party software including requesting patches and upgrades from the appropriate vendor in accordance with vendor Application support specification procedures. The contractor shall perform the duties of an Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) in accordance with vendor Application PeopleSoft and ImageNow Applications.

5.7.8 PeopleSoft Migrations The contractor shall perform PeopleSoft project migrations to the 8.0 and 9.x production environments from the non-production environments, and execute DataMover and SQL scripts based on service requests submitted by the government. 5.7.9 Bundles and Fixes The Contractor shall apply PeopleSoft bundles and fixes or, at Government request, provide a means for the Government to perform those activities. 5.8 REPORTS The Contractor shall provide weekly status reporting for service requests and maintenance activities. Also, the Contractor shall provide monthly reporting for Service Level Agreements and Service Requests. In addition the Contractor shall provide monthly reports that show the results of security scans and audit log reviews. 5.8.1       5.8.2      5.8.3    5.8.4        The weekly status report for Service Requests shall contain: Service Request Number Date reported/opened Severity level Short description Status Current activity The weekly status report for Maintenance shall contain: Service Request Number Short description Date and time Scheduled/unscheduled downtime Government Notification ­ date, time, person The monthly report for Service Level Agreements shall contain: Measured availability for production and non-production showing actual versus expected Response time to repair for Severity Levels 1, 2, and 3, showing actual time to repair versus expected time to repair Down time for scheduled and unscheduled maintenance The monthly report for Service Requests shall contain: Service Request number Severity Level Type of Service Request Date and time reported/opened Response time (actual and expected) Affected Service Short Description

5.9 CONFIGURATION and CHANGE MANAGEMENT 5.9.1 Process The contractor shall implement and maintain a Configuration and Change Management process, including tools or systems used to submit and track requests. The process shall include escalation procedures associated with long standing change requests. The Contractor shall provide training and documentation to the Government for the Change Management process. 5.9.2 Coordination and Deferral The contractor shall coordinate any changes in hardware, network, and software or any other change with the government. The government may defer the change based on impact of business operations. 5.9.3 Vendor Recommended Changes The contractor shall be proactive with regards to application of vendor recommended patches for the hosted services, application and database, security patches and security configuration changes so as to reduce the risks to the Direct Access system.

6.0

GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBILITIES

The United States Coast Guard will be responsible for the following:  Data within Direct Access and Imaging - All rights to the data, images, and associated applications remains with the government.  Direct Access Application operation and use.  Development and maintenance of Direct Access customizations, interfaces, and enhancements - these activities will be performed and managed within the nonproduction environments.  Approval authority, coordination, and internal communication for upgrades of software, hardware, telecommunications and any other change to any aspect of Direct Access including timeliness and resources.  Domain name services - USCG will provide copies of applicable DHS/USCG security requirements within one month of their release.  Certification and Accreditation (C&A) of the Direct Access system and the associated Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M) management.  Provision of personnel with the appropriate clearance levels to support the security certification/accreditation processes under this contract in accordance with DHS MD 4300A, DHS Sensitive Systems Policy and Handbook.  Development of documentation and provision of any required information for all levels of classification in support of the C&A process. All security C&A will be performed using the DHS processes, methodology and tools.

7.0

REFERENCES

7.1 National Institute of Standard and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-37 rev 1 7.2 NIST SP 800-53 Rev 3 (or Rev 4 dependent upon start date) 7.3 DHS Sensitive Systems Policy Directive 4300A

7.4 DHS MD 4300A Sensitive Systems Handbook 7.5 General Services Administration FEDRAMP Program 7.6 DHS MD 11042.1, Safeguarding Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) Information 7.7 Non-disclosure Agreement (DHS Form 11000-6) 7.8 Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 7.9 NIST SP 800-30 and NIST SP 800-39 7.10 USCG COMDINST 5200.3 7.11 Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2 7.12 Applicable DHS Hardening guidelines/standards and Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Information Guide (STIGs) 7.13 Homeland Security Enterprise Architecture (HLS EA) and Coast Guard Enterprise Architecture (CGEA) requirements

8.0
ITEM 1 2 3 4 5

DELIVERABLES
PWS SECTION 1.9 1.10/5.8 5.1.1 5.1.1 5.4.2 DELIVERABLE/EVENT Kick-Off Meeting Monthly Status Report Transition Management Plan Risk Management Plan SSAE 16 DUE BY Within 5 business days of award 10th day of month for preceding month Within 5 business days of award Within 5 business days of award Annually, preferably to coincide with the government fiscal year. NLT due date of 2 months from the end of the year. As needed. Monthly, 5th day of month for preceding month Monthly, 5th day of month for preceding month Within 2 weeks of award

6 7 8 9

5.4.4 5.4.9/5.8 5.4.10/5.8 5.5.1

SSL Certificates Results of Security Scans Results of Audit Log reviews Final Service Level Agreements (with Credits)

ITEM 10 11

PWS SECTION 5.5.1/5.8.2 5.5.1.4/5.5.1.6

DELIVERABLE/EVENT Production Environment Maintenance Schedule Root Cause Analysis (RCA)

DUE BY within two weeks of award Within 1 week - After every Severity Level 1 and 2 incident

12

5.5.1/5.8.3

SLA Compliance report (Measurement used)

13 14 15 16 17

5.5.2.6 5.6.3 5.6.4 5.6.4 5.9

Performance Tuning Report DR Test and Results Back-up Schedule Back-up Strategy Test System Change Documentation

Monthly, 10th day of month for preceding month (Contractor shall provide detail/formula for how Service Level Standard for Availability is measured within a contract month and method of reporting) As needed Annually NLT May 31st within two weeks of award Annually NLT March 31st 2 weeks prior to any implementation

