
EPA REGION 7
                                                         MINIMUM TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
                                                        CALL ACCOUNTING SOFTWARE USED WITH AVAYA

EPA Region 7 seeks to purchase call accounting software that meets the following minimum technical capabilities:


1) Call accounting software Specifications:

2) Call accounting software for an Avaya VoIP environment.

3) Software needs to be able to detect and notify administrators immediately of toll fraud

4) Needs to have the ability to track phone equipment.

5) Needs Online Telephone directory that updates daily

6) LDAP and Active Directory integration

7) Instant call data collection

8) Capable of auto distribution of reports via email, network printer, screen, local printer and file.

9) Needs report generator that has the ability to drilldown to detailed information for employee specific information.

10) Graphical Reporting and reports

11) Adhoc reporting capable.

12) ODBC compliant database.

13) Need to be able to easily add more sites later without an overhaul of the system

14) Would like to have the ability to do cost allocation

15) Auto archiving capability with the ability to print historical reports

16) Ability to Import and Export Active Directory databases, calling card information and call records from ASA, Excel, Access, txt and CSV and
has scheduling capabilities.

17) Performs the following trunk analysis capabilities:

      a.) Identify longest calls for potential Toll Fraud or Employee Misuse.
      b.) Determine if long distance calls are being routed properly over your least                      expensive trunks.
      c.) Pinpoint Unused Trunks (and Extensions) and eliminate unnecessary monthly                 charges.
      d.) Find out how busy trunks / circuits are for each hour of the day.
      e.) Pinpoint harassing calls made one minute ago.
      f.) Determine if lines or VoIP Gateway are busy.
      g.) Pinpoint specific calls like, “Information 411 or 555-1212”, “Emergency 911”,
          “900 calls”, and more.
      h.) List hourly inbound/outbound calls for each employee / department / location.
      i.) Determine who made calls after hours / on holidays / on weekends.
      j.)  List the phone numbers called most often.
      k.) Import Calling Card and Cellular call data for consolidated reporting and billing.
