<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHSBP1109R2611%28FINAL%29.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHSBP1109R2611%28FINAL%29.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT
I, _______________________________________, an individual official, employee, consultant, or subcontractor of or to _____________________ (the Authorized Entity), intending to be legally bound, hereby consent to the terms in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted conditional access to certain information, specified below, that is owned by, produced by, or in the possession of the United States Government.
(Signer will acknowledge the category or categories of information that he or she may have access to, and the signer's willingness to comply with the standards for protection by placing his or her initials in front of the applicable category or categories.)
Initials:

Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII)

I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with all requirements of the PCII program set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (CII Act) (Title II, Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135, 6 USC 101 et seq.), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto (6 CFR Part 29), as amended, and the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and with any such requirements that may be officially communicated to me by the PCII Program Manager or the PCII Program Manager's designee.
Initials:

Sensitive Security Information (SSI)

I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with the standards for access, dissemination, handling, and safeguarding of SSI information as cited in this Agreement and in accordance with 49 CFR Part 1520, "Protection of Sensitive Security Information," "Policies and Procedures for Safeguarding and Control of SSI," as amended, and any supplementary guidance issued by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security.
Initials:

Other Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU)

As used in this Agreement, sensitive but unclassified information is an over-arching term that covers any information, not otherwise indicated above, which the loss of, misuse of, or unauthorized access to or modification of could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Section 552a of Title 5, as amended, but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This includes information categorized by DHS or other government agencies as: For Official Use Only (FOUO); Official Use Only (OUO); Sensitive Homeland Security Information (SHSI); Limited Official Use (LOU); Law Enforcement Sensitive (LES); Safeguarding Information (SGI); Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI); and any other identifier used by other government agencies to categorize information as sensitive but unclassified. I attest that I am familiar with, and I will comply with the standards for access, dissemination, handling, and safeguarding of the information to which I am granted access as cited in this Agreement and in accordance with the guidance provided to me relative to the specific category of information.
I understand and agree to the following terms and conditions of my access to the information indicated above: 1. I hereby acknowledge that I have received a security indoctrination concerning the nature and protection of information to which I have been provided conditional access, including the procedures to be followed in ascertaining whether other persons to whom I contemplate disclosing this information have been approved for access to it, and that I understand these procedures. 2. By being granted conditional access to the information indicated above, the United States Government has placed special confidence and trust in me and I am obligated to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the laws, regulations, and directives applicable to the specifi c categories of information to which I am granted access. 3. I attest that I understand my responsibilities and that I am familiar with and will comply with the standards for protecting such information that I may have access to in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the laws, regulations, and/or directives applicable to the specifi c categories of information to which I am granted access. I understand that the United States Government may conduct inspections, at any time or place, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the conditions for access, dissemination, handling and safeguarding information under this Agreement.
DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04) Page 1

4. I will not disclose or release any information provided to me pursuant to this Agreement without proper authority or authorization. Should situations arise that warrant the disclosure or release of such information I will do so only under approved circumstances and in accordance with the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific categories of information. I will honor and comply with any and all dissemination restrictions cited or verbally relayed to me by the proper authority. 5. (a) For PCII - (1) Upon the completion of my engagement as an employee, consultant, or subcontractor under the contract, or the completion of my work on the PCII Program, whichever occurs first, I will surrender promptly to the PCII Program Manager or his designee, or to the appropriate PCII officer, PCII of any type whatsoever that is in my possession. (2) If the Authorized Entity is a United States Government contractor performing services in support of the PCII Program, I will not request, obtain, maintain, or use PCII unless the PCII Program Manager or Program Manager's designee has first made in writing, with respect to the contractor, the certification as provided for in Section 29.8(c) of the implementing regulations to the CII Act, as amended. (b) For SSI and SBU - I hereby agree that material which I have in my possession and containing information covered by this Agreement, will be handled and safeguarded in a manner that affords sufficient protection to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of or inadvertent access to such information, consistent with the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific categories of information. I agree that I shall return all information to which I have had access or which is in my possession 1) upon demand by an authorized individual; and/or 2) upon the conclusion of my duties, association, or support to DHS; and/or 3) upon the determination that my official duties do not require further access to such information. 6. I hereby agree that I will not alter or remove markings, which indicate a category of information or require specific handling instructions, from any material I may come in contact with, in the case of SSI or SBU, unless such alteration or removal is consistent with the requirements set forth in the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the specific category of information or, in the case of PCII, unless such alteration or removal is authorized by the PCII Program Manager or the PCII Program Manager's designee. I agree that if I use information from a sensitive document or other medium, I will carry forward any markings or other required restrictions to derivative products, and will protect them in the same matter as the original. 7. I hereby agree that I shall promptly report to the appropriate official, in accordance with the guidance issued for the applicable category of information, any loss, theft, misuse, misplacement, unauthorized disclosure, or other security violation, I have knowledge of and whether or not I am personally involved. I also understand that my anonymity will be kept to the extent possible when reporting security violations. 8. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such violation may result in the cancellation of my conditional access to the information covered by this Agreement. This may serve as a basis for denying me conditional access to other types of information, to include classified national security information. 9. (a) With respect to SSI and SBU, I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of the information not consistent with the terms of this Agreement. (b) With respect to PCII I hereby assign to the entity owning the PCII and the United States Government, all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of PCII not consistent with the terms of this Agreement. 10. This Agreement is made and intended for the benefit of the United States Government and may be enforced by the United States Government or the Authorized Entity. By granting me conditional access to information in this context, the United States Government and, with respect to PCII, the Authorized Entity, may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement including, but not limited to, application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in breach of this Agreement. I understand that if I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I could be subjected to administrative, disciplinary, civil, or criminal action, as appropriate, under the laws, regulations, or directives applicable to the category of information involved and neither the United States Government nor the Authorized Entity have waived any statutory or common law evidentiary privileges or protections that they may assert in any administrative or court proceeding to protect any sensitive information to which I have been given conditional access under the terms of this Agreement.

DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04)

Page 2

11. Unless and until I am released in writing by an authorized representative of the Department of Homeland Security (if permissible for the particular category of information), I understand that all conditions and obligations imposed upon me by this Agreement apply during the time that I am granted conditional access, and at all times thereafter. 12. Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should find any provision of this Agreement to be unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. 13. My execution of this Agreement shall not nullify or affect in any manner any other secrecy or non-disclosure Agreement which I have executed or may execute with the United States Government or any of its departments or agencies. 14. These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 12958, as amended; Section 7211 of Title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); Section 1034 of Title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); Section 2302(b)(8) of Title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 18, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 USC 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling. 15. Signing this Agreement does not bar disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of law. 16. I represent and warrant that I have the authority to enter into this Agreement. 17. I have read this Agreement carefully and my questions, if any, have been answered. I acknowledge that the briefing officer has made available to me any laws, regulations, or directives referenced in this document so that I may read them at this time, if I so choose.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT Acknowledgement
Typed/Printed Name: Government/Department/Agency/Business Address Telephone Number:

I make this Agreement in good faith, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion.
Signature:

WITNESS:
Typed/Printed Name: Government/Department/Agency/Business Address Telephone Number:

Signature:

This form is not subject to the requirements of P.L. 104-13, "Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995" 44 USC, Chapter 35.
DHS Form 11000-6 (08-04) Page 3

U. S. Customs and Border Protection Program Development Management and Support Services ­ Phase II Task Order 1 ­ Contract Coordination and Program Support Services

Statement of Work

July 6, 2009

Table of Contents   
1.0  2.0  3.0  4.0 
a.  b.  c.  d.  e.  f. 

Purpose................................................................................................................................. 1  Background .......................................................................................................................... 1  Scope and Period of Performance........................................................................................ 2  Contract Coordination and Program Support Services........................................................ 3 
PDMSS Phase II Contract Core Team Support ................................................................................ 3   FM&E On-Site Team Support .......................................................................................................... 4   Earned Value Management ............................................................................................................... 4   Governance Board Support ............................................................................................................... 4   Business Partner Support .................................................................................................................. 4   Risk Management Support ................................................................................................................ 4  

5.0  6.0 

Monthly Reports .................................................................................................................. 5  Schedule of Deliverables ..................................................................................................... 5 

-i-

Program Development Management and Support Services ­ Phase II Task Order 1 ­ Contract Coordination and Program Support Services 1.0 Purpose 

The purpose of this Performance-Based Statement of Work (SOW) is to coordinate and manage the work performed under the Program Development and Management Support Services (PDMSS) Phase II contract, including all task orders issued under the contract, and to ensure the achievement of all requirements in in a timely, effective and comprehensive manner. This Task Order SOW correlates to the requirements and objectives set forth in the contract's Statement of Objectives (SOO) and all other applicable contract terms and conditions. It includes the requirements and the required actions to be performed by the contractor under this task order, which are to achieve the comprehensive and effective management of the PDMSS Phase II contract. These are to include the managing, overseeing, tracking, controlling, and reporting progress and results, as well as the managing, overseeing and integrating work that is performed under specific task orders that are issued under PDMSS Phase II contract. Furthermore, it includes identifying and mitigating both the contract and program risks.

2.0

Background 

Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is responsible for managing, securing and controlling the nation's borders. Its primary mission is keeping terrorists and their weapons out of the U.S. It also has a responsibility for securing and facilitating trade and travel while enforcing hundreds of U.S. regulations, including immigration and drug laws. To carry out these responsibilities, CBP operates, occupies and maintains numerous facilities, including the ports of entry (POEs). CBP views its Facility Management and Engineering (FM&E) performance measurements as dynamic as the program evolves. Its Strategic Plan, as well as other planning and budget documents, call upon CBP to meet the Department of Homeland Security's requirements and improve program efficiency and effectiveness, which includes maintaining a results-oriented focus that clearly describes program goals and objectives. It calls for an integrated planning methodology that is supported by meaningful performance measures as a key component for demonstrating business results.

-1-

3.0  

Scope and Period of Performance 

This task order calls for the contractor's services to provide continuing support to achieve FM&E program development, improvement, and support services for the efficient and effective management of CBP FM&E operations. This task also serves as the means by which the contractor shall provide the overall management support and oversight relative to the FM&E real property program's technical support needs. This will entail tracking and controlling the work that is performed under all task orders issued under this contract. The contractor's responsibilities encompass supporting CBP's end-to-end real property program activities that are required to develop, execute, sustain, and dispose of real property and infrastructure portfolios. The contractor will provide the full range of current and future enterprise wide management portfolio tasks and disciplines throughout the PDMSS program, enabling the translation of the CBP strategic vision into measurable results. This includes the determination, analysis and reporting of cost, schedule and performance measures. The task order is intended to accommodate advances in management and business processes and technology that will allow continuous improvement to achieve CBP's mission. The work to be performed under this Task Order 1 is detailed in Section 4.0 below. Other task orders that are anticipated are listed below. (This list is not necessarily all-inclusive and may differ, subject to requirements and changes that are not known at the time of Task Order 1's issuance). Task Orders for Technical Support 1. Strategic Resource Assessments 2. Annual Condition Assessments 3. Leasing Analyses 4. Data management and decision support systems 5. Repair and alterations needs analyses and prioritization 6. Operations and maintenance management 7. Energy provider model development and/or updates 8. Environmental management program development and updates 9. Cost estimating ­ for Congressional Spend Plans and budgeting 10. Real Property special studies 11. Design Standards support Task Orders for Program Services 1. Other special studies 2. Policy research and development 3. Training 4. Business Process Improvements 5. Communications The period of performance for this task order is for one year. This task order contains options for renewal in accordance with the contract's terms and conditions. -2-

4.0  

Contract Coordination and Program Support Services 

a. PDMSS Phase II Contract Core Team Support The contractor shall develop and provide a continually improving management structure that motivates CBP and its internal and external partners to share responsibilities and aligns partner missions to continue to improve upon and maintain all aspects of the FM&E operations and the real property program. Such a structure shall: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Clearly identify program goals, including those associated with prioritization and execution of program elements. Identify roles and responsibilities for all entities contributing to the CBP real property program. Support CBP projects and programs so they meet FM&E Strategic Plan goals and objectives. Identify strategies to motivate partners to assume responsibility for the information, resources, data development and data maintenance activities. Reduce redundancies and maximize the usefulness and efficiency of partner contributions and responsibilities. Develop and manage standards, product specifications, and quality in a way that minimizes the complexity of the standards and ensures real property data and systems are interoperable. Ensure a flexible solution that adapts to evolving CBP real property and related program standards. Provide reliable Performance Management/Earned Value Management information that ensures quality, timeliness and delivery within pricing and/or cost constraints. Such information should include program and project cost, schedule and performance metrics that are translated into a CBP earned value management (EVM) system. Provide assistance to FM&E for monitoring and tracking its progress to meeting its Strategic Goals. Evaluate program performance and recommend improvements. Improve the program management office's effectiveness through knowledge management, continuous improvement strategies, and innovative technical and business practices. Identify, track, mitigate and resolve program risks. Conduct contract and task order close-out activities.

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

The contractor shall develop a project plan and work breakdown structure that details the tasks it will undertake to accomplish the PDMSS Phase II contract support.

-3-

b. FM&E On-Site Team Support The contractor shall provide the necessary resources and tools to achieve FM&E on-site team support at the FM&E locations at Indianapolis, IN; Dallas, TX, and Laguna, CA. This effort shall support Center real property operations and the management of CBP-wide, regional and local real property programs. This support may include aspects of work that are further described within this statement of work, such as earned value management reporting, maintaining and applying design standards, program development, budget tracking and allocations, supporting governance boards and recommending and implementing training and development programs. c. Earned Value Management   The contractor shall use EVM in its tracking of the PDMSS Phase II contract's performance, schedules and costs. The contractor may be called upon to introduce and implement EVM into FM&E projects, which may include training, tracking progress and capturing lessons-learned. Application of EVM with respect to the planning and budgeting for capital assets shall be in conformance with OMB Circular A-11, Part 7, entitled "Planning, Budgeting, Acquisition, and Management of Capital Assets". d. Governance Board Support The contractor may be called upon to provide governance board support, which may include designing or refining approval and quality control processes and structures. The contractor may also provide research and advice concerning project approvals, implementation of new standards and regulations, OMB 300 submissions, and other agency documents. e. Business Partner Support The contractor may be called upon to provide real property program management support to the Real Property Chief Operating Officer and/or to the real property business partners, including the Office of Air and Marine, Border Patrol, Mission Support and the Office of Field Operations, including ports of entry. The support will include expert advisory and assistance in evaluating overall FM&E program effectiveness and progress and its ability to support business partner goals and operations. f. Risk Management Support The contractor shall perform both PDMSS Phase II contract risk and FM&E risk assessment, risk mitigation and abatement. Risks shall be identified by category, risk probability, impact and responsible party for monitoring and responding to the risk. The contractor shall utilize a dashboard-type approach for identifying, categorizing and tracking risks.

-4-

5.0

Monthly Reports 

The contractor shall provide monthly reports on the fifth workday following the last day of the month being reported. The report shall describe the work performed; work to be accomplished in the following period; resources utilized; funds remaining; areas of concern; updated project plan(s) and work breakdown structures.

6.0    
Reference

Schedule of Deliverables 

Deliverable

Date Due to Contracting Officer's Technical Representative or Designee

4.0a, 5.0

Project Management Plan and WBS

4.0c 4.0h 5.0

Earned Value Management reports Risk Management Report Monthly Report

22 workdays after task order award Monthly Monthly 7th Workday following end of reporting month

 

-5-

U. S. Customs and Border Protection Program Development Management and Support Services ­ Phase II Task Order 2 ­ Strategic Resource Assessments

Statement of Work

July 24, 2009

1

Table of Contents
1.0  Definitions and Background.................................................................................................... 3  2.0  Scope of Work ......................................................................................................................... 3  3.0  Strategic Resource Assessments.............................................................................................. 3  1)  Physical Assessments .................................................................................................. 4  2)  Needs Assessments...................................................................................................... 4  3)  SRA Reports ................................................................................................................ 4  a)  SRA Sections .......................................................................................................... 4  b)  Place of Performance .............................................................................................. 4  c)  Submission of SRA Reports ................................................................................... 4  Attachment A ­ Strategic Resource Assessment Sites.................................................................. 6 

2

Program Development Management and Support Services ­ Phase II Task Order 2 ­ Strategic Resource Assessments 1.0

Definitions and Background

The Facility Management and Engineering Directorate (FM&E) within U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) plans, delivers, sustains, and disposes of the facilities and infrastructure required to support CBP operational missions, goals, and priorities. To meet strategic goals and objectives, FM&E partners with operational and mission support customers to translate their mission needs into programs of requirements for facilities and infrastructure. The associated real property and infrastructure portfolios are diverse, growing, and represent a variety of funding and ownership methods, including owned, leased, and rights to use provided by statute. In addition to using its own direct construction and leasing authority, CBP's primary delivery providers are the General Services Administration (GSA) and the US Army Corps of Engineers. FM&E seeks a service provider to expand and improve upon the Strategic Resource Assessment (SRA) process that has been implemented within the Land Ports of Entry (POE) portfolio. The SRA's purpose is to assist in determining the levels of priority for CBP National Facility Projects. An SRA gathers internal and external stakeholder feedback, evaluates the facility's existing conditions, predicts future housing, personnel and workload requirements, performs space capacity analyses, determines options to meet future needs, and conducts cost estimates for recommendations. SRAs were initially performed only on LPO locations. The data gathered through the SRA process is used to prioritize projects for a five-year national investment portfolio plan. The contractor will provide SRAs for the following types of assets: ˇ GSA and CBP-Owned and Leased Land, Air, and Sea POEs inspection facilities.

2.0

Scope of Work

Using the current inventory of CBP occupied real property, the scope of this task order is to use a phased approach to survey approximately 20% of the more than 600 POE inspection facilities annually. Attachment A lists the sites to be assessed. These properties are located in multiple areas of the United States, Puerto Rico, and Guam. The anticipated total contract performance period (including options) is 3 years, and that in each year the contractor shall perform approximately 20% of real property SRAs.

3.0

Strategic Resource Assessments

Contractor will perform SRAs on facilities identified and prioritized by CBP. Although the underlying principals of the SRA process will remain uniform, the documentation, prioritization, and outputs will be responsive to each facility's requirements, ownership, and funding constraints. 3

1) Physical Assessments SRAs consist of physical and needs-based assessments. The physical assessment focuses on the needs of CBP-owned facilities and is performed through walk-through evaluations and discussions with the field, port, and GSA representatives. The physical assessment determines the structural conditions of the facility and is meant to gain a general perspective on the facility's general function. In addition, the physical assessment determines needs relating to occupied spaces and security. 2) Needs Assessments In addition to the physical assessments of the facility which determines the general functionality, a needs-based assessment allows stakeholders to understand the impact of the existing facility's conditions on productivity, work flow, projected workload and staff. This includes meeting with internal and external stakeholders including (but not limited to) such groups as the Department of Transportation, GSA, etc to allow input regarding planned projects. 3) SRA Reports Upon completion of physical and needs assessments, a final package is developed to include future facility needs. This package describes findings from the two assessments as well as feedback and projected facility needs. The SRA is used in the CBP investment strategy as well as for long-range facility planning. a) SRA Sections ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Section 1: Executive Summary Section 2: Background and description of the planning process Section 3: Overview of facility and area demographics, workload trends, and staffing summaries Section 4: Provides a detailed description of the facility in addition to findings from the two assessments Section 5: Provides a summary of the recommendations b) Place of Performance Program objectives for this task order will be accomplished at CBP Headquarters, 1300 Pennsylvania, Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, and at CBP's Facilities Centers in Indianapolis, IN, Dallas TX and Laguna Niguel, CA. Contractor travel throughout the Continental US and US Territories will be required to fulfill program objectives and shall be accomplished in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract. c) Submission of SRA Reports Unless specified otherwise by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR), all reporting will be submitted to the designated managing member of this task order (as described

4

in Task Order 1 - Contract Coordination and Program Support). Chief person in charge will submit all the necessary documents to COTR.

5

Attachment A ­ Strategic Resource Assessment Sites
, Port of Entry BU - Real Property Unique Identifier Facility Name Gross Area (S.F.) SAP Area (S.F.) Size Category Street Address City State

AIR PORTS OF ENTRY Newark Philadelphia Dulles JFK - John F. Kennedy San Diego LAND PORTS OF ENTRY Pac Highway Lynden Point Roberts Sumas Laredo Bridge II Laredo Bridge III Laredo Bridge IV Roma Eagle Pass I Eagle Pass II Presidio Andrade Tecate 50 ADDITIONAL LPOE DESKTOP SURVEY REPORTS WA WA WA WA TX TX TX TX TX TX TX CA CA Newark Philadelphia Dulles New York San Diego NJ PA VA NY CA

Lincoln Juarez Colombia World Trade

The Attached list is subject to change.

6

Department of Homeland Security U. S. Customs and Border Protection Program Development Management and Support Services ­ Phase II Task Order 3 ­ Annual Real Property Assessment

Statement of Work

July 24, 2009

-1-

Table of Contents 1.0  2.0  3.0  4.0  DEFINITION & BACKGROUND .......................................................................... 3  SCOPE OF WORK .................................................................................................. 3  DESCRIPTION OF TASKS, DELIVERABLES AND PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE .................................................................................................... 4  GENERAL INFORMATION ................................................................................ 16 

ATTACHMENT A: Current FCA Data......................................................................... 17  ATTACHMENT B: The Definitions and Guidelines for Classifying Real and Personal Property .................................................................................................................. 18  ATTACHMENT C: Targeted Facility List..................................................................... 25  Acronyms ADA ARPA BE/BU BTU CBP COTR ECMs ECPs EMCS EMS FCA FCI FRPP HVAC O&M POC QCP ROI SOW

Americans with Disabilities Act Annual Real Property Assessments Business Entity and Building Unit British Thermal Unit U.S. Customs and Border Protection Contracting Officer's Technical Representative Energy Conservation Measures Energy Conservation Projects Energy Management Control System Energy Management System Facility Condition Assessments Facility Condition Index The Federal Real Property Profile report Heating, Ventilation, and Air-Conditioning Operation and Maintenance Points of Contact Quality Control Program Return on Investment Statement of Work

-2-

Program Development Management and Support Services -Phase II Task Order 3 -- Annual Real Property Assessment
July 7, 2009 1.0 DEFINITION & BACKGROUND

This documentation is the Statement of Work (SOW) for the services required to perform the annual Facility Condition Assessments (FCA), Facility Energy Audits, and Real Property Inventory which shall be collectively known as the Annual Real Property Assessments (ARPA). 1.1 Background In 2008, a comprehensive Facility Condition Assessment Report was completed for real property owned, directly leased and directly leased operated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). From this report, baseline information and a listing of property deficiencies and repair/replacement maintenance costs were established. The physical condition assessment included the following items/areas: the age, type of facility, and related building equipment systems; exterior structure; interior/finish systems; Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance; fire/life safety; site; Heating, Ventilation, and Air-Conditioning (HVAC); plumbing; electrical; and vertical transportation. In order to maintain and improve the condition of the properties a percentage of them are required to be reassessed annually. In response to the Energy Policy Act of 1992, Executive Order 13423, and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 CBP is required to perform annual energy audits on its facilities to identify how energy is being consumed and to further identify Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs) and Energy Conservation Projects (ECPs) that can be implemented to reduce energy usage, conserve water, and maintain sustainability as required by law. Lastly, CBP maintains a large inventory of facilities across the United States and that inventory changes regularly with the addition of new facilities and disposal of old facilities. CBP is required to annually provide the Federal Real Property Profile report (FRPP) to the Federal Government to track exactly what properties are owned by the U.S. Government.

2.0

SCOPE OF WORK

Using the existing individual Facility Condition Assessments as baseline documentation inspect approximately 25% or roughly 1,125,000 sq. ft. of real property as determined by -3-

the CBP Real Property Center (sample of the data available is included in Attachment A: Current Facility Condition Assessment Data). These properties will be located in multiple areas of the United States and Puerto Rico. Authenticate the accuracy of the original assessment report using the task descriptions and guidelines provided in Section 3 below. Gather new energy audit information with a certified energy auditor or registered engineer. Determine if additions or deletions need to be made to the listing of Real Property facilities through consultation with CBP and identify all immediate maintenance needs. Through consultation with the site staff, Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR), or knowledgeable maintenance person at each property, determine if the current or projected repair/replacement expenses should be increased or decreased in any manner. Also determine if the site staff knows of any other real property needs not identified in the original or current assessment. CBP will provide all required Points of Contact (POC) required for each facility. In regard to each property's originally identified ADA issues determine if there are immediate changes or alternate accommodations that need to be made. Also identify what deficiency or repair items have been completed since the original assessment. Prior to starting this contract work the Contractor will attend a two (2) day familiarization and training session at the CBP Real Property Center in the Indianapolis office of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. This meeting shall be the kick-off meeting to coordinate how the Contractor and the CBP Real Property Center will complete the ARPA process. The Contractors proposed contract length should be for one (1) base year with options for two (2) additional years, noting that in each year the Contractor shall perform approximately 25% or roughly 1,125,000 sq. ft. of real property ARPAs as determined by the CBP Real Property Center.

3.0

DESCRIPTION OF TASKS, DELIVERABLES AND PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The tasks and deliverables to be accomplished by the Contractor are listed below, but are NOT limited solely to these items. 3.1 Physical Condition Objectives 3.1.1. Confirm that the square footages for each Business Entity and Building Unit (BE/BU) are accurate (see Section 3.4.1 for definitions and guidelines). Acceptable confirmation methodologies will be reviewed at the Contractor training session. 3.1.2. Confirm that the addresses for each BE/BU and facility names are accurate. Also, collect the nearest major intersection information for each BE/BU and GPS coordinates (in decimal degrees) at each BE/BU. Acceptable confirmation methodologies will be reviewed at the Contractor training session. 3.1.3. Identify the occupied hours of operation for each BE/BU. Each facility should either be classified as 24 hrs or provide the open and close time in military time (e.g. open 08:00 and close 17:00). -4-

3.1.4. Place two CBP identifiers on each building identifying its BE/BU number. The identifier will be a permanent placard no larger than 3" x 6" with information and location to be specified by CBP. Typical information may be BE/BU, GPS Coordinates, and building address. 3.1.5. Confirm the accuracy of the original assessment and its defined deficiencies and update for any changed conditions. Identify and document any missing information that was not previously included in the original FCAs and is now required by this ARPA or was not fully discovered in the previous FCA. 3.1.6. Provide current condition information with illustrative digital photographs (in JPEG format). Also provide cost estimates for repair/replacement of the new deficiencies. 3.1.7. Validate maintenance needs and prioritize the items needing immediate attention, especially any that have changed significantly since the original assessment, and those needing attention within the next 12 months. Prioritization should be accomplished by evaluating the mission dependency and the potential for future damage and should be categorized as (1) Urgent ­ repair in less than 12 months (2) Critical ­ repair in 1-2 years (3) Not-Critical ­ should be repaired 2+ years. 3.1.8. Update the original Facility Condition Index (FCI) and projected repair or replacement expenditures through coordination with the on site staff and the Contractor's inspection team. CBP will provide the preferred FCI calculation. 3.1.9. If life safety issues exist, draw special attention to them to the POC and COTR. Life safety issues should be prioritized by their potential to cause harm to CBP employees or visitors. Categorization shall be either (1) Immediate danger ­ repair immediately (2) Potential danger ­ repair in less than 12 months (3) Safety issue ­ repair in 1-2 years. 3.1.10. Should Contractor encounter a new building or facility that is not included in the audit list, Contractor shall coordinate with the Real Property Center to confirm that it is a CBP Real Property Asset. If it is Real Property, Contractor shall add it to this ARPA SOW. 3.1.11. Identify any current failed structures or equipment. Possible examples are: Building structures; HVAC; Roof; Roadways or Parking Lots; Mechanical/Electrical/Plumbing Equipment; Generators; Elevator/Escalator; Fire Protection Equipment; Surveillance Systems; Communication Towers; Fencing; etc. For failed structures and equipment, indicate the type of equipment or construction; e.g. HVAC ­ 5 ton RTU; roof ­ shingle; parking lot ­ concrete; etc. 3.1.12. Completed work on past deficiencies should be noted in order to eliminate them from cost projections.

-5-

3.1.13. Determine the actual, or approximate, age of the facilities and the real property equipment (in addition to the HVAC equipment). Age groupings will be 0-5 years, 6-10, 11-20, 21- 40, 41+. 3.1.14. Update the existing data with the results, and defined conditions of this inspection. Also update, with consultation with the site staff and COTR, the cost estimates needed for future planning of facility renewals. 3.1.15. Verify that all ADA deficiencies identified during the original assessment have been modified for compliance or alternate accommodations made in order to meet ADA requirements. 3.1.16. Identify special purpose spaces and facility usage types as required by CBP. A sample of usage types are listed below. Additional information and usage types will be provided at the Contractor training. a. Holding cells - number and square footage. b. Firing ranges - number, square footage, interior or exterior. c. Vaults (for seized property) ­ number, square footage, wall material. d. Hazardous material storage areas (not including janitorial type storage) ­ number, size, and method of securing the area. 3.1.17. Define the amount of time needed to complete the Assessments. 3.2 Collect Energy Audit Information 3.2.1. List the size of the main electrical distribution panel for each building. Note if the service is single phase or three phase power. Also note if the panel cover is loose or missing and if it has the appropriate electrical Lock Out/Tag Out information and Arc Flashing Warning on it. 3.2.2. Number of doors. a. Square footage of each. b. Type of door. Examples: wood; metal; steel; glass/double glass or insulated; solid; hollow; insulated core; overhead. c. Is the door properly weather stripped? 3.2.3. Number of windows. a. Square footage of each. b. Identify the location by direction of the building. Windows are in which wall (North, South, East, or West). c. Type: Wood or Metal Frame d. Glazing: Single, double, insulated, etc. 3.2.4. Entire building a. Direction the main building entrance faces. b. Total building square footage c. Number of floors and square footage of each. d. Breakout basement and garage square footages separately. 3.2.5. Ceiling a. Ceiling Type: Suspended, drywall, open/exposed, other (describe). b. Insulation R-factor or its material type and thickness. c. Height of ceiling.

-6-

3.2.6. Walls: Define the exterior materials; e.g.: brick; block; wood or wood siding; horizontal aluminum or vinyl siding, vertical metal siding; stucco; or other material. All inspections shall be non-destructive. a. Insulation R-factor or its material type and thickness. b. Vapor barrier. Type and thickness. 3.2.7. Roof with material type, number of plys or layers, total square footage, and insulation type and thickness if applicable. 3.2.8. Foundation and flooring. Wood with crawl space, concrete slab, other. 3.2.9. Framing type. Stud walls (wood, metal), solid masonry, pole barn system, other. 3.2.10. Number of light fixtures. a. Type: incandescent; fluorescent; metal halide; high pressure sodium; high intensity discharge; other. b. Wattage and number of bulbs per fixture. c. Usage: ceiling or wall mounted; track; drop in; recessed; table lamps; other. 3.2.11. Electrical Appliances. Type and number. a. Computers. Number. Separate computer room with special cooling equipment. b. Copy machines, large printers, or other large IT devices. c. Microwave ovens. d. Refrigerator. Size (cubic feet), number, and usage. e. Vending machines, size and usage. Chilling units. f. Exhaust or cooling fans. g. Other regularly used power equipment. 3.2.12. Generators: a. Manufacturer b. Model and serial numbers c. Generator installation type (e.g. package interior unit, package exterior unit, custom installation) d. Generation capacity e. Fuel source (natural gas, electric, oil, etc.) f. Fuel delivery method (on-site tank or piped service) g. Total current meter hours on unit (if available) h. Classify as primary facility service or emergency backup i. If generator is primary service, what is the approximated typical running time (e.g. 8am-5pm, 24hrs, etc.) j. Triggering source (e.g. auto transfer switch, manual, electronic system, etc.) k. Indicate whether emissions controls are installed, if applicable. l. Determine if generator supports one building or multiple. If multiple indicate which buildings are supported. 3.2.13. EMS if applicable. a. Manufacturer. b. Model and serial numbers. c. What does the system control. -7-

d. Operational set points and control strategies. e. System problems or deficiencies. f. Can it be accessed from a remote site. 3.2.14. HVAC Equipment a. Provide Manufacturer, Model and Serial numbers, unit tonnage, BTU, and other pertinent nameplate information. b. Define type of equipment. c. Fuel source: natural gas, propane, fuel oil, electric, etc. d. System type and distribution method: steam; gas; forced air; chilled water; chilled air; other. e. Location of units: ground; roof; central plant; window; other. f. Age 3.2.15. Plumbing Fixture Information a. Number of units by type; e.g.: water closets (toilets); faucets; urinals; janitor closets with sinks; irrigation use or systems; drinking fountains; other. Number of automated verses manual units. Make special note of any waterless urinals. b. Number and size/capacity of water heaters and their heating source (gas/electric) and BTU rating. 3.2.16. Utility Meters a. Where a utility meter was not located in the existing facility condition assessments, confirm whether a meter does or does not actually exist. b. Confirm as to whether smart meters are installed. 3.2.17. Building Certifications a. Identify whether the building has any certifications such as LEED or Energy Star. 3.3. Energy Audits 3.3.1. Energy Audit Data ­ Contractor shall utilize the CBP Facility Energy Audit forms for the basis of its data collection as specified for each tier mentioned below. See Section 3.10, items 2-5, for a breakdown of Energy Audit Tiers by property square footages. The forms provided are intended to be the minimum data collection required and Contractor shall add all other data it deems necessary to complete the requested services. A draft sample data sheet shall be provided by the Contractor for approval by CBP prior to proceeding with FCA/Energy Auditing. The sample data sheet shall be submitted to verify that all required data will be collected and in what context it will be reported (e.g. what data fields will be provided back to the Government for each facility). The sample data sheet does not have to necessarily reflect how it will be visually formatted for final input into the CBP data collection. 3.3.2. Tier I Energy Audit a. Perform energy audit data collection requested in Section 3.2 only. 3.3.3. Tier II Energy Audit -8-

a. Collect all energy audit data requested in Section 3.2. b. Perform a portfolio type, general analysis of all buildings of this size category. This shall not include building by building analysis, but shall comprise a general overview of all the collected facilities. c. Propose ECMs and ECPs best practices that can be generally applied to the CBP facilities and buildings based on a recommended criteria for utilizing the proposed ECM or ECP. d. ECMs and ECPs of this category shall have return on investment (ROI) of 5-7 years. Each recommendation should be provided with the calculated payback period. e. Survey facility equipment and identify typical maintenance issues that have a negative impact on facility operation and energy consumption that are not identified in the FCA section (e.g. vents welded or taped shut). f. Propose general, not building specific, operation and maintenance (O&M) best practices that have been identified that, if implemented, will reduce energy consumption. 3.3.4. Tier III Energy Audit a. Collect all energy audit data requested in Section 3.2. b. Perform a detailed energy audit specific to each facility requested. c. Propose building specific O&M best practices that will reduce each facilities energy consumption and quantify by how much each O&M best practice will reduce the facilities energy consumption. d. Propose ECMs and ECPs that will have ROI's of 5-7 years. Each recommendation should be provided with the calculated payback period. e. Proposed ECMs and ECPs shall assume that the O&M best practices have been first implemented prior to ECM or ECP implementation. The intended result is that the building should be operating optimally, prior to capital expenditures, so that a more accurate representation of the true impact of a capital expenditure can be understood. 3.3.5. Tier IV Energy Audit a. Collect all energy audit data requested in Section 3.2. b. Perform Tier III Energy Audit plus the following: c. Provide energy balance report indicating what energy consumption the building should use versus what it actually is using and indicate where the energy is being used and lost. d. Recommend the best type of Energy Management System (EMS) that is remotely accessible and would be compatible with the audited facility. 3.3.6. Energy Audit Discussion a. The purpose of the requested energy audits is to obtain information about the CBP existing facilities in regards to their energy efficiency and to help CBP determine where efficiency

-9-

improvements can be made through better facility operations or capital improvement projects. b. Contractor shall utilize historical building data, utility data, existing facility conditions assessment data, and other information obtained by the Contractor to identify ECMs. Using this information, the Contractor shall generate a prioritized list of recommendations in sequence of implementation that are life-cycle cost effective and can be implemented in the facilities being audited. c. Energy Audit information shall include but not be limited to the following information as requested in each tier of audit: 1. Preliminary estimated energy and water consumption savings. 2. Preliminary estimated energy and water cost savings, including reduced maintenance costs. 3. Preliminary retrofit cost. 4. Description of existing equipment. 5. Description of the proposed retrofit equipment. 6. Overview of the general environmental impact and potential hazardous wastes identified through existing facility records, if any 7. Estimated potential payback period; ROI. d. Contractor shall propose ECPs of the following kind, but are not limited to: 1. Interior and exterior lighting replacement. 2. Transformer replacement. 3. Lighting control improvements. 4. Motor replacement with high efficiency or variable speed motors. 5. Construction of alternative generation or cogeneration facilities. 6. Boiler control improvements. 7. Packaged air conditioning unit replacement. 8. Cooling tower retrofit. 9. Economizer installation. 10. Energy management control system (EMCS) installation/replacement/alteration/recalibration. 11. Occupancy sensors (e.g., lighting and HVAC) 12. LED exit sign installation. 13. Fans and pump replacement or impeller trimming. 14. Chiller retrofit. 15. Upgrade of natural gas-fired boilers with new controls (low NOX burners). 16. Solar domestic hot water system. 17. Solar air preheating system. 18. Steam trap maintenance and replacement. -10-

19. Insulation installation and/or upgrade. 20. Variable speed drive utilization. 21. Weatherization. 22. Window and door replacement. 23. Window coverings and awnings. 24. Reflective solar window tinting. 25. Fuel cell installation. 26. Photovoltaic system installation. 27. Faucet replacement (infrared sensor). 28. Replacement of air conditioning and heating unit with a heat pump. 29. Addition of liquid refrigerant pump to a reciprocating air conditioning unit. 30. High efficiency refrigerator replacement. 31. High efficiency window air conditioner replacement. 32. Water conservation device installation. 33. Installation, maintenance and operation of power quality and reliability measures including uninterruptible power supply systems, back-up generators, emergency generators, etc. 34. Fuel switching technology or dual fuel controls. 35. Infrared heating system. 36. Heat pipe dehumidification. 37. Flash bake commercial cooking. 38. Thermal energy storage system. 39. Operation, maintenance modification and/or extension of utility distribution and collection system. 40. Training that will result in reduced energy costs. 41. Power factor correction measures and equipment. 42. Installation, maintenance and operation of standby propane facility. 43. Installation, maintenance and operation of gas distribution system and associated equipment. 44. Water distribution system leak detection, and cost effective repair. 45. Installation of new or sub-metering devices. 46. Load sharing devices to limit peak usage. 47. Soft start equipment on HVAC units. 48. Any other ECP that is cost effective, encourages the use of renewable energy, reduces the Government's energy consumption or energy demand or results in other energy infrastructure improvements. e. ECP Restrictions ­ The following ECPs will not be considered: 1. Measures which could jeopardize existing agency missions.

-11-

2. Measures which could jeopardize the operation of, or environmental conditions of, computers or computer rooms. 3. Measures that would result in increased water consumption. 4. Measures which would violate any federal, state, or local laws, codes or regulations. 5. Measures which degrade performance or reliability of existing Government equipment. 6. Measures that would reduce energy capacity currently reserved for future growth, mobilization needs, safety, emergency back-up, etc.

3.4. Identify Real Property Inventory 3.4.1. Real and Personal Property The original assessment identified BE/BU numbers as the unique identifiers in the CBP enterprise system. The Business Entity (BE) refers to the site location with its support buildings, and the Building Units (BU) are the individual buildings being occupied and used within the overall complex. Some are considered Real Property and others are considered Personal Property. The definitions and guidelines for classifying Real and Personal Property are attached to this document as Attachment B:The Definitions and Guidelines for Classifying Real and Personal Property. Conex converted storage/shipping containers generally do not qualify as Real Property assets. Further refinements on how to categorize facilities at the properties will be covered in the Indianapolis training session. a. Confirm Real and Personal identities and likely ownership for the various structures at the site. b. Confirm/reassign the appropriate SAP Usage Type for all real property (e.g. Firing Range, Boat Slip, Port Office, Residence, Tower, etc.). 3.4.2. Newly Identified Real Property Any facilities identified as real property that are not on the audit list and shall be added in as a part of this SOW. The Contractor shall work with the Real Property Center to fill out a BE/BU form in addition to this SOW. 3.4.3. Mission Dependency Executive Order 13327, Federal Real Property Asset Management, requires all federal agencies to develop asset management plans and to monitor several predetermined performance measures, including Mission Dependency. Mission Dependency identifies the value a Real Property asset brings to the performance of the agency's mission, according to one of the following categories: a. Mission Critical ­ Without the constructed asset, the mission is compromised. b. Mission Dependent, Not Critical ­ Does not fit into the Mission Critical or Not Mission Dependent Categories.

-12-

c. Not Mission Dependent ­ Mission unaffected by the loss of the constructed asset. In 2007, the Real Property Center conducted an initial review of the CBP facilities, and assigned values to indicate them as Mission Critical, Mission Dependent (Not Critical), or Not Mission Dependent. Through consultation with the on site staff and the COTR, confirm that the current mission values are accurate for each building. 3.5. Key Personnel Site Inspectors. The Contractor shall provide capable and competent personnel to complete the duties stated for each person's applicable labor category for this project. The Contractor shall only provide individuals possessing the appropriate skills, knowledge, experience, work ethic, and quality of work to provide CBP with a high quality finished assessment report per the requirements of this document. Resumes and certifications for all on site inspectors will be sent to CBP as part of the bid package. All members of the Contractor's ARPA team will be required to sign nondisclosure forms prior to their participation with the ARPA. 3.6. Quality Control The Contractor shall create a Quality Control Program (QCP) that ensures the functions defined in this Statement of Work are completed with the highest quality possible. A draft of the QCP shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval within 10 business days after the award of the contract. Any proposed changes must be pre-approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. Furthermore, all facility records shall be identically formatted for standardized reporting across all facilities with provisions in the records to accommodate special conditions encountered at each facility site. For data quality control, use standard fields of entry for common descriptions (e.g. Electric meter not el mtr) and standard data formats (e.g. Street not ST). Further discussion of this will be provided at the Contractor's training session. 3.7. Records/Data The CBP will provide all available and necessary CBP data to Contractor for their execution of this SOW. Contractor shall be responsible for updating the CBP database within 15 business days of the submission of the Contractor's final summary report for all the assessment properties. 3.8. Applicable Documents Reassessment Inspection Reports and accompanying support materials will be submitted to CBP 12 business days after the completion of each individual inspection. The Contractor will submit a preliminary Executive Summary 15 business days after the completion of the final assigned property inspection. 3.9. Available Documents The following documents and data will be made available to the Contractor: -13-

a. Attachment A - Current Facility Condition Assessment Data b. Attachment B - The Definitions and Guidelines for Classifying Real and Personal Property c. Attachment C - Targeted Facility List The following documents and data will be provided at a later date: d. Energy Audit Forms e. CBP identifier labels for attachment f. BE/BU Form g. SAP Usage Type The following documentation will most likely not be made available to Contractor for Energy Audits. In cases where this information is applicable refer to industry standard or industry averages for similar information: h. Current Utility Rates i. Current Facility Consumption and Cost

3.10. Proposal Breakdown The proposal shall be provided with the below cost breakdown: Base Bid The base bid scope of work is to be performed on the Targeted Facility List included in Attachment C as follows (Note, this attachment only covers year one of this Task Order. Option year facility lists will be provided later); 1. Facility Condition Assessment of all facilities listed in Attachment C. 2. Tier I Energy Audit for all buildings less than 1,000sq. ft.. 3. Tier II Energy Audit for all buildings between 1,000sq. ft. and 4,999sq. ft.. 4. Tier III Energy Audit for all buildings between 5,000sq. ft. and 39,999sq. ft.. 5. Tier IV Energy Audit for all buildings larger than 40,000sq. ft.. 6. All Travel Costs associated with FCAs and Energy Audits. 7. Indicate the amount of time (duration in days) required to complete this ARPA SOW.

3.11. Status Reports The Contractor shall provide to CBP a schedule for completion of each of the assigned individual property assessments, and a projected completion date for all the properties within 10 business days of the award of this contract. The first property assessment will begin within 15 business days of the award of this contract. 3.12. Monthly Reports The Contractor shall provide to Contract Coordination and Program Support Team monthly reports on the last workday of the month being reported. The report shall describe the work performed, work to be accomplished in the following period; resources utilized; funds remaining; areas of concern; updated project plan(s) and work breakdown structures. -14-

3.13. Submission of Reports Unless specified otherwise by the COTR, all reporting will be submitted to the designated managing member of this task order (as described in Task Order 1 Contract Coordination and Program Support). Chief person in charge will in turn submit all the necessary documents to COTR (see section 4.2).

3.14.

Schedule of Deliverables
Date Due to Contracting Officer's Technical Representative or Designee September 1 Monthly updates Monthly to COTR Monthly Updates Provided at the end of the whole assessment Monthly Updates Monthly Updates Monthly to COTR Within 15 days after the AOC Within 10 business days after the AOC. Within 15 days of the submission of the Contractor's final summary report for all the assessment properties. 12 business days after the completion of each individual inspection 15 business days after the completion of the final assigned property inspection. XX days of the AOC Within 10 days of the AOC

Table 1 Schedule of Deliverables and Timing

Reference

Deliverable

3.1.

3.3.

Year-End Facility Condition Assessment Report for all properties in accordance to the format required by the FRPP Report on each Facility Condition Assessment Completed on a monthly basis with results of assessment Energy Audits Tier I Energy Audit Tier II Energy Audit

3.4. 3.5. 3.6. 3.7.

Tier III Energy Audit Tier IV Energy Audit Confirm Real Property status and mission dependency for each facility condition assessment completed Key Personnel has been appointed Quality Control Program Draft, with pre-agreed templates and formatting Records/ Data-- update the CBP database

3.8.

Reassessment Inspection Reports submitted to CBP

3.8.

Submit Executive Summary to CBP

3.10. 3.11.

Contractor & CBP to Agree on Annual Facility Condition Assessment timeline and location schedule to perform work Contractor Status Report - for completion of each of the assigned individual property assessments and a projected completion date for all the properties

-15-

Reference

Deliverable

3.12.

Contractor Monthly Report

Date Due to Contracting Officer's Technical Representative or Designee Last day of the month.

4.0

GENERAL INFORMATION 4.1 Disclosure of Information 4.1.1.Any information made available to the Contractor by the government or its customers shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract. This information shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any persons except when necessary in the performance of the contract. Contractor will agree to sign and abide by non-disclosure forms and policies of CBP. 4.1.2.The Contractor assumes responsibility for the protection of the confidentiality of government records in the performance of this contract. 4.1.3.The Contractor will adhere to the requirements found in Part 24 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Protection of Privacy and Freedom of Information. 4.2 Technical Contact 4.2.1 The Customs and Border Protection technical contact person or Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will be XXXXXX. The COTR may be contacted at XXXXXXXX. 4.2.2. All contract administration matters will be handled by XXXXXXXX U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 6650 Telecom Drive, Suite 100, Indianapolis, IN 46278. E-mail address: XXXXXXXXXXXXXX. 4.3 Government Furnished Property See Attachment C: Targeted Facility List for a listing of properties to be inspected. 4.4 Contractor Furnished Items This contract calls for the Contractor to provide, but not limited to: all supervision, materials, supplies, updated drawings, supplies, equipment, and transportation necessary for the performance of the work of this contract unless otherwise specified herein. Upon the request of the COTR, the Contractor shall submit a list of all company personnel and sub-contractors to be used in the performance of this work. 4.5 Procedure for Payment To be determined by the Procurement Department prior to distribution.

-16-

Attachment A

ATTACHMENT A: Current FCA Data

-17-

Attachment B

ATTACHMENT B: The Definitions and Guidelines for Classifying Real and Personal Property

-18-

Attachment B Real Definitions and Guidance

Real Property Definitions and Guidance Prepared October 09, 2008
Term 1. Real Property Definition Real property is generally defined as land, and buildings and structures affixed to the land as improvements. CBP's definition of real property includes the intention of being permanent in its nature (such as land) or being permanently affixed to the land throughout its useful life span. Improvements to land which are permanent or intended to be permanent for its useful life, including buildings, additions, structures, and utility systems are categorized as real property. Real property also includes equipment affixed and built into the building as an integral element which supports the buildings operation (such as heating, ventilation, and cooling systems, and installed emergency power systems), but not furnishings or equipment that are intended to be mobile or portable (such as mobile generators). Federal Real Property definitions are found in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 41,102-71.20; 102-75.160; Executive Order 13327, Section 2; and the Federal Real Property Council guidance for the Federal Real Property Profile (FRPP) reporting. 2. Personal Property CBP Directive Number 5230-032 defines personal property as, "tangible and intangible property that can be physically moved from place to place."

ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE The following additional guidance is provided for certain buildings and structures not easily categorized as real or personal property. If at any time a structure is questionable as to whether it should be categorized as real or personal property, or the proper disposal method, please notify the Office of Finance, Facilities Management & Engineering, Real Property Center (RPC) and include a photograph and description of the building or of the structure.

3.

Buildings a. Trailers -Permanent Trailers are prefabricated buildings that come equipped with an axle, wheels, and tow-hitch. Because the undercarriage does not allow it to rest directly on a slab, trailers typically are leveled with blocks and may require stairs to access. Trailers may be anchored to the ground in locations with high winds or local ordinance requirements. CBP has utilized trailers as low cost additional office space and employee housing in remote locations. Examples include mobile-home type residences and construction office trailers. These are

-19-

Term

Definition typically acquired with the intention of being permanent throughout their useful life. Because of the unique nature of CBP operations, the intended permanence of these buildings, and the ongoing maintenance, repair, and alteration requirements, these trailers are categorized as real property. Notes: If a permanent trailer is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE) module. b. Trailers ­ Mobile Trailers acquired with the intent of being mobile or nonpermanent in nature, such as FEMA trailers, CONEX containers, and camper-style travel trailers are categorized as personal property. Modular buildings are constructed offsite and delivered in two or more sections. Modular buildings are typically permanent in nature and are permanently affixed to a concrete slab or other permanent foundation. Unlike trailers, modulars do not contain an axle, wheels, or tow-hitch. Modular buildings are categorized as real property. This includes Quonset huts, Butler-type buildings, and modular residences. Notes: If a modular building is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE) module. d. Storage Buildings Storage buildings vary in size, complexity, and usage. Storage buildings that are constructed as permanent buildings, may use utilities, and are not intended to be relocatable are categorized as real property. Examples include warehouses and vaults. Many storage sheds are simple, one-story, free-standing small sheds, yard barns, and mini-barns. They are typically relocatable, generally do not use utilities, and have a useful life far less than a typical permanently constructed building. These types of storage sheds are categorized as personal property.

c.

Modular Buildings

4.

Structures a. Towers

Towers are structures permanently affixed to the land and are used to support communication, surveillance, and monitoring

-20-

Term

Definition devices such as antennas, repeaters, and cameras and remote video surveillance systems (RVS). These towers are typically acquired with the intention of being permanent throughout their useful life. Towers and accompanying building or sheds housing power generating equipment (i.e. generators, solar panels, fuel cells) to support the towers are categorized as real property. Due to their specialized nature, maintenance of towers and equipment associated with the towers is the responsibility of the Office of Information and Technology (OIT). Equipment attached to towers including antennas, repeaters, RVS, and cameras are categorized as personal property. Also, communication and surveillance towers which are intended to be mobile (trailer based) are categorized as personal property. Notes: RPC recommends permanent towers remain classified as real property as CBP must account for communication towers in the OMB Federal Real Property Profile (FRPP) report. Additionally, RPC recommends that the tower and adjacent building or equipment/generator shed be captured in SAP as one record at the BU level. The multiple components may be captured separately at the RU level. Notes: If a permanent tower is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE) module. b. Fuel Tanks Fuel tanks that are an integral element of a comprehensive fuel station/island, and are permanently installed will be categorized as real property. These fuel stations/islands typically contain fire suppression equipment, and may also include a canopy, curbing, bollards, and/or multiple fuel pumps. Fuel tanks that are designed to be mobile or portable, and do not contain built-out elements or fire suppression equipment are categorized as personal property, and should be treated as such throughout the structure's lifecycle. Notes: If a permanent tank is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE)

-21-

Term

Definition module. c. Water Towers/Water Tanks A water tower/tank is a large water storage container that may or may not be elevated, and may include curbing, bollards and pumping equipment. They are permanent in nature and categorized as real property. Mobile or portable water tanks are categorized as personal property. Notes: If a permanent water tower or tank is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE) module.

5.

Other a.

Tactical Infrastructure (TI)

Tactical infrastructure with the intent of being permanent shall be classified as real property. This may include, but is not limited to permanent vehicle and pedestrian barriers, lighting, bridges, and roads. Tactical infrastructure intended to be mobile and/or nonpermanent shall be classified as personal property throughout its lifecycle. This may include, but is not limited to mobile communication towers and mobile lighting.

b. Small Arms Firing Ranges

Small Arms Firing Ranges that have been constructed to provide for firearms testing and certification are classified as real property. These may be located indoors or outdoors. Features of constructed firing ranges typically include bullet traps and backstops, target carrier systems, canopies, armories, and special HVAC systems. Generators, power generating systems, and emergency power systems that are hard-wired to a real property building or structure with the intent of being permanent, and support that building or structures infrastructure are categorized as real property. Self-contained, free-standing, portable or mobile generators that freely connect and disconnect are categorized as personal property. Notes: If a permanent generator is being disposed of with the accompanying land, it will be considered an improvement to the land and disposed of as real property using the SF-118 process through the General Services Administration (GSA). If it is being disposed of without the accompanying land, it shall be disposed of as excess property using the SF-120 process, per CFR 41, 102-75.160. RPC must be notified so the item can be removed from the SAP Real Estate (RE) module.

c.

Generators

-22-

Term

Definition Notes: FRPP Guidelines dictate that if a generator (or any other utility system) supports one building, the cost should be rolled up into the building. If the generator supports multiple buildings, it should be captured as a separate record and reported in the FRPP Report. d. Non-Intrusive Inspection (NII) Systems NII Systems including, but not limited to Radiation Portal Monitors (RPMs), License Plate Readers (LPRs), and VACIS x-ray systems are considered equipment, and therefore categorized as personal property throughout their lifecycle. This is similar to cameras and communications equipment and antennas attached to towers.

REFERENCES 6. Real property CFR 41, 102-71.20: Definitions (1) Any interest in land, together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures located thereon (including prefabricated movable structures, such as Butler-type storage warehouses and Quonset huts, and house trailers with or without undercarriages), and appurtenances thereto, under the control of any Federal agency, except-- (i) The public domain; (ii) Lands reserved or dedicated for national forest or national park purposes; (iii) Minerals in lands or portions of lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain that the Secretary of the Interior determines are suitable for disposition under the public land mining and mineral leasing laws; (iv) Lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain but not including lands or portions of lands so withdrawn or reserved that the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the Administrator of General Services, determines are not suitable for return to the public domain for disposition under the general public land laws because such lands are substantially changed in character by improvements or otherwise; and (v) Crops when designated by such agency for disposition by severance and removal from the land. (2) Improvements of any kind, structures, and fixtures under the control of any Federal agency when

-23-

Term

Definition designated by such agency for disposition without the underlying land (including such as may be located on the public domain, on lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain, on lands reserved or dedicated for national forest or national park purposes, or on lands that are not owned by the United States) excluding, however, prefabricated movable structures, such as Butler-type storage warehouses and Quonset huts, and house trailers (with or without undercarriages). Real Property Disposal CFR 41, 102-75.160 regarding real property disposals: Title 41: Public Contracts and Property Management PART 102­75--REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL Subpart B-- Utilization of Excess Real Property Designation as Personal Property § 102-75.160 Should prefabricated movable structures be designated real or personal property for disposition purposes? Prefabricated movable structures such as Butler-type storage warehouses, Quonset huts, and house trailers (with or without undercarriages) reported to GSA along with the land on which they are located may, at GSA's discretion, be designated for disposition as personal property for off-site use or as real property for disposal with the land.

7.

-24-

Attachment C

ATTACHMENT C: Targeted Facility List

-25-

ATTACHMENT F: PAST PERFORMANCE CONTRACT REFERENCE DATA Program or Task Order Title Customer Name Customer Address

Contract Points of Contact

Street City/State Zip Tel. Contractual: Name Title Organization Address Tel. Fax Email

Fax Technical: Name Title Organization Address Tel. Fax Email

Contract Type Contract Number Task Order # if Applicable Description of Services

Task Order Technical Point of Contact

Name

Program or Task Order Title Title Organization Address Tel. Fax Email Period of Performance
Project Start Date Original Completion Date Estimated/Actual Completion Date Explanation of Delay if Applicable

Contract Value

Original Value Current Value Estimated/Actual Completion Date Explanation of Cost Growth Levels achieved against subcontract plan goals (if applicable) and as percentage of contract value

Small Business Subcontracting

ATTACHMENT G: PAST PERFORMANCE RELEVANT EXPERIENCE FORM Company Name: ____________________________________ Referenced Contract: ____________________________________ Instructions: Offerors will complete the following worksheet for each contract provided as a reference. ITEM DESCRIPTION YES/NO QUANTITY Did you serve as the prime contractor (rather than a 1 subcontractor) for the referenced effort? What were the total contract dollar value and the term $________; 2 of the contract, including all option periods? _____years Did you develop integrated master program plans and 3 schedules for real property programs? Did the contract call for developing communications 4 strategies? Did you assess program compliance with Agency and 5 Federal programs and standards? Did you develop program performance baselines and 7 controls? How many major program areas were reviewed and implemented? Did you perform long term capital planning and 8 investment analysis of real property programs in accordance with OMB Capital Planning Principals? Did you develop and implemented training plans? If 9 so, how many major plans and programs? Did you develop real property space and cost 10 estimation tools and processes? If so, how many? Did you develop real property condition assessments 11 and maintenance plans? If so, how many? Did you perform assessments of facilities, to include 12 functional and operational suitability? If so, how many? Did you evaluate and make recommendations for 13 improving your client's real property data system(s)? Did you perform special studies pertaining to space 14 utilization, rent forecasting, physical security needs, and related topics? If so, how many?

ITEM

15 16 17 18

19

20 21

22

DESCRIPTION YES/NO Did you assess Legislative requirements and prepare/ assist in responding to Congressional inquiries? Did you assist the client in document management and archiving? Did you develop budget input documents, requests and supporting data? Did you manage and/or oversee the client's leases(s)? If so, how many facilities were managed? Did you develop and manage the client's repairs and alterations and operation and maintenance schedules? If so, how many facilities' schedules did you manage? Did you provide validation, valuation and data support of real property inventories? Did the contract contain performance-based measures and service-level agreements? Please respond to this question only if you served as the prime contractor for this contract. What percent % of $ of the dollar value of the total contract was proposed Planned for each category and what percent was actually awarded to subcontractors in each category? a. Small Business b. Small Disadvantages Business c. Women-owned Small Business d. HUBZone Small Business e. Service-disabled Veteran-owned Small Business f. 8(a) Business

QUANTITY

% of $ Actually Awarded


Base Period (12 Months)
Task 1
Task 2
Task 3
Total Price
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
Total Labor
Total Travel
Total Task Price
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
Total Labor
Total Travel
Total Task Price
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
Total Labor
Total Travel
Total Task Price
# Position Title Hourly Rate Years of Experience Highest Degree Position Description / Job Definition
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
26.0
27.0
28.0
29.0
30.0
31.0
32.0
33.0
34.0
35.0
36.0
37.0
38.0
39.0
40.0

Base Period (12 Months)
Task 1 1940000.0
Task 2 4540000.0
Task 3 2400000.0
Total Price 8880000.0
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0 Manager III 170.0 2000.0 340000.0
2.0 Engineer 140.0 2000.0 280000.0
3.0 Architech 140.0 2000.0 280000.0
4.0 Risk Manager 130.0 2000.0 260000.0
5.0 Process Analyst 110.0 2000.0 220000.0
6.0 Program Analyst 100.0 2000.0 200000.0
7.0 Staff (3) 60.0 6000.0 360000.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
Total Labor 18000.0 1940000.0
Total Travel
Total Task Price 1940000.0
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0 Manager II 150.0 2000.0 300000.0
2.0 Strategic Assessment Specialist (8) 120.0 16000.0 1920000.0
3.0 Subcontractor 1 Experts (4) 100.0 8000.0 800000.0
4.0 Subcontractor 2 Experts (4) 150.0 8000.0 1200000.0
5.0 Program Analyst 100.0 2000.0 200000.0
6.0 Staff 60.0 2000.0 120000.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
Total Labor 38000.0 4540000.0
Total Travel
Total Task Price 4540000.0
Base Period (12 Months)
# Position Title Hourly Rate Hours Amount
1.0 Manager II 150.0 2000.0 300000.0
2.0 Facilities Assessment Specialists (4) 110.0 8000.0 880000.0
3.0 Subcontractor 1 Workers (3) 100.0 6000.0 600000.0
4.0 Subcontractor 2 Workers (2) 75.0 4000.0 300000.0
5.0 Program Analyst 100.0 2000.0 200000.0
6.0 Staff 60.0 2000.0 120000.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
12.0
13.0
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
Total Labor 24000.0 2400000.0
Total Travel
Total Task Price 2400000.0
# Position Title Hourly Rate Years of Experience Highest Degree Position Description / Job Definition
1.0 Manager III 150.0 20.0 MBA Narrative
2.0 Engineer 140.0 15.0 BS
Certification Narrative
3.0 Architech 140.0 15.0 BS
Certification Narrative
4.0 Risk Manager 130.0 15.0 Masters Narrative
5.0 Process Analyst 110.0 10.0 BS Narrative
6.0 Program Analyst 100.0 8.0 BS Narrative
7.0 Staff (3) 60.0 3.0 Associate Narrative
8.0 Manager II 150.0 15.0 12.0 Narrative
9.0 Strategic Assessment Specialist 120.0 15.0 10.0 Narrative
10.0 Subcontractor 1 Expert 150.0 20.0 PHD Narrative
11.0 Subcontractor 2 Expert 75.0 10.0 BS Narrative
12.0 Other contemplated but not yet proposed labor categories 100.0 Years Ed Narrative
13.0 Other contemplated but not yet proposed labor categories 95.0 Years Ed Narrative
14.0 Other contemplated but not yet proposed labor categories 90.0 Years Ed Narrative
15.0 Other contemplated but not yet proposed labor categories 85.0 Years Ed Narrative
16.0 Other contemplated but not yet proposed labor categories 80.0 Years Ed Narrative
17.0
18.0
19.0
20.0
21.0
22.0
23.0
24.0
25.0
26.0
27.0
28.0
29.0
30.0
31.0
32.0
33.0
34.0
35.0
36.0
37.0
38.0
39.0
