REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL NO. 114671
Offer Due: February 2, 2010 Delivery Required Date: June 30, 2010
CONTRACT REPRESENTATIVE Susan Turner MSIN: K9-15 Battelle Boulevard P.O. Box 999 RICHLAND, MD 99352-0999 Tel: 509/375-3810 Fax: 509/375-3818 E-mail: Susan.Turner@pnl.gov SHIP TO: PO #TBD Battelle for US DOE University of Maryland Computer and Space Sciences Bldg 224 Room 1340 College Park, MD 20742 United States

THE REQUIREMENTS IDENTIFIED HEREIN WILL BE FUNDED BY THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009. (RECOVERY ACT) This is a request for proposal for Scientific Data Storage System. Proposals should be initially submitted on the most favorable price and technical terms which can be offered because of the possibility that award will be made without discussion of proposal received. Submit all offers on the form below showing unit and total prices for meeting the stated required delivery date. If unable to meet stated date, offer best delivery date. LINE ITEMS
Line Qty U/M Description Unit Price Total Price

1 Opt1 Opt2 Opt3

1 1 1 TBD

EA EA EA 0.1 PetaBytes

Scientific Data Storage System in accordance with specifications dated December 15, 2009 *Budget Information Only ­ Hardware/Software Maintenance ­ Year 4 *Budget Information Only ­ Hardware/Software Maintenance ­ Year 5 *Option Pricing for additional units of 0.1 Peta-Bytes of Usable Storage (reference Configuration Section of the Specifications)

-

-

*Items will not be part of the evaluated price. Items are need for budgetary information only.

BATTELLE CONTRACTS REPRESENTATIVE The Battelle Contracts Representative, Susan Turner, is the sole point of contact for any communications or questions regarding this acquisition. PRICING INFORMATION [ ] A. Prices proposed herein are substantiated with enclosed copy of published price lists and/or catalog price sheets including conditions of any available discounts and are not more than those offered our most favored purchasers for similar quantities under like conditions. [ ] B. Published price list and/or catalog price sheets are not available. The prices proposed herein are not more than those offered our most favored purchasers including the United States Government for similar quantities under like conditions. If checked, include
Page 1 of 7

copies of recent invoices, sales slips, etc., for similar quantities of like material or services to at least two (2) other firms for verification. Signed__________________________________________________ Date____________________________________________________ SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS Proposals should be prepared simply and economically, and provide a straightforward, concise delineation of the information required to be furnished. Emphasis should be on completeness and clarity. Elaborate brochures or other presentations are neither required nor desired. Each proposal submitted should include: 1. Completed Pricing Proposal 2. Per Specifications Section II, H. Experience Supporting Large Configurations, provide Up to 3 customer references for sites with existing installations of 1+ petabytes and more than 50 million files 3. Completed Requirements Checklist, per Specifications Section III 4. A statement of acceptance of the conditions referenced in the General Provisions below. 5. Completed Commercial Representations and Certifications found at http://www.pnl.gov/contracts/documents/forms/representations_certifications_ci.pdf The NAICS code for representation and certifications entitled `Small Business Program Representation" part A.1. is 443120 The size standard for representation and certifications entitled `Small Business Program Representation" Part A.1 is $9,000,000

Proposals are preferred to be electronically submitted to Susan.Turner@pnl.gov. Transmittals containing proposals should include "Proposal to RFP No. 114671" in the subject line. Proposals must be received by Battelle no later than February 2, 2010. Proposals may also be submitted via facsimile at the number above or by hard copy the address above. Correspondence must include "Proposal to RFP No. 114671." Proposals submitted by overnight mail must be mailed to: Battelle, Pacific Northwest Division 6th Street Warehouse 790 6th Street ATTN: Susan Turner, K9-15 Richland, WA 99354 GENERAL PROVISIONS Each proposal submitted shall include a statement of acceptance of the conditions referenced below. The conditions may be viewed as at http://www.pnl.gov/contracts/documents/generalprovisions.asp:
-

-

Fixed Price General Provisions for Commercial Items ­ Supplies/Services, titled A-409.2-C1 General Provisions Supplement - American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 titled FORM A-409-ARRA-Suppl. (May 8, 2009). (See supplement at the link listed below.) 

RECOVERY ACT REQUIREMENTS The following Recovery Act forms will be applicable to the successful offeror and may be viewed at http://www.pnl.gov/contracts/documents/ Reporting Requirements (Form A-409-ARRA-Reporting - R1) Monthly Contract Cost-to-Date Estimate (Form A-409-ARRA-Accrual - R1)

EXPLANATION TO PROSPECTIVE OFFERORS Any prospective offeror desiring an explanation or interpretation of the RFP must request it in writing soon enough to allow a reply to reach all prospective offerors before the submission of their offers. Oral
Page 2 of 7

explanations or instruction given before the award of the contract will not be binding. Any information given to a prospective offeror concerning the RFP will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors as an amendment of the solicitation, if that information is necessary in submitting offers or if the lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offeror. PROPOSAL DUE DATE AND VALIDITY PERIOD Proposals shall be delivered to Battelle on or before the proposal due date and shall be valid for a minimum of 90 days. AMENDMENTS TO RFP If this RFP is amended, all provisions which are not modified remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment of this RFP (a) by signing and returning the form provided for such purpose; (b) by stating in its proposal that the amendment (date and number) was received and considered in formulating the proposal; or (c) by letter or E-mail. Battelle must receive the acknowledgement by the time specified for receipt of proposals. SUBMISSION, MODIFICATION, REVISION, AND WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSALS (CL 605, OCT
2007)

1. Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modifications or revisions, so as to reach the Battelle office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:00 p.m., local time, for the designated Battelle office on the date that proposal or revision is due. 2. Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Battelle office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Battelle Contracts Representative determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-A. If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Battelle, Pacific Northwest Division, infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals; or B. There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Battelle site designated for receipt of offers and was under Battelle's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or C. It is the only proposal received. 3. However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Battelle, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. A. Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Battelle site includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Battelle personnel. B. If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Battelle processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Battelle requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Battelle processes resume. C. Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award. D. Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items. E. Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English and in U.S. dollars unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation.
Page 3 of 7

F. Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award. G. Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Battelle Contracts Representative. H. Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Battelle Contracts Representative 4. Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror). 5. Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose, or used by Battelle except for evaluation purposes, shall-A. Mark the title page with the following legend: This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside Battelle and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed--in whole or in part--for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror as a result of--or in connection with--the submission of this data, Battelle shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit Battelle's right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained in sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and B. Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal. TREATMENT OF PROPOSAL DATA A. Although not specifically requested by the RFP, the proposal may include technical data and other data, including trade secrets and/or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, which the Offeror does not want disclosed to the public or used by PNNL or the Government for any purpose other than proposal evaluation. To protect such data, the Offeror will specifically identify each page including each line or paragraph thereof containing the data to be protected and mark the cover sheet of the proposal with the following notice: NOTICE The data contained in pages _____ of this proposal have been submitted in confidence and contain trade secrets and/or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, and such data shall be used or disclosed only for evaluation purposes. PNNL and the Government shall have the right to use or disclose the data herein to the extent provided in the contract. This restriction does not limit PNNL's and the Government's right to use or disclose data obtained without restriction from any source, including the Offeror. Reference to this notice on the cover sheet should be placed on each page to which the notice applies. PNNL assumes no liability for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose such data for any purpose. B. Should a contract be awarded based on a proposal, it is policy, in consideration of the award, to obtain unlimited rights for the Government in technical data contained in the proposal unless the prospective contractor marks those portions of the technical information that he asserts as "proprietary data," or specifies those portions of such technical data that are not directly related to or will not be utilized in the work to be funded under this subcontract. "Proprietary data" are defined as technical data which embody trade secrets developed at private expense, such as design procedures or techniques, chemical composition of materials, or manufacturing methods, processes, or treatments, including minor modifications thereof, provided that such data: (1) are not generally known or available from other
Page 4 of 7

sources without obligation concerning their confidentiality; (2) have not been made available by the owner to others without obligation concerning their confidentiality; and (3) are not already available to the Government without obligation concerning their confidentiality. An Offeror who receives a contract award shall mark the data identified as proprietary by specifying the appropriate proposal page number to be inserted in the Rights to Proposal Data clause below. Subject to the concurrence of PNNL, information unrelated to the subject may be deleted from the proposal by the Offeror. The responsibility, however, of identifying technical data as proprietary or deleting it as unrelated rests with the Offeror. C. The following clause shall be included in any contract based on a proposal. This clause is intended to apply only to technical data and not to other data, such as privileged or confidential commercial or financial information RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA Except for technical data contained on pages of the contractor's proposal dated , which are asserted by the Contractor as being proprietary data, it is agreed that as a condition of the award of this contract, notwithstanding the provisions of any notice appearing on the proposal, the Government shall have the right to use, duplicate, and disclose and have others do so for any purpose whatsoever, the technical data contained in the proposal upon which this contract is based. ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (CL 398 - JUL 1995) A. Definitions "Kickback," as used in this clause, means any money, fee, commission, credit, gift, gratuity, thing of value, or compensation of any kind which is provided, directly or indirectly, to Battelle, Battelle employees, subcontractor, or subcontractor employees for the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favorable treatment in connection with a prime contract or in connection with a subcontract relating to a prime contract. "Person," as used in this clause, means a corporation, partnership, business association of any kind, trust, joint-stock company, or individual. "Prime contract," as used in this clause, means a contract or contractual action entered into by Battelle for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind. "Prime Contractor," as used in this clause, means a person who has entered into a prime contract with Battelle. "Prime Contractor employee," as used in this clause, means any officer, partner, employee, or agent of a prime Contractor. "Subcontract," as used in this clause, means a contract or contractual action entered into by Battelle or a subcontractor for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind under a prime contract. "Subcontractor," as used in this clause, (1) means any person, other than Battelle, who offers to furnish or furnishes any supplies, materials, equipment, or services of any kind under a prime contract or a subcontract entered into in connection with such prime contract, and (2) includes any person who offers to furnish or furnishes general supplies to Battelle or a higher tier subcontractor. "Subcontractor employee," as used in this clause, means any officer, partner, employee, or agent of a subcontractor. B. The Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (41 U.S.C. 51-58) (the Act), prohibits any person from 1. Providing or attempting to provide or offering to provide any kickback; 2. Soliciting, accepting, or attempting to accept any kickback; or 3. Including, directly or indirectly, the amount of any kickback in the contract price charged by a prime contractor to the United States or in the contract price charged by a subcontractor to a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor.
Page 5 of 7

C. 1. When the Contractor has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation described in paragraph B of this clause may have occurred, the Contractor shall promptly report to the Battelle Contracts Representative in writing the possible violation. Such reports shall be made to the inspector general of Battelle, and Battelle shall forward such reports to DOE, or the Department of Justice. 2. The Contractor shall cooperate fully with any Federal agency investigating a possible violation described in paragraph B of this clause. 3. The Battelle Contracts Representative may (i) offset the amount of kickback against any monies owed by Battelle under the prime contract and/or (ii) direct that the prime Contractor withhold from sums owed a subcontractor under the prime contract, the amount of the kickback. The Battelle Contracts Representative may order that monies withheld under subdivision C.3.(ii) of this clause be paid over to DOE unless Battelle has already offset those monies under subdivision C.3.(i) of this clause. In either case, the Prime Contractor shall notify the Battelle Contracts Representative when the monies are withheld. 4. The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this subparagraph C.4, in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed $100,000. BID AND PROPOSAL COSTS Battelle is not obligated to pay any cost incurred in the preparation and submission of a proposal, nor to enter into a contract or any other arrangement with any Offeror. ALTERNATE PROPOSALS Battelle is inviting proposals in full accordance with the attached specifications or description. In the event that offeror is unable to submit a proposal responsive to this requirement and offeror believes they have an item(s) which may otherwise be acceptable, offerors are invited to submit a proposal for Battelle's consideration, stating item by item each incidence of noncompliance. Offerors are hereby advised that Battelle shall not be obligated to evaluate this proposal, but if acceptable, this Solicitation will either be canceled and reissued or revised to incorporate any appropriate changes. In the event offeror chooses not to submit a proposal, a short note of explanation would be appreciated. TYPE OF CONTRACT Battelle contemplates awarding a fixed price contract for this request. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS The enclosed Technical Specification dated December 15, 2009 outlines the requirements for this solicitation. INSURANCE /PRELIMINARY HAZARDS ASSESSMENT (PHA) As required in the referenced general provisions the Contractor must provide a valid insurance certificate and completed PHA prior to any work performed on-site. PROMPT PAYMENT DISCOUNTS In addition to normal payment terms, please advise amount and details of other cash discounts or savings available to Battelle for more expeditious or favorable methods of payment or for other reasons. BRAND NAME OR EQUAL (CL 606 - JAN 1986) The use of brand names in this Solicitation is intended to be descriptive and to indicate the quality and characteristics of products that will be satisfactory. If the offeror proposes to furnish an equal product, the brand name of such product shall be clearly identified in the offer. The determination as to equality of the product offered shall be the responsibility of Battelle based on information furnished by the offeror. To ensure that sufficient information is available for evaluation, the offeror shall furnish as a part of its offer all descriptive material (such as cuts, illustrations, drawings, or other information) necessary for Battelle to 1) determine whether the product offered meets the essential characteristics of this Solicitation and 2) establish what Battelle would be binding itself to purchase. NOTE 1: Offers shall be considered as offering the brand name product referenced in this Solicitation unless offeror clearly indicates that it is offering an equal product.

Page 6 of 7

NOTE 2: If offeror proposes to modify a product to make it conform to the essential characteristics of this Solicitation it shall 1) include in its offer a clear description of such proposed modifications and 2) clearly mark any descriptive material to show the proposed modifications. AUTHORIZED NEGOTIATORS If a negotiation meeting is held, the Offeror shall designate as its negotiator a person who is authorized to make legally binding commitments without further review or approval. If, for any reason, it is impractical for the Offeror to be represented at a negotiation meeting by other than a person fully authorized to act in its behalf, Battelle shall be notified sufficiently in advance to allow a decision to be made whether the negotiations should proceed as scheduled or be postponed. The Offeror's notice, if originally given orally, shall be confirmed in writing. CONTRACT AWARD a) Battelle may evaluate proposals received in response to this solicitation without discussion. Contract award, if any, will be made to the responsive, responsible offeror whose evaluated proposal will be most advantageous to Battelle, considering only price and any price-related factors specified elsewhere in the solicitation, or (b) Battelle may reject any or all proposals, and waive informalities or minor irregularities in proposals received, or (c) Battelle may accept any item or combination of items, unless doing so is precluded by a restrictive limitation in the solicitation or the proposal, or (d) Battelle may reject a proposal as non-responsive if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or sub-line items. A proposal is materially unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly less than prices for some items and prices which are significantly overstated in relation to prices for other items, and if there is a reasonable doubt that the proposal will result in the lowest overall price to Battelle even though it may be the low evaluated proposal, or if it is so unbalanced as to be tantamount to allowing an advance payment. (e) Funding is obligated for this action. However, contract award is subject to Availability of Funds at the time of award. We offer to sell the above items (or alternate items as specified) at the prices indicated, on the terms and conditions stated and the referenced general provisions which will be a part of any resulting order. F.O.B. DESTINATION Delivery Date at F.O.B. Point June 30, 2010 Terms of Payment PNNL standard payment terms are N30 payment terms, if prompt payment discounts are available, please state

Firm Name Dimensions Telephone No.

Offer Date Number of Boxes Fax No.

Weight Origin Zip Code Email Address

Recommended Carrier

Name/Title

Signature

Page 7 of 7

Tel: (509) 375-3810 Fax: (509) 375-3818 Susan.turner@pnl.gov

December 23, 2009

Dear Prospective Offeror: RECOVERY ACT, REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) NO. 114671 SCIENTIFIC DATA STORAGE SYSTEM

The U. S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Integrated Assessment Program is soliciting offers for a scientific data storage system. Battelle Memorial Institute's Pacific Northwest Division operates the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory for DOE and any resultant agreement will be between Battelle and the selected contractor. Information regarding the goods and services required and the instructions for preparation and submission of proposals are provided in the attached RFP. Battelle requests the submission of your best pricing proposal in support of the Technical Specifications and other requirements as detailed in this RFP. Any requests for clarification should be submitted by e-mail to the undersigned at susan.turner@pnl.gov or by telephone at (509) 375-3810. Sincerely,

Susan M. Turner Division Contracts Manager

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671

I.

Background
A. Integrated Assessment Storage Cluster

The Integrated Assessment program requires high capacity, expandable, high performance mass storage based upon the Lustre file system. This storage cluster will be a companion to a compute cluster based on ~250+ "Nehalem" nodes with QDR Infiniband. QDR Infiniband will connect the two clusters.

B.

Configuration Overview

Storage system to store user data, input data sets, and computational output files. System should contain at a minimum 1.1 Peta-bytes of usable storage to be split across two file systems. The file system shall provide parallel access to data, in order to provide over 20 Gigabytes/second of read and write bandwidth. The System shall provide a level of data redundancy, using RAID or other technology and provide read verification of data integrity. System shall provide connectivity into the main cluster Infiniband QDR interconnect. System shall support mounting of the file systems on Linux 2.6.X under Redhat 5.X .

C.

Workload

Data will be stored by external users and created and used by the compute cluster. The workload will consist initially of a large data dump of existing databases, following this data will be read during computational jobs, with output being written back into the file system. As new data sets become available, some data sets will be reformatted into new file formats or data structures.

II.

Technical Requirements
A. Required Features

Contractor shall provide a complete disk based storage solution consisting of:  Disk storage hardware.  Lustre filesystem software  Any necessary network cards and/or interconnect cards between storage system and compute cluster interconnect. It is assumed that up to 48 QDR ports will be available on the compute cluster Infiniband switch. Network and Interconnect cables will be provided for connectivity to the main cluster. (Infiniband: QSFP connectors, Ethernet: RJ45 connectors)  Any necessary network hardware needed to connect the storage system management interfaces to the compute clusters 1Gig Ethernet network. A single Gigabit Ethernet connection to the campus network is preferred.  All necessary servers to operate the system and provide services to RHEL 5.

B.

Software Features
Page | 1

Contractor shall provide 2 Lustre filesystems with the following capabilities:

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671      Data must be presented to clients as a POSIX style filesystem. Access to the filesystem by Linux systems must be supported. The compute cluster connected directly to the interconnect will be running Redhat 5 A Kerberos client authentication shall be used on any servers that run a flavor of linux, or management systems that support it. Kerberos Servers will be provided by campus infrastructure. Must be able to support 400 internal clients, connected to the Compute Infiniband Interconnect. Management of the entire storage system must be available remotely over the management network by a Linux based remote workstation.

C.

Capacity & Data Storage Features

Contractor shall provide a minimum of 1.1 petabytes of usable storage split between one disk storage filesystem for user files and one disk storage area for scientific data sets. Storage capacities shall be expressed in terms of powers of ten (e.g., 1 Terabyte = 1012 bytes, not 10244 bytes) and in usable, native space.  Must have 1.1 petabytes usable space after all RAID and metadata overheads are accounted for.  Must support over 50 million files.  Must be expandable in approximately 100 terabyte increments.  Data on disk must stay consistent and available in the event of any (2) disks failing within any single storage "volume."  Redundant power supplies of metadata server and object storage server.  System shall be configured so that if a meta data server or object storage server fails, the file system will be down for less than 1 hour while the server either rebuilds or fails over to a hot/warm spare.

D.

Performance, Connectivity Features

The solution must have the following characteristics:  Infiniband QDR interconnect connectivity to the compute cluster.  Sustain 500 megabytes per second read/write speeds from the storage system as measured from a single filesystem client over the Infiniband Interconnect  Sustain 20 gigabytes per second read/write speeds from the storage system as measured from the compute cluster over the Infiniband QDR interconnect  Sustain a metadata operation rate of 6000 operations per second. Required Metadata operations are the POSIX system calls open, stat, mkdir, access, link, close, and readdir.

E.
 

Reliability, Availability and Disaster Recovery Features

The system must be highly reliable; 95% or better uptime is required for this system. Must be compatible with, and support incremental backups, daily backups for user data, and weekly for scientific data to the existing onsite TSM backup system. Page | 2

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671  The storage must prevent silent corruption of data by providing read verification and reconstruction of corrupted data to provide continuous data integrity. File system will remain consistent and available in the event of a single meta data server failure or object storage server failure

F.

Delivery, Installation, Training & Support

Contractor shall provide the following:  24 x 7 x 365 hardware and software support with next day UM campus on-site repair for 3 years  The complete solution must be delivered, installed and tested on site.  On-site training for UMD/PNNL staff in the system's operation and basic troubleshooting.  Custom Linux Kernel software support for new kernels as needed to support new versions of Redhat as it becomes available.

G. H.

Power Constraints Experience Supporting Large Configurations

Maximum power draw will be limited to 16KVA per rack.

Contractor shall have experience with the proposed archive solution in a configuration consisting of a minimum 1.5 petabytes and 50 million files. Contractor must provide:  Up to 3 customer references for sites with existing installations of 1+ petabytes and more than 50 million files  Explanations in the checklist showing how they meet the technical requirements.

Page | 3

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671

III. Requirements Checklist
Fill in the checklist in its entirety. Answer "yes" or "no" to each requirement. Provide supporting detail in every appropriate space. Incomplete checklists will cause a proposal to be rejected as unresponsive.

1

Requirement 1.1 petabytes of storage in two name spaces, presented as POSIX filesystems (section II.C.) Dual namespaces presented as a POSIX filesystem (Section (II.B.)

Requirement Explain how your proposal meets the Satisfied? requirement

2

3

20 Gigabytes per second read & write rates to computer cluster.(Section II.D.) 500 megabyte per second read & write rates to single client(Section II.D.) Metadata Operation rate of 6000 per second(Section II.D.)

4

5

Page | 4

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671 6 Prevention of silent corruption of data on disk (Section II.C.)

7

Redundant Power Supplies in MDS and OSS servers (Section II.C)

8

1 Hour Lustre Server downtime(Section II.C)

Experience implementing and supporting system(s) configured with 1.5+ petabytes & 50+ million files. Include up to 3 customer site references. (Section II.H.) 10 Kerberos Clients for Linux Systems and Management that Supports (Section II.B.) 11 Management of Storage System Remotely on Linux(Section II.B.)

9

Page | 5

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671 12 Infiniband QDR connection.(Section II.D)

Page | 6

Specifications dated 12/15/09 RFP No. 114671

IV. Acceptance Testing Criteria
Acceptance testing will be performed as follows: 1. Physical verification of equipment ordered. a. Verify quantities & specifications match invoice. b. Verify equipment is of high quality: Build tolerances reasonable, hot swappable parts slide in and out easily, etc. 2. Bring system online. a. Ensure boot up process is reasonably smooth. b. Verify usable space matches invoice. 3. Mount filesystems on Linux based compute cluster nodes. 4. Performance & data integrity testing. a. Copy several terabytes worth of data into the disk systems and verify. b. Verify data integrity via md5sum. c. Verify transfer rates. i. Single Node using fio: 1. fio --name=speed --rw=read --bs=1m --size=64g -directory <path> 2. fio --name=speed --rw=write --bs=1m --size=64g -directory <path> ii. Full System using IOR the gigabytes per job(-b 96g) can be adjusted to use 2 times system memory divided by processors per job. 1. IOR -a POSIX -F -b 96g -t 4m -k -e ­o <directory> d. Verify Metadata operation rates i. Use IOZONE tool: fileop -l 8 -u 32 -e -s 4096

Page | 7

