NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE

	REQUEST FOR QUOTATIONS (RFQ)  NO.  NIHLM2012284/ RLS



(Dated: 01/11/12) 



National Institutes of Health (NIH) 

National Library of Medicine Internet Monitoring Services



INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO QUOTERS



A.  GENERAL INFORMATION



PURPOSE

The Internet and World Wide Web (WWW or web) play a critical role in dissemination of NLM information services.  Availability of, and access to the NLM databases via the Internet and Internet 2 is critical for the NLM mission.  These factors combined require the need for a comprehensive and dynamic NLM web monitoring process.  The immediate requirements of the NLM Internet Monitoring Services include: (a) taking measurements of customer perception and use of NLM web sites, as well as (b) monitoring of the quality and availability of Internet connections by which users access NLM information services.  



The contractor shall support NLM in the above efforts.  This is a purchase order request for a commercial service to provide NLM with monitoring of its selected web sites from various locations domestically and internationally and from various network providers. This information will be used to help NLM monitor the performance of its information services from an end user perspective, and will also be used to alert NLM technical staff when performance or availability of the services fall below established thresholds of performance. 



The requirements are described in the attached Statement of Work.



BACKGROUND

See attached Statement of Work.



 METHOD OF ACQUISITION 

The Government intends to acquire the necessary services by awarding a purchase order.



NUMBER OF AWARDS

It is anticipated that one (1) award will be made from this solicitation.  



DATE OF AWARD

It is anticipated that the award will be made on or about March 1, 2012.  Award will be subject to availability of funds.





PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

It is anticipated that the award from this solicitation will be for a Base Period of 12 months from March 1, 2012 – February 28, 2013, with four successive 12-month Option Periods.



COMMITMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS 

The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed acquisition.  Any other commitment, either explicit or implied, is invalid.



COMMUNICATIONS PRIOR TO AWARD 

Quoters shall direct all communications to the attention of:



Ryan Singletary

Contract Specialist

National Library of Medicine

6707 Democracy Blvd., Ste. 105

MSC 5488

Bethesda, Maryland 20892-5488

Email address:





Communications with other officials may compromise the competitiveness of this acquisition and result in cancellation of the requirement.



PREPARATION COSTS

This RFQ does not commit the Government to pay for the preparation and submission of a quotation. 



B.  GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS



INSTRUCTIONS TO VENDORS



	(a)	Definitions. As used in this provision– 



		Discussions are negotiations that occur that may, at the Contracting 			Officer's discretion, result in the quoter being allowed to revise its 				quotation.



		In writing or written means any worded or numbered expression which 			can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes 				electronically transmitted and stored information.



		Quotation modification is a change made to a quotation before the 				solicitation's closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, 			or made to correct a mistake at any time before award.



		Quotation revision is a change to a quotation made after the solicitation 			closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer as the 		result of negotiations.



		Time, if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, 			unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 			holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal 			holiday, then the period shall include the next working day.



	(b)	Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and 			conditions that are not amended remain unchanged.  Quoters shall 				acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and 			time specified in the amendment(s).



	(c)	Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of quotations. (1) 			Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are 				permitted in the solicitation, quotations and modifications to quotations 			shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages (i) 			addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and (ii) showing the 			time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name 			and address of the quoter.  Quoters using commercial carriers should 			ensure that the quotation is marked on the outermost wrapper with the 			information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision.



		(1) 	The first page of the quotation must show



			(i)	The solicitation number;

			(ii)	The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of 				the quoter (and electronic address if available);

 			(iii)	A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all 					terms, conditions, and provisions included in the 						solicitation and agreement to furnish any or all items upon 					which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item;

			(iv)	Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and 					electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to 					negotiate on the quoter's behalf with the Government in 					connection with this solicitation; and

			(v)	Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the 					quotation. Quotations signed by an agent shall be 						accompanied by evidence of that agent's authority, unless 					that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing 					office.



		(2)	Late quotations and revisions. (i) Any quotation received at the 				office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified 				for receipt of quotes will not be considered unless it is received 				before award is made and



				(A)	It was sent by registered or certified mail not later 						than the fifth calendar day before the date specified 						for receipt of quotations (e.g., a quotation submitted 					in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of 						offers by the 20th of the month must have been 						mailed by the 15th);



				(B)	It was sent by mail (or telegram or facsimile, if 						authorized) or handcarried (including delivery by a 					commercial carrier) if it is determined by the 						Government that the late receipt was due primarily 						to Government mishandling after receipt at the 						Government installation;



				(C)	It was sent by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail 						Next Day ServicePost Office to Addressee, not 						later than 5:00 p.m. at the place of mailing two 						working days prior to the date specified for receipt 						of quotations. The term ``working days'' excludes 						weekends and U.S. Federal holidays; 



				(D)	It was transmitted through an electronic commerce 						method authorized by the solicitation and was 						received at the initial point of entry to the 							Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. 						one working day prior to the date specified for 						receipt of quotations; or



				(E)	There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was 						received at  the activity designated for receipt of 						quotations and was under the Government's control 						prior to the time set for receipt of quotations, and 						the Contracting Officer determines that accepting 						the late quotation would not unduly delay the 						procurement; or



				(F)	It is the only quotation received.



			(ii)	Any modification or revision of a quotation or response to 					request for information, including any final quotation 					revision, is subject to the same conditions as in 						subparagraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (c)(3)(i)(E) of this 					provision.



			(iii)	The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of 					mailing of a late quotation or modification or revision sent 					either by registered or certified mail is the U.S. or Canadian 				Postal Service postmark both on the envelope or wrapper 					and on the original receipt from the U.S. or Canadian Postal 				Service.  Both postmarks must show a legible date or the 					quotation, response to a request for information, or 						modification or revision shall be processed as if mailed 					late. ``Postmark'' means a printed, stamped, or otherwise 					placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine 					impression) that is readily identifiable without further 					action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of 				the U.S. or Canadian Postal Service on the date of mailing.  				Therefore, quoters or respondents should request the postal 					clerk to place a legible hand cancellation bull's eye 						postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper.



			(iv)	Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the 					Government installation includes the time/date stamp of 					that installation on the quotation wrapper, other 						documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the 						installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government 					personnel.



			(v)	The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of 					mailing of a late quotation, modification or revision, or 					withdrawal sent by Express Mail Next Day ServicePost 					Office to Addressee is the date entered by the post office 					receiving clerk on the ``Express Mail Next Day 						ServicePost Office to Addressee'' label and the postmark 					on both the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt 					from the U.S. Postal Service. ``Postmark'' has the same 					meaning as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this 						provision, excluding postmarks of the Canadian Postal 					Service.  Therefore, quoters or respondents should request 					the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation bull's 					eye postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or 					wrapper. 



			(vi)	Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this provision, a late 				modification or revision of an otherwise successful 						quotation that makes its terms more favorable to the 					Government will be considered at any time it is received 					and may be accepted.



			(vii) 	Quotations may be withdrawn by written notice or telegram 				(including mailgram) received at any time before award. If 					the solicitation authorizes facsimile quotations, quotations 					may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before 				award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision 					entitled "Facsimile Proposals."  Quotations may be 						withdrawn in person by a quoter or an authorized 						representative, if the representative's identity is made 					known and the representative signs a receipt for the 						quotation before award.



			(viii)	If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal 					Government processes so that quotations cannot be 						received at the office designated for receipt of quotations 					by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent 					Government requirements preclude amendment of the 					solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing 					date, the time specified for receipt of quotations will be 					deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in 					the solicitation on the first work day on which normal 					Government processes resume. If no time is specified in the 				solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for 					the designated Government office.



		(3)	Quotations submitted must be on an all-or-none basis, e.g., 					quotations that propose to provide any single item or combination 				of several items shall be determined to be nonresponsive.



		(4)	Quotations submitted in response to this solicitation shall be in 				English and in U.S. dollars.



		(5)	Quoters may submit modifications to their quotations at any time 				before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit 				modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake 			at any time before award.



		(6)	Quoters may submit revised quotations only if requested or 					allowed by the Contracting Officer.



		(7)	Quotations may be withdrawn at any time before award. 					Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the 					Contracting Officer.



	(d)	Quotation expiration date. Quotations in response to this solicitation will 			be valid for a period of 60 calendar days.



	(e)	Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Quoters that include in their 			quotations data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any 			purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, 			shall



		(1)	Mark the title page with the following legend: This quotation 				includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government 				and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosedin whole or in 				partfor any purpose other than to evaluate this quotation.  If, 				however, a purchase order is awarded to this quoter as a result 				ofor in connection with the submission of this data, the 					Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the 				data to the extent provided in the resulting purchase order.  This 				restriction does not limit the Government's right to use information 			contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without 				restriction.  The data subject to this restriction are contained in 				sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and



		(2)	Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following 				legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject 				to the restriction on the title page of this quotation.



(f)	Purchase order award.  (1) The Government intends to award a purchase order to 		the responsible quoter whose quotation represents the best value after an 	evaluation is conducted in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the 	solicitation. 



	(2)	The Government may reject any or all quotations if such action is in the 			Government's interest.



	(3)	The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in 			quotations received.



(4)	The Government shall evaluate quotations and may award a purchase order without discussions with quoters (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)).  Therefore, the quoter's initial quotation should contain the quoter's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint.  The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary.



	(5)	The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a 			quantity less than the quantity quoted, at the unit cost or prices quoted, 			unless the quoter specifies otherwise in the quotation.



	(6)	Exchanges with quoters after receipt of a quotation do not constitute a 			rejection or counteroffer by the Government.



	(7)	The Government may determine that a quotation is unacceptable if the 			prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or subline 			items.  Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total 				evaluated price, the price of one or more line items is significantly 				overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price 			analysis techniques.  A quotation may be rejected if the Contracting 			Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to 			the Government.



POTENTIAL AWARD WITHOUT DISCUSSIONS

The Government reserves the right to award a purchase order without discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that the initial offer is fair and reasonable and that discussions are not necessary.



ORDERING TERMS AND CONDITIONS

The quoter must specify the unit price for each Item Number quoted in response to this solicitation.



Prices quoted shall be fixed unit prices (per labor hour) per labor category.



The quoter must indicate the Quantity, Item, and Trade Discounts being quoted for each line item.



The quoter must indicate a period of delivery, citing the number of days after receipt of a purchase order document in which delivery will be performed.



PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Any purchase order awarded as a result of this solicitation shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the federal government.



PRIVACY ACT

The Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579) requires that a Federal agency advise each individual whom it asks to supply information, the authority which authorizes the solicitation, whether disclosure is voluntary or mandatory, the principal purpose for which the information is intended to be used, the uses outside the agency which may be made of the information, and the effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.



The NIH is requesting the information called for in this RFQ pursuant to the authority provided by Sec. 301(a)(7) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, and P.L. 92-218, as amended.



Providing the information requested is entirely voluntary.  The collection of this information is for the purpose of conducting an accurate, fair, and adequate review prior to a discussion as to whether to award a purchase order.



Failure to provide any or all of the requested information may result in a less than adequate review.



In addition, the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579, Section 7) requires that the following information be provided when individuals are requested to disclose their social security number.



Provision of the social security number is voluntary.  Social security numbers are requested for the purpose of accurate and efficient identification, referral, review and management of NIH acquisition programs.  Authority for requesting this information is provided by Section 301 and Title IV of the PHS Act, as amended.



The information provided by you may be routinely disclosed for the following purposes:



to the cognizant audit agency and the General Accounting Office for auditing.

to the Department of Justice as required for litigation.

to respond to congressional inquiries.

to qualified experts, not within the definition of Department employees, for opinions as a part of the review process.



SELECTION OF VENDOR

You are advised that an award of a purchase order will be made to the vendor that the Government determines to represent the best value and results in the lowest overall cost alternative (considering price, special features, administrative costs, etc.) to meet the Government’s needs.  The evaluation criteria to be used by the Government are described in E., EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD, below.



ALTERNATE PROPOSALS 

You may, at your discretion, submit alternate proposals, or proposals which deviate from the requirements; provided, that you also submit a proposal for performance of the work as specified in the statement of work.  Such proposals may be considered if overall performance would be improved or not compromised and if they are in the best interests of the Government.  Alternative proposals, or deviations from any requirements of this solicitation, shall be clearly identified.



NUMBER OF COPIES OF QUOTATION

Your quotation shall be organized as specified in Section B., GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS; Section C., INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE QUOTATION; and Section D., INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE BUSINESS PORTION OF THE QUOTATION; and submitted by Wednesday, January 25, 2012 at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, in an electronic format to the addresses below.  Proposals must be in WORD or PDF format and should not exceed 5MB total.  Your organization must also submit 1 original and 3 hard copies of your proposal. These copies must be received at the address listed below:



Ryan Singletary

Contract Specialist

National Library of Medicine

6707 Democracy Blvd., Ste. 105

MSC 5488

Bethesda, Maryland 20892-5488





In addition to hard-copies, the vendor shall provide a copy by electronic mail (e-mail) to the above contracting office at  by the due date and time stated above.



PURCHASE ORDER TYPE

The Government intends to award a single FIXED PRICE purchase order as a result of this solicitation. 



The awarded purchase order shall contain the attached Terms and Conditions Addendum.



ORAL PRESENTATIONS

You are advised that offerors responding to this solicitation may be invited to provide oral presentations to the Government after the Government completes its initial evaluation of your proposal.  If oral presentations are required, they will occur within 10 business days of the proposal due date.





C.  INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE QUOTATION



PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE QUOTATION

The offeror shall include in its quotation a discussion of the offeror's proposed technical approach to respond to the requirements in the statement of work.  The discussion is expected not to exceed 20 typewritten pages (including subcontract information).  A single printed copy of one appendix, not to exceed 50 pages, containing up to five examples of previous work may be submitted to support the offeror’s technical proposal.  The appendix is also due with the technical proposal on Wednesday, January 25, 2012 at 4:00 p.m., to Ryan Singletary (address as above). 



EVALUATION OF THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF QUOTATIONS

The technical portion of quotations will be evaluated in accordance with the factors, weights, and order of relative importance as described in E.  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD below.





ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE QUOTATION

Quotations which merely offer to conduct the work in accordance with the requirements of the Government’s scope of work will be considered nonresponsive.  The quoter must submit an explanation of the proposed technical approach in conjunction with the tasks to be performed in achieving the project objectives.



Evaluation of the technical portion of quotations will be conducted by a technical review committee in accordance with the evaluation criteria stated in E. EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD below.



D.  INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE BUSINESS PORTION OF THE QUOTATION



PRICE INFORMATION

Quoters shall submit a detailed breakdown of estimated labor hours and rates by tasks to be performed.  In addition, a summary total amount shall be furnished for the entire project.



The business portion of the quotation must contain sufficient information to allow the Government to perform a basic analysis of the proposed price of the work.



INFORMATION OTHER THAN PRICING DATA

The vendor shall submit sufficiently detailed information to permit the Contracting Officer and authorized representatives to evaluate the offer.



Unless otherwise stated in this solicitation, the information may be submitted in the quoter’s own format.





E.  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



GENERAL

You are advised that an award of a purchase order will be made to the vendor whose quotation is determined by the Government to represent the best value and results in the lowest overall cost alternative (considering price, special features, administrative costs, etc.) to meet the Government’s needs.	



EVALUATION OF OPTIONS

In accordance with FAR clause 52.217-5, Evaluation of Options (July 1990), the Government will evaluate quotations for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement, except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best interest.  Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).  There will be four 12 month period options for this award.



EVALUATION CRITERIA

In determining which offer represents the best value (i.e., labor hours, special features, administrative costs) to meet the Government’s needs, the Government shall evaluate responses using the following evaluation criteria that are listed in descending order of priority:



The technical proposal will receive paramount consideration in the selection of the offerors for this acquisition.  In the event that the technical evaluation reveals that two or more offerors are approximately equal in the technical ability, then cost may become a significant factor in determining award.  In any event, the government reserves the right to make an award based on a best value determination, cost and other factors considered.



Offerors merely proposing to provide a service in accordance with the statement of work will not be eligible for award.  The proposal must include a comprehensive plan for meeting the needs of the Government, addressing each of the requirements of the statement of work and explaining the proposed technical approach to be used.  Failure to provide the information required to evaluate the proposal may result in the rejection of the proposal without further consideration.



Mandatory Criteria



The Offeror must be able to provide all services and support as described in the Statement of work, including optional quantities.



Factors							Total Possible: 100 pts.



Technical Approach 	                                                 Points:    50

Service Support                                                           Points:    30

Corporate Related :                                                      Points:    20



Technical Capability	 - 50%



The criteria below are listed in the order of relative importance for evaluation purposes:



Comprehensiveness of coverage for monitoring high-end access to web sites with  and international coverage



Ability to carry out performance measurement and monitoring on a continuous 24x7x365 basis and with frequencies as specified in the SOW.



Provides private dedicated agents (appliances) that provide measurements that are not subject to any data contamination due to varying hardware implementations, issues that regularly occur with any software-only based solution. The agents should have Internet Explorer imbedded.



Diagnostic services that allow NLM staff to get performance advice consultants that are adept at identifying Website performance issues.



The capability to export measurement data to NLM servers on demand.





Service Support - 30%



Support for appliances should be comprehensive



Support for monitoring incidents should be prompt and complete



Diagnostic support for services should be from experts in the respective fields.



Corporate Related Experience - 20%



Monitoring web services should is part of the core competency of the Offeror.



The Offeror should have a leadership position in the domestic and international Internet performance measurement business.



A final best-buy analysis will be performed taking into consideration the results of the technical evaluation, cost/price analysis, and ability to complete the work as described.						 

F.	ATTACHMENTS TO THE RFQ



Statement of Work



STATEMENT OF WORK 











National Library of Medicine Internet Monitoring Services




































Contents








































STATEMENT OF WORK 



1. Task Order Title: 



National Library of Medicine Internet Monitoring Services





2. Background Information:



The Internet and World Wide Web (WWW or web) play a critical role in dissemination of NLM information services.  Availability of, and access to the NLM databases via the Internet and Internet 2 is critical for the NLM mission.  These factors combined require the need for a comprehensive and dynamic NLM web monitoring process.  The immediate requirements of the NLM Internet Monitoring Services include: (a) taking measurements of customer perception and use of NLM web sites, as well as (b) monitoring of the quality and availability of Internet connections by which users access NLM information services.  



3. Objectives



The contractor shall support NLM in the above efforts.  This is a contract request for a commercial service to provide NLM with monitoring of its selected web sites from various locations domestically and internationally and from various network providers. This information will be used to help NLM monitor the performance of its information services from an end user perspective, and will also be used to alert NLM technical staff when performance or availability of the services fall below established thresholds of performance. 



4. Scope



The scope of this procurement is the acquisition of Internet and Internet2 monitoring services for selected NLM web sites.



5. Description of Work



The contractor shall provide NLM with the following services, which provides comprehensive performance data on NLM online business and applications - all from the end-user’s perspective. The following are the measurement requirements:



Emulate an Internet browser to generate and measure scripted transactions from locations on the . Measurements are from a combination of at least 16 domestic and international cities, and one Internet provider backbone from each city. Frequency is at least four per hour.



Number of NLM web sites to monitor:



Initial Quantity = 15 sites

Base year = 5-20 sites

Option years 1 thru 4 = 0-20 sites



Measure the quality of NLM streaming media using the latest media players in the market for true end user representation. From single site locations, streaming data checks (901kbps – 1.200 kbps). Frequency of checks is at least two per hour.  



Initial Quantity = 2 sites

Base year = 1-5 sites

Option years 1 thru 4 = 0-10 sites





Provide hardware appliances that measure application performance from NLM-specified private networks (e.g. regional libraries on Internet2). These appliances hardware and software must be supported by the vendor. The private agents must use a real embedded Internet Explorer browser with caching which simulates a real word scenario of a user returning to the monitored site. 



Number of appliances:



Initial Quantity = 10 appliances

Base year = 5-15 appliances

Option years 1 thru 4 = 0-20 appliances; 



Number of measurements per agent = up to 10 measurements per agent @ 15 minute frequency



A Data-feed Service. This provides the capability to export the collected performance data from the provider’s repository to an NLM server which can then analyze and display the information into NLM developed custom views. 



The contractor shall provide Technical Support services for the above specified monitoring services at the level of one incident per month.



The vendor will provide NLM with two accounts for managing the above services via the web. These accounts will be used to manage two groupings of NLM-managed web sites.



NLM can elect to exercise additional quantities of these items during the base and option years of the contract, from the ranges as specified.





6. Government Furnished Equipment



The Government will provide space in a 19” wide data rack for the any required hardware. 



Government will provide a dedicated power outlet and common ground. 





7. Contract Type



This is a fixed price contract. 



8. Place of Performance





National Library of Medicine

Building 38A

8600 Rockville Pike

Bethesda, MD 20894



Hardware appliances will be located at various NLM regional libraries located in the continental US and Hawaii. 









9. Approximate Period of Performance



Base Year		3/01/2012 – 2/28/2013

Option Year 1		3/01/2013 – 2/28/2014

Option Year 2		3/01/2014 – 2/28/2015

Option Year 3		3/01/2015 – 2/28/2016







10. Deliverables/Delivery Schedule 

	

The contractor shall provide NLM with the services as specified in the statement of work. E-mail alerts will be sent to NLM-designated mailing lists when web page download times exceed the specified thresholds, or when NLM web services are unreachable. The contractor shall also provide and ship appliance monitoring agents for NLM to install and use to monitor designated NLM web sites for access over the Internet2 network. The contractor shall provide Technical Support for the Services provided to NLM.



The vendor shall provide NLM with two accounts for managing services via a web interface.







11. Post-Award Administration 



The following Contract Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) will represent the Government for the purpose of this contract: 



		COTR:  TBD

		Alternate COTR: TBD

 		Alternate COTR: TBD

		 

The COTR will be responsible for monitoring this task and coordinating work schedules with on-site personnel.  The COTR will be the Contractor’s point of contact for resolution of technical and administrative concerns.  



12. Evaluation Criteria



Proposals submitted for providing the technical support described above to NLM, shall be evaluated on the following criteria.



General



The major evaluation factors for this request for quotation include technical which encompasses experience of the corporation factors, and cost/price factors.  Although technical factors are of paramount consideration in the award of the contract, cost/price is also important to the overall contract award decision.  All evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price.



Offerors are advised that award will be made to that Offeror whose quotation provides the best overall value to the Government.



The evaluation will be based on the demonstrated capabilities of the prospective Contractors in relation to the needs of the project as set forth in the Statement of Work.  The merits of each quotation will be evaluated carefully.  The Offeror must submit information sufficient to evaluate their quotation based on the detailed criteria listed below.  Failure to provide the information required may result in rejection of the quotation without further consideration.



Mandatory Criteria



The Offeror must be able to provide all services and support as described in the Statement of work, including optional quantities.





Technical Capability	 - 50%



The criteria below are listed in the order of relative importance for evaluation purposes:



Comprehensiveness of coverage for monitoring high-end access to web sites with  and international coverage



Ability to carry out performance measurement and monitoring on a continuous 24x7x365 basis and with frequencies as specified in the SOW.



Provides private dedicated agents (appliances) that provide measurements that are not subject to any data contamination due to varying hardware implementations, issues that regularly occur with any software-only based solution. The agents should have Internet Explorer imbedded.



Diagnostic services that allow NLM staff to get performance advice consultants that are adept at identifying Website performance issues.



The capability to export measurement data to NLM servers on demand.





Service Support - 30%



Support for appliances should be comprehensive



Support for monitoring incidents should be prompt and complete



Diagnostic support for services should be from experts in the respective fields.



Corporate Related Experience - 20%



Monitoring web services should is part of the core competency of the Offeror.



The Offeror should have a leadership position in the domestic and international Internet performance measurement business.



A final best-buy analysis will be performed taking into consideration the results of the technical evaluation, cost/price analysis, and ability to complete the work as described.						 

