Features for Heat Stress App



Scalable Heat Stress forecast map.  The image would be scalable using a two-finger zoom.  These images are taken from a radar app; the zoom range would be similar.  The entire map would be covered with a semi-transparent image that would have four colors (green=normal, yellow=alert, orange=danger, red=emergency).





User defined “Push Notifications”.  The user would select 1 to 5 locations.  Then the app would generate notifications if the conditions were in the danger or emergency categories.  The user could define the # of days to be pre-warned (Current day, 3 days out, 5 days out, 7 days out).  The user could also turn off the notifications.  When notifications are turned on a message would appear on the home screen and a sound would play (if sound was active on the phone).  An example message is shown below.  The notification would happen once a day first thing in the morning (~6AM).





















Additional information…

A series of photos that will show pictures of cattle for slightly stressed to extremely stress (5 to 7 photos).

Steps to take before a heat event. (Text – maybe a “slide show with photos”?)

What to do in case of a heat emergency. (Text – maybe a “slide show with photos”?)

Cattle Risk Factors - (Text – maybe a “slide show with photos”?)

Environmental Risk Factors -(Text – maybe a “slide show with photos”?)



Other things that might be nice!



An alternate view.  The user can select either the map view or a 7 day forecast for their area.





Additional Items or ideas for new apps.

Current Research Findings at MARC. 

Have a ticker screen at the bottom that will list titles of newly releases articles on feedlot cattle.

If the user clicks on the ticker – a list of titles will come up with a button to touch to get more information.

The user can touch the button and an email of the Interpretative summary and abstract will be sent to the users email address.

This may be nice as another app – for all of ARS research – where the users could select keywords for which articles they are interested in.  The key words could be changeable.  In additional, users could search for other research.  Research Highlights could be added from the ARS magazine articles – which would give the general public an idea of the scope of research ARS does.

Please wait...
If this message is not eventually replaced by the proper contents of the document, your PDF viewer may not be able to display this type of document. You can upgrade to the latest version of Adobe Reader for WindowsŽ, Mac, or LinuxŽ by visiting http://www.adobe.com/go/reader_download. For more assistance with Adobe Reader visit http://www.adobe.com/go/acrreader.
Windows is either a registered trademark or a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Mac is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the United States and other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries.


PLEASE PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (FAR 52.204-3)(SEP 1989)




Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) (USDA 452.204-70) (DEC 1989)




Please indicate if you accept VISA credit card for this order   YES____ NO_____


 This is a Buy Best Value acquisition. The Government will award a Purchase Order resulting from this Request for Quotes to the responsible
offeror whose quote is conforming to the solicitation and represents the most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors
considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:

EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD
1. Past Performance -
Quotes will be evaluated based on the offeror’s past performance as provided by the offeror’s references.
      2. Offeror’s Technical Solution
The Government will evaluate the performance of the offeror’s product for capability and performance.
      3. Quality and Reliability:
Quotes will be evaluated on the offeror’s capability to provide the product with the level of Quality and Reliability.
           4. Price
NOTE:
All evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price. Factors and sub-factors are
prioritized in the following order of importance (i.e. most important first, least important last) for award evaluation 2, 3, 1, 4.

The Government will evaluate quotes for award purposes, considering the evaluation factors above, and will award to that offeror whose proposal
represents the best value to the Government.

This request for quotation can be faxed to 402-762-4148 or emailed to donita.furman@ars.usda.gov

Provision filled out under signature 



AGAR 452.209 – 70      Representation by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction.  (DEVIATION 2012-01) (FEB 2012)



(a)  Awards made under this solicitation are subject to the provisions contained in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012 (P.L. No. 112-55), Division A, Sections 738 and 739 regarding corporate felony convictions and corporate federal tax delinquencies.  To comply with these provisions, all offerors must complete paragraph (1) of this representation, and all corporate offerors also must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of this representation.



(b)  The Offeror represents that –



 The Offeror is [   ],    is not [   ] (check one)    an entity that has filed articles of incorporation in one of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, or the various territories of the United States including American Samoa, Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Midway Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands.  (Note that this includes both for-profit and non-profit organizations.)



If the Offeror checked “is” above, the Offeror must complete paragraphs (2) and (3) of the representation.  If Offeror checked “is not” above, Offeror may leave the remainder of the representation blank.



(i)   The Offeror has [   ],     has not [   ] (check one)   been convicted of a felony criminal violation under Federal or State law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer. 



      (ii)   The Offeror has [   ],   has not [   ] (check one)   had any officer or agent of Offeror convicted of a felony criminal violation for actions taken on behalf of Offeror under Federal or State law in the 24 months preceding the date of offer.



 The Offeror does [   ],     does not [   ] (check one)    have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.



(End of provision)









Name of Company









Signature                                                                                                           Date



Please sign and check appropriate boxes