General Overview:
The Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU), located in Bethesda, MD, has a requirement to renew the subscriptions for the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) published by the Massachusetts Medical Society. The USU is the only Federal health sciences university and we are committed to excellence in military medicine and public health during peace and war. We provide the Nation with health professionals dedicated to career service in the Department of Defense (DoD) and the United States Public Health Service (PHS) and with scientists who serve the common good. We serve the uniformed services and the Nation as an outstanding academic health sciences center with a worldwide perspective for education, research, service, and consultation; we are unique in relating these activities to military medicine, disaster medicine, and military medical readiness. USU is located in Bethesda, MD on the grounds of the Naval Support Activity Bethesda. Additional information regarding USU and its mission can be found on our website: www.usuhs.mil. This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items in accordance with the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This is a Request for Quotes (RFQ) for commercial items in accordance with the procedures of FAR Part 12 Acquisition of Commercial Items and Part 13 Simplified Acquisition Procedures. This RFQ incorporates all provisions and clauses in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular FAC 2005-74, effective May 30, 2014 and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), effective May 28, 2014. This requirement is set-aside for small business concerns under North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Code 519130 Internet Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals with a size standard of 500 employees. In order to be eligible for award, offerors must be registered on SAM.gov with completed Representations & Certifications (Reps & Certs). Offerors not registered on SAM.gov with completed Reps & Certs will not be eligible for award. Offerors interested in responding to this requirement must provide a quote for a Tier-5 online subscription and a print copy of the New England Journal of Medicine published by Massachusetts Medical Society, which at a minimum meets the specifications listed below. A single firm-fixed-price (FFP) purchase order (PO) will be awarded.

Minimum Specifications:
The Department of Defense (DoD) falls under Tier 5. The annual, site-license subscription renewal of the New England Journal of Medicine must be available online with an unlimited access to the entire DoD. The period of performance (PoP) is from June 7, 2014 to June 6, 2015. We also require a print copy of the New England Journal of Medicine, which will be archived at USU. The print copy must include all articles published during the same PoP as the annual online subscription.

Offerors responding to this requirement must provide pricing, at a minimum, for the following contract line item numbers (CLINs): CLIN 0001 0002 Description Annual subscription renewal for New England Journal of Medicine (Tier-5, Online-Access) Annual subscription renewal for New England Journal of Medicine (Print Copy) Quantity 1 1 Unit of Issue Year Each / Year

The PoP is from June 7, 2014 to June 6, 2015. In order to be considered for award, offerors must provide a quote for all the CLINs listed in the "CLIN Structure" attachment.

Evaluation / Award Detail:
The Government intends to award a single FFP PO on the basis of Lowest-Price Technically-Acceptable (LPTA) source selection process. Quoted items must be new. Offerors must include all applicable cost, e.g. shipping & handling, in their quote. If you require payment via a third-party-payment merchant, e.g. PayPal, you must include a compelling reason on why a government purchase card (GPC Via) or an electronic funds transfer (EFT via DFAS) cannot be accepted. Items will be shipped to Bethesda, MD. See attached list for applicable provisions and clauses for this requirement. The Government reserves the right to award without discussions. Questions/clarifications regarding this solicitation must be submitted via email to andrew.lee@usuhs.edu by June 10, 2014. Any question received after June 10, 2014 will not be answered. Questions will not be answered over the phone or submitted by any other means. All questions will be answered in an amendment to the solicitation posted on or around June 11, 2014. Quote packages are due by 10:00PM EST on June 16, 2014. Quotes must be submitted via email to andrew.lee@usuhs.edu. Quotes will not be accepted by any other means. Late quotes will not be considered. Quote packages should include a cover sheet that provides the following information: a. Official Company Name; b. Point-of-Contact, including name, email address, and phone number; c. DUNS Number; d. Statement that includes acknowledgement of latest amendment number; and

e. Tax Identification Number (TIN). TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the contractor's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C 7701(c)(3) ­ FAR 13.106-3(e)).

Attachments (2)

REQUIRED PROVISION



252.209-7993 Representation by Corporations Regarding an Unpaid Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law—Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations.



REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER ANY FEDERAL LAW—FISCAL YEAR 2014 APPROPRIATIONS 

(DEVIATION 2014-OO0009) (FEB 2014)



	(a)  In accordance with sections 8113 and 8114 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014, and sections 414 and 415 of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76, Divisions C and J), none of the funds made available by those divisions (including Military Construction funds) may be used to enter into a contract with any corporation that—



		(1)  Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government; or 



		(2)  Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.



	(b)  The Offeror represents that—



		(1)  It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability,



		(2)  It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months. 



[End of Provision]