











                                                    QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN (QASP)
                                                     IT Infrastructure Alternatives Analysis
                                                                     for the
                                       Information Technology Infrastructure Operations Department (ITIOD),
                                                within the Office of Information Technology (OIT)
                                                                      of the
                                                    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC)
                                                                in Washington, DC






                                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


     TABLE OF CONTENTS ii
1.0   Introduction     1
     1.1    Purpose    1
     1.2    Performance Management Approach   1
     1.3    Performance Management Strategy   2
2.0   Roles And Responsibilities  2
3.0   Identification of Services To Be Performed   2
4.0   Methodologies To Monitor Performance   2
5.0   Quality Assurance Reporting 3
6.0   Analysis of Quality Assurance Monitoring Results   3
7.0   Failure To Perform     4


                                                       QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN
                                                                      (QASP)


   1. Introduction

This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) is based on requirements listed in the performance-based Performance Work Statement (PWS)
entitled “IT Infrastructure Alternatives Analysis”. This performance-based plan explains the procedures and guidelines PBGC will use in
evaluating the technical performance of the service contractor.


1. Purpose
        1. The purpose of the QASP is to describe on a high level the methods that will be used to measure performance and to identify the
           resources that will be used. The QASP provides a means for evaluating how well the contractor is meeting the performance standards
           identified in the PWS.

        2. This QASP is designed to define on a high level roles and responsibilities, identify the overall performance objectives, define the
           methodologies used to monitor and evaluate the contractor’s performance, contractor’s deliverables, describe quality assurance
           reporting, and describe the analysis of quality assurance monitoring results. Separately issued Task Orders will have their own
           targeted QASPs, as necessary, for key deliverables.


2. Performance Management Approach
   1.
        1. The performance-based PWS structures the acquisition around “what” service is required as opposed to “how” the contractor should
           perform the work. This QASP will define the performance management approach taken by the PBGC to monitor, manage, and take
           appropriate action on the contractor’s performance against expected outcomes or performance objectives communicated in the PWS.
           Performance management rests upon developing a capability to review and analyze information generated through performance metrics.
           The ability to make decisions based on the analysis of performance data is the basis of performance management. The data generated in
           a performance management approach provides information that indicates whether or not expected outcomes for required services are
           being achieved adequately by the contractor.

        2. Performance management also represents a significant shift from the more traditional Quality Assurance (QA) concepts in several ways.
           Performance management focuses on assessing whether or not outcomes are being achieved and migrates away from scrutiny on compliance
           with the processes and practices used to achieve the outcome. The only exceptions to process reviews are those required by law
           (Federal, State, and local), compelling business situations such as safety and health, and compliance with Agency policies and
           procedures. An outcome focus provides the contractor flexibility to continuously improve and innovate over the course of the contract
           as long as the critical outcomes expected are being achieved at the desired levels of performance.


3. Performance Management Strategy
   2.
        1. The contractor’s Quality Control Plan (QCP) will set forth the staffing and procedures for self inspecting the quality, timeliness,
           responsiveness, customer satisfaction, and other performance requirements in the PWS. The contractor will develop and implement a
           performance management system with processes to assess and report their performance to the designated Government representative.

        2. The Government representative will monitor performance and review performance reports furnished by the contractor to determine how
           the contractor is performing against documented performance objectives. The Government will make decisions based on performance
           measurement metric data and notify the contractor of those decisions. The contractor will be responsible for making required changes
           in processes and practices to ensure performance is managed effectively.


   2. Roles And Responsibilities

   1. The Contracting Officer (CO) is responsible for monitoring contract compliance, contract administration and cost control; and resolving any
      differences between the observations documented by the COTR and the contractor’s performance.
   2. The CO will designate a full-time COTR as the Government authority for performance management. The number of additional representatives
      serving as Technical Inspectors depends upon the complexity of the services measured as well as the contractor’s performance.
   3. The COTR is responsible for monitoring, assessing, and communicating the technical performance of the contractor and assisting the
      contractor. Communications and documentation will be provided in a timely fashion as not impede the work being performed. Government
      surveillance may occur under the Inspection of Services clause for any service relating to the contract.

   3. Identification of Services To Be Performed

The objective of this effort is to acquire an outside source with expertise and core capabilities in detailed Alternatives Analysis and
Comparative Benefit Cost Analysis techniques and methodologies. The contractor shall perform detailed Alternatives Analysis and Comparative
Benefit Cost Analysis in support of the IT Infrastructure Investment planning and decision making process, as required in OMB Circulars A-11 and
A-94, and in accordance with the PWS. The performance standards are established in the paragraph of the PWS that covers the specific category of
work. The acceptable level of performance is set in the acceptable quality level related to that paragraph.


   4. Methodologies To Monitor Performance

   1. In an effort to minimize the contract administration burden, simplified methods of surveillance techniques shall be used by the Government
      to evaluate contractor performance. Methods of surveillance are generally conducted by COTR Review or Contractor self-reviewing and
      reporting. Additional methods such as random checks, observations, inspections, complaints and review files that are required to be
      maintained and delivered under this performance work statement may be included. The Government will use appointed representatives, as well
      as reports and input from agency federal and contractor employees as sources of comments on the contractor’s performance.
   2. The contractor is expected to establish and maintain professional communication between its employees and customers. The primary objective
      of professional communication between employees and customers is customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is the most significant
      external indicator of the success and effectiveness of all services provided and can be measured through customer complaints. Performance
      management drives the contractor to be customer focused through initially addressing customer complaints and investigating the issues
      and/or problems.
NOTE: The customer always has the option to communicate complaints to the COTR as opposed to the contractor. The COTR will accept the customer
complaints and will investigate and communicate any findings with the contractor to ensure the opportunity to address any valid performance
issues.

   3. The acceptable quality levels (AQL) located in Attachment 1, Performance Requirements Summary Table, for contractor performance are
      structured to allow the contractor to manage how the work is performed.

   5. Quality Assurance Reporting

   1. The performance management feedback loop begins with the communication of expected outcomes. Performance standards are expressed in the PWS
      and measured by the required performance metrics in Attachment 1.

   6. Analysis of Quality Assurance Monitoring Results

   1. The Government shall use the observation methods cited to determine whether the AQLs have been met.
   2. The COTR may require the contractor’s project manager, or a designated alternate, to meet with the COTR, QAS, and other Government
      personnel as deemed necessary to discuss performance evaluation. The COTR will define a frequency of in-depth reviews with the contractor,
      however if the need arises, the contractor will meet with the COTR as often as required or per the contractor’s request. The agenda of the
      reviews may discuss:

                     • Monthly performance measured by the metrics and trends

                     • Issues and concerns of both parties

                     • Projected outlook for upcoming months and progress against expected trends

                     • Recommendations made by the QAS based on contractor information

                     • Issues arising from independent reviews and inspections
   3. The contractor will discuss with the COTR/QAS satisfaction ratings receiving a “less than acceptable” rating. For such cases, the
      contractor should highlight its perspective on factors driving customer satisfaction and present plans to adjust service levels accordingly
      to bring the satisfaction rating up to an acceptable level.
   4. The COTR/QAS and contractor should jointly formulate tactical and long–term courses of action. Decisions regarding changes to metrics,
      thresholds, or service levels should be clearly documented. Changes to service levels, procedures, and metrics will be incorporated as a
      contract modification at the convenience of the COTR.

   7. Failure To Perform

   1. Notifications. Consistent with FAR Part 49, the COTR shall notify the service provider of failure to meet standards through documented
      feedback, cure notices, or show cause notices and shall inform the service provider manager or designated alternate of such notices.
   2. Termination. If the COTR determines that the contractor has failed to perform to the extent that a termination for default is justified,
      the CO shall issue a notice of termination, consistent with FAR Part 49.


|Desired      |Required                                           |Performance                                             |Acceptable        |Method of                                    |
|Outcome      |Service                                            |Standards                                               |Quality Levels    |Surveillance                                 |
|Provide and apply a methodology to identify and define the “As Is” IT infrastructure  (C.7.1)                                                                                              |
|             |Provide documented proposed methodology for the “As|Proposed methodology will capture reasonably expected   |95%               |Review by COTR/OIT project manager, ITIOD    |
|             |Is” state to include:  a) data gathering strategy; |data elements, to include people, process and technology|                  |SMEs and OIT EA, against industry best       |
|             |b) data elements to be collected; and c)           |comprising PBGC IT infrastructure.                      |                  |practices and prior analytical methodologies |
|             |Information gathering tools—e.g., templates.       |                                                        |                  |used at PBGC.                                |
|             |                                                   |Proposed methodology will capture results of prior      |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |analytical efforts as described in PWS.                 |95%               |                                             |
|             |                                                   |                                                        |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |Proposed methodology shall be deemed reasonably         |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |achievable within project timeframe, considering        |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |consistent Government availability.                     |95%               |                                             |
|             |                                                   |                                                        |                  |                                             |
|Conduct the “As Is” Assessment of OIT’s IT Infrastructure (C.7.2)                                                                                                                          |
|             |Provide As Is assessment of OIT’s IT               |As Is assessment will reasonably match prior As Is      |                  |                                             |
|             |infrastructure.                                    |assessments, SME understanding of subject areas and     |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |Federally verified statistics relating to hardware,     |95%               |Review by COTR/OIT project manager, ITIOD    |
|             |                                                   |software, costs and personnel.                          |                  |SMEs, OIT EA and ITIOD management.           |
|Compare OIT “As Is” State to Industry Best Practices and Metrics  (C.7.3)                                                                                                                  |
|             |Provide gap analysis report describing where the   |Gap Analysis will clearly demonstrate where As Is       |100%; no deviation|                                             |
|             |“As Is” does not meet industry best practices and  |infrastructure does not meet industry best practices.   |without acceptable|Review by COTR/OIT project manager, ITIOD    |
|             |metrics, including a description of the best       |                                                        |documented        |SMEs, OIT EA and ITIOD management.           |
|             |practices and metrics comparison standard/data and |Industry best practices will be clearly and             |explanation.      |                                             |
|             |an executive summary.                              |comprehensively explained and completely sourced.       |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |                                                        |                  |                                             |
|Conduct the Alternatives Analysis and Provide a Recommended Alternative  (C.7.4)                                                                                                           |
|             |Provide all deliverables as described in           |Deliverables will provide complete, actionable          |100%; no deviation|                                             |
|             |“Deliverables” table for PWS C.7.4.                |Alternatvies Analysis, Recommended Alternative and all  |without acceptable|Review by COTR/OIT project manager, ITIOD    |
|             |                                                   |contracted- for documents related to the production of  |documented        |SMEs, OIT EA and ITIOD management.           |
|             |                                                   |the IT Infrastructure OMB Exhibit 300.                  |explanation       |                                             |
|             |                                                   |                                                        |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |Deliverables will comply with FEA and those government  |                  |                                             |
|             |                                                   |regulations specified in PWS C.5.                       |                  |                                             |
|PROJECT MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES (C.6)                                                                                                                                                  |
|             |Contractor shall use PBGC’s corporate project      |Keep project data updated according to agreed upon      |100%; no deviation|COTR/OIT project manager review of corporate |
|             |management application, Primavera P6, to input     |timeframe defined and documented by the COTR            |without acceptable|project management application               |
|             |project data (i.e. project plan, hours worked,     |                                                        |documented        |                                             |
|             |etc.)                                              |                                                        |explanation       |                                             |







SECTION B—SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES—PERFORMANCE-BASED SERVICES CONTRACT

B.1   DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
The contractor shall provide all services outlined in the Performance Work Statement (PWS).

B.2   TYPE OF CONTRACT

The Government contemplates award of a Firm Fixed Price contract.

B.3   PRICING SCHEDULE

The offeror shall propose a Firm Fixed Price for all services outlined in the Performance work Statement.

                                                       PRICING SCHEDULE  (FIRM FIXED PRICE)

                                                                   Base Period

Period of Performance: Not to exceed five (5) months from date of contract award.

|Contract Line Item Number |Program Area/ Required Service(s)                                                     |Total Amount           |
|(CLIN)                    |                                                                                      |                       |
|0001 FFP                  |IT Infrastructure Alternatives Analysis in accordance with the Performance Work       |                       |
|                          |Statement                                                                             |                       |

|Contract Line Item Number (CLIN)        |Other Direct Costs (Specify)                                             |Total Cost             |
|0002                                    |                                                                         |                       |


B.4   OTHER DIRECT CHARGES AND TRAVEL COSTS

a. The contractor shall be reimbursed for the actual cost of other direct charges determined to be allowable in accordance with Part 31 of the
   Federal Acquisition Regulations and authorized by the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) with the exception of proposed
   subcontracts that must be approved by the Contracting Officer.

b. The fixed price cost shall include other direct charges. Specifically, the offeror should include as an ODC trips to Wilmington, DE and
   Richmond Heights, OH.

c. Except as otherwise provided herein, the contractor shall be reimbursed for its reasonable actual travel costs in accordance with its usual
   accounting practices consistent with FAR Subpart 31.2, specifically FAR 31.205-46. Travel must be directly related to and required for
   performance of this contract, and authorized in advance and in writing by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).

d. Travel costs shall not be burdened with any indirect costs unless specifically allowable in accordance with the contractor's usual accounting
   practices consistent with FAR Subpart 31.2. In no event shall travel costs be burdened with fee/profit.

e. The contractor shall include a breakout of all authorized travel expenses as an attachment to his invoices.
                                                                    SECTION C
                                                            PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

C.1   INTRODUCTION

The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) is a federal corporation created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA)
to encourage the continuation and maintenance of private-sector defined benefit pension plans, provide timely and uninterrupted payment of
pension benefits, and keep pension insurance premiums at a minimum. Defined benefit pension plans promise to pay a specified monthly benefit at
retirement, commonly based on salary and years on the job.

PBGC currently protects the pensions of more than 44 million American workers and retirees in 30,330 private sector defined benefit pension
plans. PBGC receives no funds from general tax revenues. Operations are financed by insurance premiums set by Congress and paid by sponsors of
defined benefit plans, investment income, and assets from pension plans trusted by PBGC, and recoveries from the companies formerly responsible
for the plans. The goals and objectives of PBGC are described at www.pbgc.gov.

The PBGC Director reports to a Board of Directors consisting of the Secretaries of Labor, Commerce and Treasury, with the Secretary of Labor as
Chairperson. The Corporation is aided by a seven-member Advisory Committee appointed by the President of the United States to represent the
interests of labor, employers, and the general public. ERISA outlines several specific responsibilities for PBGC’s Advisory Committee, including
advising on policies and procedures for PBGC’s investments, the trusteeship of terminated plans, and on other matters as determined by PBGC.

PBGC’s Office of Information Technology (OIT), led by the Acting Chief Information Officer, manages the PBGC’s information technology (IT)
assets. OIT responsibility includes all information technology.  OIT is presently comprised of 95 federal employees and approximately 400
contractor staff, of whom approximately 130 are associated with IT infrastructure activities.

The bankruptcy of companies with under-funded traditional pension plans, known as “defined benefit” plans, is the primary external factor
driving PBGC’s workload and, to a certain extent, the volume and type of activities OIT supports. The economic conditions leading to these
bankruptcies tend to be cyclical but unpredictable in their timing. This means that OIT may be called upon to support increasing or decreasing
levels of activity with relatively little lead time for planning and procurement. In the late 1990s, for example, PBGC typically became
responsible for approximately 30,000 new participants – current or future retirees and dependents from bankrupt companies with under-funded
pension plans – per year.  In the early to mid 2000s, on the other hand, PBGC had multiple years in which it became responsible for over 200,000
participants. For a few years, new participant accessions returned to close to historical levels but have now begun trending upward again, with
a sharp increase in 2009. Although there is not a one-to-one correlation between new participant accessions and load on the OIT infrastructure,
this cycle has been the prime determinant of infrastructure size and scope.

OIT faces challenges with its aging infrastructure and its ability to meet minimum standards, security and disaster recovery requirements, as
well as systems development, test and validation requirements.  PBGC currently owns the majority of its infrastructure while contracting for
operations and other services as outlined in “Current Environment” below (See C.4).

There are three additional factors that will need to be considered during the alternatives analysis.  The first is that, in November, 2009, the
PBGC Inspector General (IG) released a report detailing major concerns with PBGC’s IT security program.  The IG stated “We noted significant
deficiencies in the following areas, which combined constitute a material weakness:  Entity-wide Security Program Planning and Management,
Access Controls and Configuration Management, and Integrated Financial Management Systems”. The second factor is that PBGC recently conducted an
outsourcing assessment.  During this process, PBGC learned that it was not ready to use outsourced services that were so heavily focused on IT
infrastructure only.  The final factor is guidance received from the Obama administration regarding cloud and green computing.  PBGC is
certainly interested in pursuing these initiatives but only as they prove to be viable and PBGC proves to be a viable consumer of them.  The
functions currently conducted by OIT primarily fall into the categories of IT project management, systems and software operations and
maintenance including all corporate database, application and file/print services, storage/backup and restore services, wide and local area
network and telecommunications management, and telephone and support services including a Service Desk, 1st through 3rd tier application
troubleshooting support, application development support, disaster recovery/COOP services and a Network Operations Center staffed 24x7.

C.2   DESIRED OUTCOME

OIT seeks to simplify its IT infrastructure while making it more cost effective and modern.  It desires to do so in order to improve the IT
security posture, to support current and pending business requirements, and to be able to absorb periods of rapid growth in number of
participant accessions.  OIT is procuring this OMB-compliant Alternatives Analysis in order to determine the best method for achieving these
goals.  Additionally, while PBGC understands that it is not currently positioned to take best advantage of outsourcing, cloud computing or other
similar initiatives, it does believe that the next stage of PBGC’s IT infrastructure evolution should move PBGC towards being able to take
advantage of these industry practices, at least in phases. Finally, OIT intends to evaluate the possibility of recompeting its current primary
IT infrastructure operations and maintenance support contract.

In addition to inputs that may be proposed by the offeror, OIT will require the offeror to consider the following inputs:

    • FY2009 Outsourcing as-is assessment and alternative analysis

    • FY2009 Oracle Assessment & Oracle Short Term project artifacts

    • Segment Architectures

    • Business areas’ alternative analyses

    • Current PBGC OMB Exhibits 300 and 53

    • Enterprise Security Corrective Action Plan (CAP)

    • Current hardware/software inventory state

    • Current state of infrastructure services, processes & documentation

    • Planned infrastructure upgrades

    • Current infrastructure project information

    • Government requirements and initiatives:

         • FDCC & PBGC’s current state

         • Green Computing & PBGC to be reported information

         • HSPD-12

         • Federal Data Center Consolidation & PBGC to be reported information

         • Trusted Internet Connection (TIC)

         • Proposal for 1200K Data Center generator

In addition to outputs that may be proposed by the offeror, as well as the specific OMB Exhibit 300 IT Infrastructure Alternatives Analysis
document, OIT expects to gain the following knowledge through this analysis:

    • Recommended target IT Infrastructure architecture

    • Draft IT infrastructure services catalog with prospective performance measures

    • A sequencing plan for IT infrastructure transformation that also considers business system upgrades

    • Data provided to update/revise other PBGC OMB Exhibit 300s that may be impacted by proposed alternative

    • Data relevant to the infrastructure support requirements for the Enterprise Security CAP

    • Data relevant to the possible recompete of the primary IT infrastructure operations and maintenance support contract


C.3   PURPOSE

The objective of this effort is to acquire an outside source with expertise and core capabilities in detailed Alternatives Analysis and
Comparative Benefit Cost Analysis techniques and methodologies. The contractor shall perform detailed Alternatives Analysis and Comparative
Benefit Cost Analysis in support of the IT Infrastructure Investment planning and decision making process, as required in OMB Circulars A-11 and
A-94.  The resulting outputs of these activities, including the outputs listed in C.2 above, will be used as support documentation inputs for
making go/no-go decisions for investment

OIT Infrastructure is defined as:
      1) Technology (what do we have and what does it do);
      2) Operations (how effectively are we operating and managing it);
      3) Services (how we perform in servicing our customers); and
      4) Costs (what is the cost of our current technology mix, operations and services).

The contract will consist of a single base period not to exceed five (5) months.  The offeror may propose a period of performance as long as as
it does not exceed five (5) months from date of contract award. OIT has established a team of expert advisors to support this alternative
analysis. The Alternatives Analysis contractor will be a member of the team and, throughout the engagement, will work collaboratively with the
other Team members. The Alternatives Analysis includes PBGC policy, program, technical, acquisition and legal staff. Each expert has roles,
responsibilities and authorities.

Each expert has roles, responsibilities and authorities.  They include the PBGC team leads from the areas of: Service Desk; Change and Release
Management; Test and Development Center Management; IT Asset and Configuration Management; the Oracle, Unix and Linux team; the Network,
Telecommunications and Data Center team; the Platforms and Messaging team and the Security and COOP team.

The Alternatives Analysis contractor will be precluded from bidding on any resulting RFPs that may be developed as a direct result of this
Alternatives Analysis.

C.4   CURRENT ENVIRONMENT

PBGC’s IT Program adheres to legislative requirements and administrative mandates, and follows guidance and best practices recommended by the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Government Accountability Office (GAO), National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST), and
the Federal CIO Council.

 • The PBGC staff consists of approximately 870 federal employees and 1,350 contract employees.  Approximately 1,785 staff members work at the
   agency’s primary facility at 1200 K Street, NW, in Washington, D.C., in satellite offices nearby (1275 K Street and 1225 I Street) or in
   Kingstowne, VA.

      o The Headquarters campus network is comprised of multiple LANs in three buildings: the main headquarters at 1200 K Street, and two nearby
        buildings at 1275 K Street and 1225 I Street.  Dark fiber operating at 10Gbit/sec connects the three buildings. All LANs are fully-
        switched 100-MBit Ethernet to the desktop, with 1 or 10 Gigabit backbones and Gigabit server connections

      o Approximately 400 contractor employees work in 8 Field Benefit Administration (FBA) offices located throughout the United States.  FBAs
        are contractor-run operations that support the PBGC in its role as trustee for terminated pension plans and in performing benefits
        administration for the majority of the PBGC’s participants. Several FBA contractors have information technology positions that perform
        additional duties such as assessing connectivity problems; diagnosing, repairing and replacing desktop equipment; and providing
        technical assistance for hardware and software problems and issues.  The FBA office spaces are managed by PBGC and PBGC owns all of the
        FBA equipment used to perform PBGC work. FBA or actuarial sites may be added or removed based on changing business requirements.

      o PBGC’s paying agent is State Street Corporation, a commercial bank in Boston.

      o PBGC is supported by a number of actuarial consultants with two offices in Washington, DC; one office in Vienna, VA; one office in
        Reston, VA and one office in Cleveland, OH. These consultants provide their own IT Support.

      o PBGC is supported by a separate contractor that provides mass mailing services from the Fulfillment House located in Woodbridge, VA.

      o PBGC is also supported by a separate contractor responsible for Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance Services (O&M).

      o The organization of PBGC can be found at http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/org_chart.pdf.  Further information for each department can be found
        at http://www.pbgc.gov/workers-retirees/about-pbgc/content/page14552.html.

 • Internet connectivity is provided, through the STARS contract, by Global Reliance Communications. OC-3 links at the HQ and Wilmington
   Continuity of Operations (COOP) facilities. PBGC operates public-facing web servers and also remote access facilities at both of these
   locations. Applied Data provides dark fiber between 1200 K Street and 1275 K Street through a direct contract.

 • The PBGC WAN is comprised of MPLS circuits. FBA and Actuarial sites use Sprint or MPLS nxT1 circuits to connect to the HQ and Wilmington sites
   via incoming T3s at those sites. There is an OC-12 link between HQ and Wilmington, and an OC-3 between Wilmington and Kingstowne, both
   provided by Global Reliance Communications. A Verizon Transparent LAN Service (TLS) link at 100Mbit/sec connects Kingstowne to HQ, in addition
   to local calling services, all under the Washington Interagency Telecommunications Services (WITS) contract.  Sprint also provides WAN router
   management.  Quest provides 800 number toll free service.  Sprint and Quest services are provided under the Networx contract.

 • The Kingstowne site, which for normal operations houses the Contact Center and the Benefit and Payment Department (BAPD) Document Management
   Center, has normal staffing of about 150 personnel. In the event of a COOP event, the location becomes the Emergency Relocation Site for
   critical headquarters staff.

 • PBGC maintains logically separate network environments for development, testing, production and continuity of operations.

    o The Common Development Environment (CDE) provides an area for development and interoperability testing that is isolated from production and
      other environments. The CDE provides the capability to develop major applications, which support PBGC’s changing business needs. The
      environment allows PBGC to take advantage of emerging technologies and to improve the exchange of data with internal and external
      customers. The CDE is currently comprised of two separate areas (CDE-T and CDE-I);

    o The CDE-T is the “Team-Specific” area, used for code development, COTS configuration and unit testing of development efforts.

    o The CDE-I is the “Interoperability” area, used for various phases of testing (functional, system, integration, performance, and deployment)
      of future integrated releases. The CDE-I is further broken down into two sub-areas – “As Is” and “To Be.”

        o The “As Is” area reflects the current production environment and is used for testing against applications that currently exist in
          production. This area may be used for supporting production, emergency fixes, and point releases. Currently this area also serves as
          the training environment for custom developed applications.

        o The “To Be” area reflects the future production environment and is used for testing against the applications that will be deployed in
          the next major software release.

 • The Integration and Testing Center (ITC) environment has been established as the physical facility located at 1275K 9th Floor for Deployment
   Verification, Development Shakedown, System Integration Verification and, Performance Verification.  Security Scan also performs in ITC.  User
   Acceptance Testing and Training can be performed in ITC when needed.  ITC is split into two areas:  ITC-P and ITC-D.  ITC-P has the same
   functions as CDE-I TO-BE while the ITC-D environment provides Infrastructure Operations team a sandbox to test patches, server settings etc
   before the changes made to production.

 • The production environment (PROD) provides support to business operations including replication of software and data to the COOP site with
   similar hardware. The production environment includes a sub-environment for the Training Center. The training sub-environment provides part of
   a representation of the production environment (e.g., applications and databases) and firewalls to prevent activity performed in the sub-
   environment from interfacing with the production environment.

• The COOP environment provides redundancy for the production environment and facilitates the continuation of business activities in the event
  of a disruption to the production environment. Failover is to PBGC’s servers at Wilmington, DE, which has similar cache boxes and web switches
  with server health monitoring and failover.

• PBGC maintains multiple Storage Area Networks (SANs) to provide high volume file and data storage.  The SANs include a multitude of components
  such as racks, hard drives, array controllers, switches, shelves, fiber and/or SCSI cables, power supplies within the cabinets, power
  distribution units (PDU), and host bus adapters.  The current SAN technology consists of DAS (Direct Attached Storage) for Exchange, Hitachi
  USPVM (Universal Storage Platform VM) for Oracle, SQL and VMware for production and COOP environment, AMS1000 (Adaptable Modular Storage) for
  IPS application and home and share drive file and print servers for production and COOP environment and for Test and Development environment,
  OIT currently uses a Hitachi/SUN 9980 for Oracle, SQL and VMware and SUN 6130 for VMware. All SANs are configured with as many redundant
  components as possible (e.g., dual controllers) to ensure as little downtime as possible.  All of these components comprise the physical
  structure of the SANs to provide access to the data.

• PBGC server operating systems include Windows, Solaris, UNIX, Linux, VMware and Netware. Netware servers are being phased-out of the
  environment except for approximately five (5) network servers that will remain to support three (3) legacy applications in the Financial
  Operations department.  PBGC’s server and workstation inventory is distributed throughout the production, CDE, ITC and COOP environments and
  is comprised as follows: 13 Unix servers hosting corporate databases; 58 Solaris servers hosting corporate applications; 104 Linux servers
  hosting corporate applications; 236 Wintel servers hosting file, print and other users or application services; 180 virtual Wintel servers
  supporting development and application services; 2687 physical workstations and 68 virtual workstations.

 • PBGC uses Oracle (currently 10g) as the standard database. PBGC also maintains MS SQL 2008 databases. A small number of COTS products use a
   proprietary database which interfaces with Oracle.

 • PBGC uses Oracle AS (currently 10g) as the standard application server. PBGC also maintains an IBM FileNet technology stack.

 • Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control is utilized for central monitoring and administration of the Oracle systems.

 • JAVA is the development language of choice. Some .Net and other apps are also maintained.  Web-based thin client W3C compliant browser based n-
   tier apps are the standard.  Oracle APEX and JDeveloper are the recommended IDEs where appropriate.

 • OIT supports PBGC business functions through a number of core business applications, both custom and commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), and
   numerous supporting applications (word processing, spreadsheet, graphics, email, browser, portal and other software), communications
   connectivity, and a set of hardware and software platforms (such as Oracle database, Oracle middle tier and Oracle Application servers, Oracle
   Applications/EBusiness suite, desktop workstations, and portable devices).

 • Core business applications presently use a mix of Web-based thin client W3C compliant browser based n-tier apps, client/server and service-
   based architectures. Several of these applications are electronic-mail enabled. All current EA-compliant development is service-oriented with
   browser-based user interfaces. COTS and custom software applications are deployed from servers using Altiris.

 • PBGC network uses Oracle OID/SSO, Microsoft’s Active Directory Service for Windows 2003, Microsoft Exchange 2008 for email with Ironport and
   Brightmail SPAM filtering with Microsoft ForeFront for electronic mail anti-virus protection, Microsoft XP SP2 workstations with Symantec Anti-
   Virus, and Blackberry portable devices. The network includes “lettered” drives that support administrative uses and personal file and data
   storage and retrieval.

 • PBGC supports secure remote access to networked resources via the Internet using Juniper Secure Remote Access and Microsoft Terminal Services
   (Remote Desktop) from Windows client PCs.

 • PBGC provides Internet email capability for end users through its internal mail system, and access to the World Wide Web via Sprintlink with
   MS Internet Explorer at the desktop. PBGC maintains a web site (http://www.pbgc.gov) that is available to the general public via the Internet.
   PBGC also maintains an Intranet and a Portal.

 • PBGC’s equipment for personal computing consists of Intel and AMD workstations, laptop computers, a small number of Macintosh workstations,
   network printers, non-networked printers, and other peripherals. The AMD and Intel-based personal computers (PCs) use Windows XP SP2 as their
   primary operating systems. PBGC uses the Microsoft Office 2007 Suite of applications as the primary set of desktop tools.  In addition, other
   business units utilize WordPerfect, Lotus spreadsheet and Lotus Notes. The PCs are used to run COTS software and PBGC custom-built
   applications.

 • PBGC utilizes Polytron Version Control System (PVCS) as a code and controlled documentation repository for tracking changes; managing
   migration of software among environments; and organizing, managing and protecting software assets across distributed development teams.

 • Altiris Client Management Suite Notification Server is used for delivery and deployment of most PBGC applications. Some of the applications
   are included in the standard workstation image or standard installation of Windows Terminal Servers. Workstation imaging is managed through
   the Altiris Client Management Suite Deployment Solution.

 • PBGC utilizes HP OpenView Service Manager 7 for incident, problem, change and configuration management.

 • PBGC uses HP (Service Manager 7and Novell ZenWorks Asset Management to provide IT asset management capability.

 • PBGC uses Primavera project and portfolio management system as a central repository for tracking and reporting project data. EA information is
   in the custom developed EA Repository (EAR).

 • PBGC maintains a Microsoft Enterprise Agreement with features that include software licensing, access to Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN),
   on-line support with Microsoft technicians; Microsoft certified training opportunities, access to high priority technical support, HotFix,
   error reporting and other capabilities. PBGC has also entered into enterprise agreements for a number of other key COTS products.

 • Storage/backup and restore—PBGC SAN environment provides support for its production and test environments. The Hitachi USP-VM SAN provides the
   agency with production access to home, application, and shared drive access (Microsoft file system), and database access (via Microsoft SQL
   2008 and Oracle).  The network file systems that connect to the Hitachi USP-VM include Unix, Linux, and Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 servers.
   The Hitachi USP-VM SAN replicates production data to the COOP site in Wilmington to another Hitachi USP-VM SAN.  There are approximately 130
   terabytes of raw storage space available across all environments.

 • The test environments provide solution implementers an area to develop code and test applications prior to an application deployment to the
   production SAN. The Common Development Environment (CDE) and Integration Testing Center (ITC) has a set of SANs that provide testing and code
   development. The CDE and ITC utilizes 2 SUN 9980 SANs.  There are 2 StorageTek 6130 SANs and 3 StorageTek 6320 SANs in these environments that
   are phasing out.

 • Replication:  The AMS1000 contains local snapshots of the home and share file services, while asynchronously replicating to Wilmington.  The
   application file service is asynchronously replicated to Wilmington by Microsoft DFS-R (Distributed File System Replication).  The Oracle
   databases on the SUN servers are replicated using Data Guard.  The redo log of Oracle databases are replicated to the Wilmington COOP servers
   as soon as the redo log is created. Microsoft Exchange 2007 is configured to user Microsoft Exchange 2007 Cluster Continuous Replication (CCR)
   mailbox servers connected to direct attached storage.  The transaction log of the Exchange server asynchronously replicates to the Wilmington
   mailbox server.  PBGC has one CCR cluster to provide high availability of 3000 mailboxes.  The cluster nodes are geographically dispersed in
   headquarters and Wilmington data centers.

 • Corporate (HQ) Backup Systems:  The main PBGC backup systems are located at the Corporate office in Washington, DC. This location is commonly
   called HQ or HQW.

      o Software: HQ uses Symantec (formerly Veritas) NetBackup 6.5 Enterprise backup software running on Windows 2003 servers with three
        robotic tape systems.

         • There is one Windows 2003 NetBackup master server.

         • There are three Windows 2003 NetBackup media servers.

      o Hardware:  HQ has two tape libraries and a tape library emulator. The emulator uses hard drives as “tape” cartridges, providing
        significant performance improvement for backups and for file restores.

        The robots and media servers are interconnected with a small Storage Area Network (SAN). The NetBackup Shared Storage option allows any
        media server to work with any robot or drive.

        There are two Quantum M-2500 tape libraries with six Super DLT 1 drives and 63 slots.

         • There is one Quantum DX-5000 tape emulator with six tape drives. “Tapes” made on this system are copied to physical tapes during the
           day.

         • The Shared Storage Option allows all robotic devices to work with any media server.

 • Remote Site Backups: A number of remote offices have their own backup systems using NetBackup Server 6.5.  Several smaller sites are supported
   directly from HQ.

      o FBA Sites: Field Benefit Administrator (FBA) sites provide support for pensioners in a number of localities. The FBA sites have
        NetBackup Server installed on their file/ print servers.

      o Kingstowne Hot site: The Kingstowne tele-work site is located in Alexandria, VA.  Kingstowne was once configured similarly to the FBA
        sites; however, it is currently operated with servers at HQ. The legacy backup histories are stored on the SAN at HQ.

      o Wilmington COOP site: The Wilmington FBA site also serves as a Continuity of Operations (COOP) site.  In the event the Washington DC
        area becomes unavailable, operations would be shifted to the COOP site. Wilmington has a full-sized backup system featuring a Quantum M-
        2500 robot with six drives and 63 slots. Backups of the FBA servers are run regularly.

      o COOP Backups: Backups of the COOP servers are not run at present. These servers contain data replicated from HQ.

 • Remote Offices (WAN Sites): Two remote offices are supported from HQ, with weekly full backups run over-the-wire from HQ. These sites do not
   have PBGC staff available to change tapes or work with backup equipment.

      o Woodbridge – Fulfillment House - south of Washington

      o Quincy   – The State Street Bank in Quincy, MA, near Boston.



C.5   CONSTRAINTS

Compliance with Enterprise Architecture (EA)

The alternatives provided by the contractor shall adhere to and comply with the Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA).  The contractor may
recommend changes to PBGC’s Enterprise Architecture (EA) in support of a recommended alternative. Those changes must demonstrably assist in
bringing the PBGC EA Blueprint more in compliance with the various reference models that comprise the FEA.  Information regarding the FEA can be
obtained at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/egov/a-2-EAModelsNEW2.html.

Compliance with Government Regulations and Standards

The contractor shall be responsible for compliance with applicable Federal Government regulations and standards. These include:

    • Office of Management and the Budget (OMB) guidelines for system security and internal controls, the Government Paperwork Elimination Act,
      standards from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Section 508 of the American with Disabilities Act, and PBGC
      regulations such as the PBGC Information Assurance Handbook (IAH).

    • OMB Circular A-11 Part 7:  The contractor shall adhere to OMB Circular A-11 Part 7 in providing input for the Exhibit 300.  Please see
      http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/.


    • OMB Circular A-94: The contractor shall adhere to OMB Circular A-94 in providing benefit cost analysis. Please see
      http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/.


C.6   PROJECT MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES

6.1 The contractor’s Project Manager will be responsible for the following:

    • Maintaining project communication throughout the project.
    • Provide a final revised work plan for review and approval within seven (7) days of kick off meeting.
    • Working with the OIT Project Manager to update the work plan as needed.
    • Working with the OIT Project Manager to report progress on the project.
    • Working with the OIT Project Manager to resolve deviations from the agreed upon work plan.
    • Working with the OIT Project Manager to coordinate and manage activities of the team.
    • Submitting project deliverables to the OIT Project Manager or designee for review, approval, and signature.
    • Securing and protecting Government-furnished property or information provided in connection with this contract.
    • Attending project review and update meetings as requested.
    • Completing and submitting weekly status reports; the weekly status reports include, at a minimum:
         – Activities and accomplishments during the past period
         – Activities planned for this and the next week
         – Milestones impact
         – Issues and risk matrix
         – % complete by task
         –
6.2 The work plan must include the following elements at a minimum:
    • Be organized by Phase
    • Address who will do each work activity
    • When the work activity will be accomplished
    • All required services (provided in Section C) including deliverables (provided in Section F)
    • Alternative Analysis Contractor’s process/milestones for each of the services and deliverables
    • Regular meetings
    • Approach to supporting the OMB 300 documentation requirements



6.3 In support of the project manager responsibilities, the Contractor is expected to complete the Alternatives Analysis project in accordance
with PBGC Information Technology Solutions Life Cycle Methodology (ITSLCM). As such, they shall furnish the following document:


         o Project Management Plan: The Project Management Plan (PMP) shall include roles, responsibilities and any other management plans such
           as risk, scope, etc as appropriate.


         o Artifact Review and Signoff Worksheet: Document listing all artifacts to be delivered by the project cross-referenced against the
           names of the person(s) responsible for peer reviewing, providing feedback and signoff for each project artifact.


         o Project Modification Requests: Form used to document changes to project scope, cost and schedule. This document will be created only
           if there are changes to one of the triple constraints mentioned above.


         o Corrective Action Plan: It will be used when a target milestone has not been met and to define a plan of action for getting the
           project back on track.


         o Meeting Minutes/Agendas: This document will be used to capture meeting agendas, attendees, meeting highlights, meeting outcomes and
           meeting action items.


         o Project Status Reports: These will be used to communicate project status to management and staff. They will include:

              a. Project status reports
              b. Steering committee briefing / Project sponsor reports
              c. EVM report


         o Approval Form: Approval form that documents all project deliverables that were completed as part of the project and documents the
           date of each deliverable.


         o Lessons Learned: Documents the outcome of a Lessons Learned session that captures project information, documents what worked and what
           needs improvement, recommendations for what should continue to be followed and what should be changed in the future projects.

6.4 The following performance standards are applicable to all phases of the contract:

|Required Services                |Performance Standards                     |Acceptable Quality Level            |Monitoring                |
|                                 |                                          |(AQL)/Deviation                     |                          |
|Prepare work plan and schedule.  |Accurately captures all planned           |No deviation.                       |Weekly project review.    |
|                                 |activities, timeline, staffing, and cost. |                                    |                          |
|                                 |                                          |                                    |                          |
|                                 |Will be updated to reflect all changes    |                                    |                          |
|                                 |within 2 days of approval.                |No deviation without OIT Project    |                          |
|                                 |                                          |Manager approval.                   |                          |
|Prepare and submit required      |All deliverables are submitted within     |No deviation without OIT Project    |Deliverable acceptance.   |
|outputs/deliverables.            |agreed upon timeframes.                   |Manager approval.                   |                          |
|                                 |                                          |                                    |                          |
|                                 |All deliverables are complete and accurate|No deviation.                       |                          |
|                                 |such that they can be used without        |                                    |                          |
|                                 |substantial revision.                     |                                    |                          |
|Provide qualified staff for all  |All personnel shall meet or exceed        |No deviation.                       |Ability to meet quality   |
|phases.                          |applicable requirements to fulfill their  |                                    |and timeliness standards  |
|                                 |roles.                                    |                                    |of outputs/ deliverables. |
|Perform tasks within schedule.   |Deliver tasks within agreed upon schedule.|No deviation without OIT Project    |Monthly reports; Schedule |
|                                 |                                          |Manager approval.                   |reports, dashboard, etc.  |
|Respond to requested changes.    |All requested changes (staffing, schedule,|No deviation without COTR approval. |OIT Project manager       |
|                                 |scope, cost, etc) will be addressed within|                                    |review;                   |
|                                 |2 working days of request.                |                                    |Deliverable review.       |
|Effectively Manage Risks.        |All identified risks will be reported to  |No deviation.                       |OIT Project manager       |
|                                 |the Government.  Mitigation strategies    |                                    |review; Weekly report     |
|                                 |will be recommended for all reported      |                                    |provided by the Sourcing  |
|                                 |risks.                                    |                                    |Advisor contractor.       |
|                                 |                                          |                                    |                          |
|                                 |All approved mitigations will be          |                                    |                          |
|                                 |implemented.                              |                                    |                          |
|                                 |                                          |                                    |                          |


C.7   SCOPE OF WORK

All activities are to be an iterative process with OIT involvement to include the Alternatives Analysis contractor participation in meetings and
work sessions with the OIT Alternatives Analysis team members who include representatives from legal, contracting, federal acquisition policy
and subject matter experts as needed.

OIT Infrastructure is defined as:
      1) Technology (what do we have and what does it do);
      2) Operations (how effectively are we operating and managing it);
      3) Services (how we perform in servicing our customers); and
      4) Costs (what is the cost of our current technology mix, operations and services).

Initially, the Alternatives Analysis contractor will conduct an assessment of PBGC’s “As Is” IT Infrastructure and will consume the inputs
listed in C.2.

OIT will provide information to include budget, costs, services, equipment, operating procedures and policies, and the results of prior and
ongoing assessment activities. The contractor is expected to validate data, with the exception of physical asset counts.

For planning level-of-effort purposes, anticipate interviews with approximately 50 individuals and second interviews/follow-up with 25 of the 50
individuals.  This can be accomplished through one-on-one meetings, workshops, and/or other means proposed by the contractor.

7.1 Provide and apply a methodology to identify and define the “As Is” IT infrastructure:

      1) Technology (what do we have and what does it do);
      2) Operations (how effectively are we operating and managing it);
      3) Services (how we perform in supporting our customers); and
      4) Costs (what is the cost of our current technology mix, operations and services).

The “As Is” methodology shall

    • Capture or describe PBGC’s Washington campus as well as COOP, Field Benefit Administration (FBA), and other external sites (see C.4 Current
      Environment).

    • Aggregate any and all information and gathering information in the format needed to compare OIT’s “As Is” state to industry best practices.



    • Include a baseline of the infrastructure components including, at a minimum, all servers, workstations, routers, switches, circuits, cable
      plants, databases and environments necessary to provide a comprehensive infrastructure topology.

    • Validate that documentation provided by OIT accurately reflects the “As Is” state; to include papers describing the “As Is” state, policies
      and procedures, and reports (but not physical equipment counts)

    • Include, but not be limited to:

         – ITIL process implementation assessment for IT functions and processes
         – IT business continuity/disaster recovery process assessment
         – IT assets and data center facilities assessment
         – Legal and Federal Government requirements to include but not be limited to financial funding requirements and unique security
           requirements

    • Ensure the infrastructure can be evaluated for: intended and actual uses, available and current utilization, the IT service(s) supported by
      component, and an objective evaluation of the effectiveness of the support provided by the component, where possible to so evaluate.

|Deliverables                                                                                                                |
|Documented proposed methodology for the “As Is” state to include:                                                           |
|Data gathering strategy,                                                                                                    |
|Data elements to be collected, and                                                                                          |
|Information gathering tools—e.g., templates.                                                                                |


7.2 Conduct the “As Is” Assessment of OIT’s Infrastructure

Conduct an “As Is” Assessment of OIT’s IT infrastructure applying the methodology approved in C.7.1, above.

|Deliverables                                                                                                                |
|“As Is” Assessment, including an executive summary                                                                          |
|Electronic copy of all data collected and/or used in the “As Is” Assessment                                                 |


7.3 Compare OIT “As Is” State to Industry Best Practices and Metrics

Assess and compare OIT’s infrastructure to the relevant industry best practices and metrics to support the development of alternatives. This
analysis will prepare the input for the Exhibit 300 and serve as the basis of the justification for the recommended alternative.


Define the gaps between the “As Is” state and relevant industry best practices and metrics above.

|Deliverables                                                                                                                |
|Gap Analysis report describing where the “As Is” does not meet industry best practices and metrics, including a description |
|of the best practices and metrics comparison standard/data and an executive summary.                                        |


7.4 Conduct the Alternatives Analysis and Provide a Recommended Alternative.

Develop and analyze alternatives to fill the gaps identified and recommend a preferred alternative.

The alternatives developed must:

    • Include a minimum of four (4) viable options to meet OMB Circular A-11 Exhibit 300 (www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/) requirements. One
      alternative must be the status quo with strengths and weaknesses.  For informational purposes only, PBGC suggests review of the Department
      of Treasury Alternatives Analysis Policy Guide, which can be found at http://colab.cim3.net/file/work/CPIC/AA%20Policy%20Guide.May07.doc.

      Consider, in the evaluation of the various approaches and sources that could provide infrastructure support, the provision of the
      infrastructure support available from other Government agencies. See OMB web site for Lines of Services.  Also consider Administration
      guidance on cloud and green computing.

      For example, PBGC receives:
         – Payroll services are provided by the National Business Center, Department of the Interior.
         – Security validation services are provided by Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Assert application.

    • Include the following components, at a minimum:
         – “As Is” infrastructure status
         – Five year projections of each alternative
         – Includes a cloud component(s) within at least one alternative
         – Fully loaded cost components to include direct costs, in-direct costs, FTE’s
         – Benchmark comparisons
         – Infrastructure/asset projections
         – Performance measures and/or market benchmarks
         – Risks and mitigation strategies
         – All legal and Federal Government requirements for IT Infrastructure Services including, but not limited to funding and security
           requirements and the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)
         – Description of the alternative solutions considered for accomplishing the strategic goals for PBGC’s IT Infrastructure investment.
         – Proposed solution for closing the performance gap that the investment is expected to address.
         – The specification of all assumptions, ground rules, and constraints, assumed or imposed, underlying the analysis.  They must each be
           explained with adequate rationale.
         – Summary of the results of the feasibility/performance/benefits analysis, with comparisons of the returns/benefits (financial and
           other) for each alternative.
         – Summary of the market research that was conducted to identify innovative solutions for this investment (e.g., used an RFI to obtain
           four different solutions to evaluate, held open meetings with contractors to discuss investment scope, etc.).
         – Assumptions used to make estimates such as, past or current contract prices for similar work, (e.g., contractor provided estimates
           from RFIs or meetings, general market publications, etc.).
         – Summary of the results of the lifecycle cost analysis performed for each alternative and the underlying assumptions.
         – Justification for the selected alternatives.
         – Risk and uncertainty analyses identifying any circumstances which could affect a course of action.
         – Key limitations in terms of elements that were excluded.
         – Details of any quantitative benefits anticipated to be achieved for each alternative (e.g., systems savings, cost avoidance,
           stakeholder benefits, etc), including a financial summary of the Cost Benefit Analysis.
         – Summary of the qualitative benefits expected from the investment.
         – Non-Recurring Costs
         – Recurring Costs
         – Total Cost
         – Investment Life Costs
         – Present Value Cost
         – Residual Value Estimate
         – Adjusted Cost
         – Net Present Value
         – Benefit/Cost Ratio
         – Payback Period
         – Date of the analysis.
|Deliverables                                                                                                                |
|A document containing comprehensive list of data elements and sources used in the creation of an OMB 300 risk-adjusted      |
|Alternatives Analysis, presenting alternatives and recommended solution options for IT infrastructure in compliance with    |
|Federal agency requirements.                                                                                                |
|Formal Alternatives Analysis document as well as separate documents detailing the Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA), Work         |
|Breakdown Structure (WBS) and inputs into the IT Infrastructure Risk Management Plan and the Alternatives Analysis section  |
|of the IT Infrastructure Exhibit 300 document.                                                                              |
|To the extent that the Alternatives Analysis document does NOT address the following, a separate document or documents will |
|be delivered that include(s):                                                                                               |
|Recommended target IT Infrastructure architecture                                                                           |
|Draft IT infrastructure services catalog with prospective performance measures                                              |
|A sequencing plan for IT infrastructure transformation that also considers business system upgrades                         |
|Data provided to update/revise other PBGC OMB Exhibit 300s that may be impacted by proposed alternative                     |
|Data relevant to the infrastructure support requirements for the Enterprise Security CAP                                    |
|Data relevant to the possible recompete of the primary IT infrastructure operations and maintenance support contract        |

                                                                    SECTION D
                                                              PACKAGING AND MARKING



D.1   PBGC-11-004 PACKAGING AND MARKING (OCT 2004)

The Contractor is responsible for the cost of all packing, packaging and mailing in accordance with the best commercial practices.  All
information submitted to the Contracting Officer or the COTR must be clearly marked with the company name, the PBGC contract number, and
identification of the item.

                                                                    SECTION E

E.1   52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES—FIXED PRICE (AUG 1996)
(Reference)


E.3   PBGC-46-001 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF DELIVERABLES (OCT 2004)

All deliverable items are to be furnished to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or to PBGC personnel designated by the
COTR to receive a specific deliverable.

PBGC's receipt of a deliverable does not constitute acceptance by the Government.  Final acceptance of any reports or other deliverable items
required under this contract will be made in writing and may only be made by the COTR or Contracting Officer.

                                                                    SECTION F
                                                            DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

F.1   PBGC-11-009   PLACE OF DELIVERY (OCT 2004)

All contract deliverables shall be delivered to the COTR.

F.2   PBGC-45-001   GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION, ASSISTANCE AND/OR EQUIPMENT (OCT 2004)

a. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) will furnish an initial briefing to appropriate contractor personnel in order to provide
background on corporation policies and procedures.  The briefing will be conducted by qualified PBGC staff members who will also be available to
the contractor on an ongoing basis for consultation and guidance as needed.  The initial briefing will be held at 1200 K Street, Washington, DC.
 The briefing will be conducted within 30 days following contract award.
b. PBGC will furnish, at the COTR's discretion, and to the extent available, copies of regulations, procedures, policies, other materials,
administrative support and/or equipment necessary for the contractor to perform the work required by this contract.

F.3   PBGC-11-005   PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 2004)

The Base period of performance (POP) shall not exceed five (5) months from date of contract award.

F.4   PBGC-11-006   PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 2004)

Work under this contract will be performed either at the contractor’s site or various PBGC locations .  The place of performance will be based
on project need and efficiency.
F.5   SCHEDULE OF DELIVERABLES
All deliverables will be provided to the Government in draft form for comment and approval.  Revised drafts are due to the Government within 5
days of receipt of Government comments unless otherwise noted or agreed to.  Final documents are not actionable until authority to proceed is
provided by the Government.
These outputs/deliverables provide the offeror with PBGC’s expectations.  Offerors are to propose deliverables consistent with their approach
and experience taking into consideration PBGC’s status as a federal entity.  If offerors propose any alternative deliverables, these are to be
presented in the Technical Approach and are subject to discussion, if any.  Deliverables are to be incorporated into the proposed Draft Work
Plan and the due dates are to be added by the offeror*.

|RFP Section       |Output/Deliverables                                                        |Due Date                      |
|Project Manager Activities                                                                                                   |
|6.3               |Final work plan                                                            |7 days from kick off meeting  |
|6.2               |Weekly activity reports                                                    |Weekly                        |
|6.3               |Updated work plan                                                          |As needed                     |
|Phase 1 – Discovery and Strategy Development                                                                                 |
|7.1               |Documented “As Is” methodology to include:                                 |In Accordance With (IAW)      |
|                  |Documented data gathering strategy                                         |contractor’s work plan        |
|                  |List and description of data elements to be collected                      |Schedule*                     |
|                  |Information gathering tools                                                |                              |
|7.2               |“As Is” Assessment, including an executive summary                         |IAW work plan                 |
|7.2               |Electronic copy of all data collected and/or used in the “As Is” Assessment|IAW work plan                 |
|7.3               |Gap Analysis report describing where the “As Is” does not meet industry    |IAW work plan                 |
|                  |best practices and metrics, including a description of the best practices  |                              |
|                  |ad metrics comparison standard/data and an executive summary               |                              |
|7.4               |A document containing comprehensive list of data elements and sources used |IAW work plan                 |
|                  |in the creation of an OMB 300 risk-adjusted Alternatives Analysis,         |                              |
|                  |presenting alternatives and recommended solution options for IT            |                              |
|                  |infrastructure in compliance with Federal agency requirements              |                              |
|7.4               |Formal Alternatives Analysis document as well as separate documents        |IAW work plan                 |
|                  |detailing the Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA), Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)  |                              |
|                  |and inputs into the IT Infrastructure Risk Management Plan and the         |                              |
|                  |Alternatives Analysis section of the IT Infrastructure Exhibit 300 document|                              |
|7.4               |To the extent that the Alternatives Analysis document does NOT address the |IAW work plan                 |
|                  |following, a separate document or documents will be delivered that         |                              |
|                  |include(s):                                                                |                              |
|                  |• Recommended target IT Infrastructure architecture                        |                              |
|                  |• Draft IT infrastructure services catalog with prospective performance    |                              |
|                  |measures                                                                   |                              |
|                  |• A sequencing plan for IT infrastructure transformation that also         |                              |
|                  |considers business system upgrades                                         |                              |
|                  |• Data provided to update/revise other PBGC OMB Exhibit 300s that may be   |                              |
|                  |impacted by proposed alternative                                           |                              |
|                  |• Data relevant to the infrastructure support requirements for the         |                              |
|                  |Enterprise Security CAP                                                    |                              |
|                  |• Data relevant to the possible recompete of the primary IT infrastructure |                              |
|                  |operations and maintenance support contract                                |                              |


                                                                    SECTION G
                                                             CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION



G.1   PBGC-42-001 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (OCT 2004)


The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) TBD. who may be reached TBD.  The COTR is authorized to assist in monitoring the work
under this contract.  The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison with the contractor. The
COTR IS NOT authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in the contract, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate
the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions.

The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds.  The
technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions of this contract.  Any
such revision shall be authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.
The COTR is authorized to review and recommend approval of:

(a) Technical matters not involving a change in scope, price, terms and conditions of the contract
(b) Progress reports
(c) Inspection and acceptance of services and deliverable products and
(d) Invoices.

The COTR is not authorized to sign any contractual instruments or to direct any action that results in a change in the scope, price, terms or
condition of the contract.


G.2   PBGC-42-002   OBSERVANCE OF LEGAL HOLIDAYS (OCT 2004)


The Contractor shall establish a holiday schedule for personnel performing under this contract that exactly coincides with the Government's
schedule. Holidays peculiar to or dynamically declared by the Government shall be considered as holidays for Contractor personnel and are not
billable unless work is actually performed on these days.  No work will be performed by Contractor personnel on Government holidays without
prior approval of the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative.  Work performed on holidays shall be billable at the regular rate.

Government holidays are: (1) New Year's Day, (2) Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, (3) President's Day, (4) Memorial Day, (5) 4th of July, (6) Labor
Day, (7) Columbus Day, (8) Veteran's Day, (9) Thanksgiving Day, (10) Christmas Day (11) Any other day designated by Federal Statute, (12) Any
other day designated by Executive Order, (13) Any other day designated by the President's Proclamation.

                                                                    SECTION H


H.1   PBGC-00-001   PROFESSIONAL ATTIRE (OCT 2005)


The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation receives many visitors who conduct business with the Corporation. Consequently, the professional
appearance of those who work in PBGC facilities is important to maintaining confidence in PBGC and the pension insurance system.  The Contractor
shall ensure that its personnel who perform work in PBGC facilities present a neat, professional appearance appropriate to an office working
environment. Some examples of inappropriate office attire include jeans, sneakers, sweat pants, lycra stretch pants, collar-less shirts, bare
midriff tops, and spaghetti-strap tops.  The Contractor shall ensure that its personnel exercise sound judgment in their choice of attire.




H.2   PBGC-03-001   CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION (OCT 2004)


(a) To the extent that the work under this contract requires that the Contractor be given access to confidential or proprietary business,
technical, or financial information belonging to the Government or other companies, the Contractor shall, after receipt thereof, treat such
information as confidential and agree not to appropriate such information to its own use or to disclose such information to third parties unless
specifically authorized by the Contracting Officer in writing.  The foregoing obligations, however, shall not apply to:

(1) Information that, at the time of receipt by the Contractor, is in the public domain;

(2) Information that is published after receipt thereof by the Contractor or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of the
Contractor;

(3) Information that the Contractor can demonstrate was already in his possession at the time of receipt from PBGC and was not acquired directly
or indirectly from the Government or other companies;

(4) Information that the Contractor can demonstrate was received by it from a third party who did not require the Contractor to hold it in
confidence.

(b) The Contractor shall obtain the written agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Contracting Officer or his designee, of each employee
permitted access, whereby the employee agrees that he will not discuss, divulge or disclose any such information or data to any person or entity
except those persons within the Contractor's organization directly concerned with the performance of the contract.

(c) The Contractor agrees, if requested by the Government, to sign an agreement identical, in all material respects, to the provisions of this
clause, with each company supplying information to the Contractor under this contract, and to supply a copy of such agreement to the Contracting
Officer.  From time to time upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall supply the Government with reports itemizing
information received as confidential or proprietary and setting forth the company or companies from which the Contractor received such
information.

(d) The Contractor agrees that upon request by PBGC it will execute a PBGC-approved agreement with any party whose proprietary data it is given
access to or is furnished, restricting use and disclosure of the data. Upon request by PBGC, such an agreement shall also be signed by
Contractor personnel.

(e) This clause shall flow down to all subcontracts.




H.3   PBGC-03-002   ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCT 2004)


(a) Purpose. The purpose of this clause is to ensure that the contractor

(1) is not biased because of its financial,  contractual, organizational, or other interests which relate to the work under this contract, and
(2) does not obtain any unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of its performance of this contract.

(b) Scope. The restrictions described herein shall apply to performance or participation by the contractor and any of its partners, affiliates
or their successors in interest (after this collectively referred to as the "contractor") in the activities covered by this clause as a prime
contractor, subcontractor, cosponsor, joint venturer, consultant, or in any similar capacity. For the purpose of this clause, affiliation occurs
when a business concern is controlled by or has the power to control another or when a third party has the power to control both.

(1) Use of Contractor's Work Product. (i) The contractor shall be ineligible to participate in any capacity in PBGC contracts, subcontracts, or
proposals therefor (solicited and unsolicited) which stem directly from the contractor's performance of work under this contract. Furthermore,
unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, the contractor shall not perform any advisory and assistance services work under this
contract on any of its products or services or the products or services of another firm if the contractor is or has been substantially involved
in their development or marketing. Nothing in this subparagraph shall preclude the contractor from competing for follow-on contracts for
advisory and assistance services.

(ii) If, under this contract, the contractor prepares a complete, or essentially complete statement of work or specifications to be used in
competitive acquisitions, the contractor is ineligible to perform or participate in any capacity in any contractual effort which is based on
such statement of work or specifications. The contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or
specifications unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, in which case the restriction in this subparagraph shall not apply.

(iii) Nothing in this clause precludes the contractor from offering or selling its standard commercial items to the Government.

(2) Access to and use of information.

(i) If the contractor, in the performance of this contract, obtains access to information, such as Corporate plans, policies, reports, studies,
financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or data which has not been released or otherwise made
available to the public, the contractor agrees that without prior written approval of the Contracting Officer it shall not:

(A) use such information for any private purpose unless the information has been released or otherwise made available to the public;

(B) compete for work for PBGC based on such information for a period of six months after either the completion of this contract or until such
information is released or otherwise made available to the public, whichever is first;

(C) submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government which is based on such information until one year after such information is released or
otherwise made available to the public; and

(D) release such information unless such information has previously been released or otherwise made available to the public by PBGC.

(ii) In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, data protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974 or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information
in accordance with all restrictions imposed on disclosure and use of such information.

(c) Disclosure after award.

(1) The contractor agrees that if changes, including additions, to the facts disclosed by it prior to award of this contract, occur during the
performance of this contract, it shall make an immediate and full disclosure of such changes in writing to the Contracting Officer. Such
disclosure may include a description of any action which the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate any
resulting conflict of interest.  PBGC may, however, terminate the contract for convenience if it deems such termination to be in the best
interest of the Government.

(2) In the event that the contractor was aware of facts required to be disclosed or the existence of an actual or potential organizational
conflict of interest and did not disclose such facts or such conflict of interest to the Contracting Officer, PBGC may terminate this contract
for default.

(d) Remedies. For breach of any of the above restrictions or for nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any facts required to be disclosed
concerning this contract, including the existence of an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest at the time of or after award,
the Government may terminate the contract for default, disqualify the contractor from subsequent related contractual efforts, and pursue such
other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract.

(e) Waiver. Requests for waiver under this clause shall be directed in writing to the PBGC Office of General Counsel and a copy provided to the
Contracting Officer, and shall include a full description of the requested waiver and the reasons in support of the request. If it is determined
to be in the best interests of the Government, the Contracting Officer may grant such a waiver in writing.

(f) Subcontracts.

(1) The contractor shall include a clause, substantially similar to this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts expected to
exceed the simplified acquisition threshold in FAR Part 13.  The terms "contract," "contractor," and "Contracting Officer" shall be
appropriately modified to preserve the Government's rights.

(2) Prior to the award under this contract of any such subcontracts for advisory and assistance services, the contractor shall obtain from the
proposed subcontractor or consultant a disclosure of all existing or potential organizational conflicts of interest and shall determine in
writing whether the interests disclosed present a significant potential for an organizational conflict of interest. Where an actual or
significant potential organizational conflict of interest is identified, the contractor shall take actions to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate the
organizational conflict to the satisfaction of the contractor. If the conflict cannot be avoided or neutralized, the contractor must obtain the
approval of the PBGC Contracting Officer prior to entering into the subcontract.




H.4   PBGC-03-003   SUITABILITY DETERMINATION REQUIREMENTS (JAN 2010)


   PBGC-03-003 Suitability Determination Requirements (Jan 2010)
       The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will investigate and adjudicate the suitability of contractors for employment or continued
       employment. PBGC will employ and/or retain only those persons found suitable for employment.

       (1) The Contractor employees governed by this contract may need to access sensitive information. PBGC reserves the right to determine
       suitability for contractor personnel at the project site and deny access to any sensitive information or project specific area to any
       personnel for any cause.

       (2) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing providing the name and the nationality of non-U.S. citizens who are
       legal residents, providing a copy of their VISA (work permit) or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence as
       evidenced by Alien Registration Receipt Card Form I-151, or who presents other evidence from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
       Services that employment will not affect his/her immigration status. PBGC reserves the right to refuse any foreign national participation
       on this contract and to refuse them permission to enter PBGC premises.

       (3) The Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will provide the appropriate background
       investigation forms to the contractor and give the contractor instructions for completing the background investigation process. These
       responsibilities may be delegated to the Contract Manager or the Contract Security Representative with the understanding that the COTR
       holds ultimate responsibility. Completed background investigation forms shall be submitted within two (2) weeks from the Entrance on Duty
       date to:

       Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
       PBGC Security Officer
       Facilities and Services Department
       1200 K Street, NW, Mail Stop: FASD
       Washington, DC 20005-4026

       (4) PBGC will exercise full and complete control over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating clearances for employees. The PBGC
       may, as it deems appropriate, authorize and grant temporary clearance to employees of the contractor. However, the granting of a
       temporary clearance to any such employee shall not be considered as assurance that full clearance will follow as a result or condition
       thereof and the granting of either a temporary or full clearance shall in no way prevent, preclude or bar the withdrawal or termination
       of any such clearance by the PBGC.

       (5) If the adjudication is unfavorable on a contract employee, or if PBGC finds a contractor to be unsuitable or unfit for his or her
       assigned duties, the Personnel Security Officer will contact the Contractor to effect the immediate removal of the contract employee from
       the PBGC contract and premises.

       (6) PBGC may waive suitability determinations for contractor personnel who have had recent background investigations at the appropriate
       suitability determination risk level established by either the COTR or the Personnel Security Officer. PBGC will inform the contractors
       where such is the case.

       The Contractor will be provided a copy of the PBGC Directive PM 05-6, "Personnel Security and Suitability Program" and PBGC Directive PM
       05-1, "PBGC Entrance on Duty and Separation Procedures for Federal and Contract Employees" and facilitate the Suitability Determination
       process.

       Failure to comply with PM 05-1 may result in: (a) corrective action, up to and including contract termination for continued non-
       compliance after counseling, or (b) documented non-compliance on the contractor’s past performance evaluation.





H.5   PBGC-03-004   DISPLAY OF PBGC IDENTIFICATION BADGES (APR 2007)

The Contractor shall comply with PBGC Directive Number GA-10-9, “Display of PBGC Identification Badges,” the full content of which is located at
  http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/GA_10_9.pdf  - Directive GA-10-9.
All contract and sub-contract employees whose duties under this contract require their presence on designated PBGC facilities shall be clearly
identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by PBGC and shall observe and otherwise be subject to such security regulations as are in effect
for the particular premises in accordance with PBGC Directive Number GA-10-9. 

The PBGC-issued photo Identification Badge must be visible and be displayed at or above the waist.  Badges may be displayed from either lanyard
or clip style holders.  The badge must be available for building security officer inspection in order to authenticate and validate. 

Contractors that arrive to work without their Badge must:  report to the Security Desk located in the 1200 K Street lobby; sign-in to the
appropriate Log Book; present a valid government-issued form of photo identification to the security officer; contact a co-worker to vouch for
him/her by signature in the log book; and, receive and display a temporary badge which shall be visible at all times and displayed at or above
the waist. 

Contractors shall be responsible for the care and protection of their Badge and promptly report all instances of loss or theft and initiate
immediate action to replace the lost or stolen Badge.  Contractors must relinquish their Badge upon separation or upon any circumstances which
make the continued possession or use inappropriate. 

Failure to comply with this Directive can result in refusal of admittance to PBGC designated facilities. 


H.6   PBGC-04-004   PBGC INFORMATION SECURITY (DEC 2009)


   PBGC-04-004 PBGC INFORMATION SECURITY (DEC 2009)
|The provider of information technology shall adhere to:                                                                                         |                                               |
|1) Federal statutes,                                                                                                                            |                                               |
|2) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance,                                                                                              |                                               |
|3) National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing Standards and PBGC implementation of Security Guidelines (800  |                                               |
|Series), (See 5a -- IM 05-2 below.)                                                                                                             |                                               |
|4) Federal Information Systems Controls and Audit Manual (FISCAM), and                                                                          |                                               |
|5)PBGC Orders relating to information security including:                                                                                       |                                               |
|a) IM 05-2 Information Technology Security Policies, http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/im_05_2.pdf                                                       |                                               |
|b) IM 05-7 Information Technology Solutions Life Cycle Methodology (ITSLCM), http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/im_05_7.pdf and                           |                                               |
|c) IM 05-4 Use of Information Technology Resources. http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/Im_05_4.pdf                                                        |                                               |
|The provider of information technology shall comply with PBGCs implementation of the following control frameworks including the:                |                                               |
|Capability Maturity Model - Integrated (CMMI),                                                                                                  |                                               |
|Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT), and                                                                        |                                               |
|Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL); and                                                                                       |                                               |
|In addition, the provider of information technology shall certify the following:                                                                |                                               |
|Applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC). Once PBGC   |                                               |
|approves for implementation, this also includes Internet Explorer 7 configured to operate on Windows XP and Vista (in Protected Mode on Vista). |                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                |                                               |
|a)For the Windows XP settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_WinXP.html, and                                                         |                                               |
|                                                                                                                                                |                                               |
|b)for the Windows Vista settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_vista.html.                                                          |                                               |
|The standard installation, operation, maintenance, updates, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the     |                                               |
|approved FDCC configuration. The information technology should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default program   |                                               |
|files directory and should be able to silently install and uninstall.                                                                           |                                               |
|Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges.            |                                               |
|(End of Clause)                                                                                                                                 |                                               |


H.7   PBGC-37-001   KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 2006)


PBGC has identified the following personnel who will be held responsible for the duration of the contract.  They are essential to the ongoing
conduct of the project and will assure consistent management control and direction.  In order to balance potential cost efficiency with
potential for success, the Government will accept the combination of any two of the prescribed roles in one individual but will not accept one
individual serving in all three roles.

    • Project Manager
    •  IT Infrastructure  Lead Analyst
    •  OMB Exhibit 300 Alternatives Analyst

The personnel specified above are essential to the work being performed. These key personnel shall NOT be reassigned or diverted without the
written consent of the Contracting Officer.  Prior to removing any of the specified individuals from performance of this contract, the
Contractor shall provide 30 calendar days advance notification to the Contracting Officer and shall submit justification (including resumes for
proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the Program.


H.8   PBGC-37-002   STAFFING APPROVAL (OCT 2004)


The Contractor is responsible for providing personnel under this contract who meet or exceed the minimum qualifications.  All Contractor
personnel assigned to this contract will be subject to review by the Contracting Officer or his representative.  Contractor personnel found not
to meet qualifications or performance standards shall be removed from performing under this contract.  Dollars associated with personnel found
not to meet the labor category qualifications will be disallowed.

                                                                    SECTION I


I.1.  52.212-4  Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (MAR 2009)



I.2.  52.212-1  INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS—Commercial Items (JUN 2008)



I.3  52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items.

As prescribed in 12.301(b)(4), insert the following clause:

Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (June 2009)

 (A) THE CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) CLAUSES, WHICH ARE INCORPORATED IN THIS CONTRACT BY
REFERENCE, TO IMPLEMENT PROVISIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS:
(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).
(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
_X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and
10 U.S.C. 2402).
__ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
__ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5).
(Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
__ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5).
__ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
__ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
__ (7) [Reserved]
_X_ (8)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
__ (9)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
_X_ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
__ (11)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
__ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
__ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
__ (14)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
__ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355,
section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
__ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and
10 U.S.C. 2323).
__ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
__ (18)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
_X_ (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).
_X_ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Aug 2009) (E.O. 13126).
_X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
_X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
_X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
_X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
_X_ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
_X_ (26) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially
available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)
__ (27)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf
items.)
__ (28) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
__ (29)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
__ (30) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
__ (31)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C.
2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
__ (32) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
_X_ (33) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
_X_ (34) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
__ (35) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
__ (36) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
__ (37) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
__ (38) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
_X_ (39) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
__ (40) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
__ (41) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
__ (42)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009)
(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
__ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).
__ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
__ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).
__ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records—Negotiation.
(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to
examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention,  or the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to
appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made
available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—
(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction
of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)
(38 U.S.C. 4212).
(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).
(vii) [Reserved]
(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-
Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351,
et seq.).
(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).
(xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with
paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down
required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to
satisfy its contractual obligations.

(End of clause)



I.4  52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MARCH 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least _30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 6 months from Date of Award.

I.5   PBGC-09-001   RESTRICTIONS AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION (OCT 2004)


(a) The Contractor agrees that it will take such measures as are necessary to restrict access to pension plan and participant records as well as
any other information related to work pursuant to this contract (including, but not limited to, any information relating to legal, policy,
program, operational or other issues, whether concerning existing, proposed or contemplated legislation, regulations, policy issuances or
similar matters or otherwise) to those employees and/or subcontractors of the Contractor needing such information to perform the work required
thereunder, i.e., on a "need-to-know" basis.  This Clause does not apply to information which has been released to the public by PBGC or which
is available to the public other than by the Contractor's breach of this Agreement.

(b) The Contractor agrees to keep the restricted information in the strictest confidence.  The Contractor also agrees not to publish, reproduce
or otherwise divulge the Information in whole or in part, in any manner or form, nor to authorize or permit others to do so, taking such
reasonable measures as are necessary to restrict access to the Information, to those employees and/or subcontractors needing such information to
perform the work required under the contract, i.e., on a "need-to-know" basis.  The obligation to maintain confidentiality continues after
completion, termination, or expiration of this contract. The Information shall be made available only at the discretion of the PBGC and subject
to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. Sec. 552), as amended, The Privacy Act, (5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a), as amended, The Trade Secrets Act, (18
U.S.C. Sec. 1905, as amended), and any other applicable laws or regulations.  Further, the Contractor shall notify the PBGC of the transfer to
subcontractors of any information prior to any such transfer.  Upon completion of the Contractor's obligations, the Contractor shall return or
destroy all copies of restricted information, whether furnished by PBGC or created by the Contractor and any subcontractor.

(c) The Contractor agrees to immediately notify the PBGC, in writing, in the event that the Contractor determines or has reason to suspect a
breach of any part of this clause.

(d) The Contractor agrees to immediately notify the PBGC in writing, of any request received from any individual who is not a party to this
contract, for access to information related to this contract.  Those requests will be directed to PBGC's Disclosure Officer for processing under
the provision of the Freedom of Information Act.  This paragraph does not apply to a request by an individual for access to information
contained in records pertaining to that particular individual.  However, if the individual wants copies of the actual records pertaining to him,
he first must contact PBGC's Disclosure Officer.

(e) The Contractor agrees that it will not knowingly violate any statutory or regulatory restrictions against the disclosure of government
records, including 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a, as amended, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552, as amended, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1905, as amended, and implementing regulations.
The Contractor also agrees that it will take steps to ensure that any subcontractor will also adhere to these restrictions.

(f) The Contractor is bound by Section (m) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a(m) and as such is considered under the act to be an employee
of the agency.  Accordingly, the Contractor and any of its employees are subject to the criminal penalties of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C.
Sec.552a(i).

(g) The Contractor will designate and identify an individual who shall be responsible for the notifications required under sections b, c and d
of this agreement and who shall receive all appropriate responses from the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or from PBGC's
Disclosure Officer.  The Contractor shall take those steps neccessary to ensure that the provisions of paragraphs a-g, inclusive, are adhered to
by all directors, officers, agents and employees of the Contractor.

(h) The Contractor shall place the provisions contained at Paragraphs a-g, above, in all subcontracts entered into pursuant to the contract
where the subcontractor will have or may gain access to PBGC information and, further, the Contractor agrees to enforce the provisions of this
Clause against any and all subcontractors under this contract.




I.6   PBGC-31-003   TRAINING (OCT 2004)


All costs associated with training required to make a contractor employee qualified to perform any given task under this contract shall be borne
by the Contractor.  The Contractor may be reimbursed by the PBGC for the cost of a training course on PBGC specific applications, policies or
procedures only when the training has been pre-approved by the COTR.  The Contractor shall present to the COTR a written justification which
clearly describes the training, its direct benefits to PBGC, the impact if the training is not provided and the total cost including (1) salary
or wages, (2) travel and accommodations in accordance with federal travel regulations, (3) tuition and fees when the training is in an
institution not operated by PBGC or the Contractor, and (4) training materials and textbooks.  The request must be made and approval granted by
the COTR prior to the training. The COTR is designated the authority to approve or disapprove the training or any of the inclusive costs.


I.7   PBGC-39-001 ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (OCT 2004)


All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this Statement of Work/Specification must meet the applicable accessibility
standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists.  36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.section508.gov and http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm.

If Travel and Per Diem are authorized they will be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) in effect at the time the
travel is authorized by PBGC.  All travel requirements must be met using the most economical form of transportation available and must be
scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates unless waived by the Contracting Officer.  You may find the FTR at
http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/channelView.do?pageTypeId=8199&channelPag =%2Fep%2Fchannel%2FgsaOverview.jsp&channelId=-14863


                                                                    SECTION L

L.1   PBGC-15-002 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS (OCT 2004)

a.  Markings.  It is important that the outer envelope or wrapping of your offer be addressed as follows.  Failure to so mark the outer core
could be the cause of your offer being misdirected and received too late for consideration at the required destination.  (Offeror's Return
Address)

                      TO:  PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION
                           SOLICITATION NO.: (See Block 5 of SF1449)
                           Closing Date:  (See Block 8 of SF1449)
                           1200 K STREET, NW
                           Mail Stop: Procurement
                           WASHINGTON, DC  20005-4026

b.  Hand Carried Offers.  Proposals that are hand carried will be delivered to the same suite number shown above in a sealed outer wrapper. Hand
carried offers must be received in the above office by the due date and time.  Proposals received at the destination after the time and date
specified for receipt will be considered late and dealt with in accordance with the late proposal provision of FAR 52.212-1.
c.  Proposals must also be submitted electronically via the PBGC Secure Proposal site.   To submit your proposal, follow the steps below:
   1. Encrypt your file(s) (password protect)
   2. Go to http://files.pbgc.gov
   3. Select "Secure Upload".
     4. Enter the email address of the Procurement Officer and click "Start".
   5. Enter your contact information.
   6. Enter your message and a description of the submission (this information will be included in the notification to the Procurement Officer)
   7. Click the notification checkbox to ensure you receive notification when the file is downloaded by the Procurement Officer.
   8. Select the upload method, Regular or Enhanced.  Regular upload works with all browsers and enhanced upload works with Java enabled
      browsers.
   9. Select the file(s) to send (use the Browse buttons).
  10. Press the Upload & Send button.
  11. Send a separate email to the Procurement Officer with your encryption password.

You will receive an automated system confirmation of a successful upload, and an automated system email when the Procurement Officer downloads
your submission.


L.2   PHASE I – OFFERORS WRITTEN PROPOSAL


A. General Instructions
Proposals in Phase I shall be submitted in two separate parts as further described below - Part I, the Written Technical Proposal and Part II,
the Business Proposal. Each of the parts must be separately bound, so the evaluation of each part may be conducted independently. Proposals
shall be enclosed in sealed packaging and addressed to the office as specified in this solicitation. Facsimile offers will not be considered.

Only those offerors who successfully pass Phase I, Part I by having their written offer found to be acceptable by the Technical Evaluation Panel
will be invited to give an oral presentation (Phase II) addressing the evaluation factors listed in Section M.  At the conclusion of Phase I,
successful offerors will be notified via email, telephone or by facsimile transmission to schedule their oral presentations as outlined herein.
Phase 1, Part II, Business Proposal, is due at the same time as the submission of the oral presentation slides.

Part I of the written technical proposal shall include only the offeror's past performance, experience and key personnel, as outlined below, and
shall be limited to 30 pages.  Those pages in excess of 30 pages will not be evaluated or considered. Cover pages and tabs are not included in
the count. The written technical proposal shall include a maximum of 15 pages to address key personnel with no more than three pages for each
resume per key personnel.  In the event the resumes do not total 15 pages, offerors may add the remaining pages to their written technical
proposal for past performance/experience and vice versa.

The written technical proposal shall use the specific format below. These directions assist in providing a fair and equitable evaluation of all
proposals. The Government may determine those proposals not following the directions as unacceptable and may reject such offers from further
consideration.

    • 8.5 by 11 inch paper
    • 12 pitch print or larger, Times New Roman style font
    • 1.25 inch left hand margin, .75 inch right hand margin and 1 inch margins at both the top and bottom for each page
    • all pages single spaced
    • every page sequentially numbered; and
    • page numbers shall be centered in the bottom margin.

B. Part I - Written Technical Proposal
Offeror’s proposal shall address the following in their written technical proposal.

(1) Past Performance. The offeror shall provide evidence of the offeror's (i.e., firm's or organization's) past performance including meeting
delivery dates and schedules the same as, or substantially similar to, that required by the solicitation. The offeror shall provide at least
three references as follows: the names and telephone numbers of contact persons from previous customers who can provide information regarding
the performance of the offeror's firm during the last three years on work of a similar nature to that described in the statement of work,
Section C. Include the dollar amount and length of contract for each contract referenced.

(2) Experience. The offeror shall describe its capabilities, and those of its major subcontractors and/or joint venture partners, if any, to
perform this work. Information on the offeror's size, experience, and resources available to enable the offeror to fulfill the requirements
shall be provided. When discussing previous Government and/or private sector projects similar to that proposed, provide sufficient detail to
convince evaluators of the relevance of the skills and objectives involved. In particular, offerors shall address how their demonstrated
experience and expertise satisfy the oral presentation evaluation factors set forth in the solicitation below.

(3) Qualifications of Key Personnel. The offeror shall provide the names, position descriptions and information to support the qualifications,
including relevant experience, specialized training and education, of all proposed key personnel (see clause entitled “Key Personnel” in Section
H of this solicitation for further definition).  Include names of employers and dates of employment. Include any proposed consultants and
subcontractor employees who will perform duties of key personnel. Offerors shall address how their key personnel satisfy the evaluation criteria
set forth in Section M.

C. Part II – Business Proposal Content

The offeror’s Business/Cost Proposal, must be submitted using the following format:

      (a) The Proposal Form, SF-1449, “Solicitation/Contract/Order form Commercial Items.” The Proposal Form is to be executed fully and used as
      the cover sheet (or first page) of this volume. The acceptance period entered on the Proposal Form by the offeror shall not be less than 60
      calendar days from the date specified for the receipt of offers. The person signing the Proposal Form must have the authority to commit the
      offeror to all of the provisions of the proposal, fully recognizing that the Government has the right, by terms of the solicitation, to
      make an award without further discussions.




      (b) Exceptions and Deviations taken to the model contract. Note however, that any exceptions or deviations from the model contract could
      result in an offer being considered unacceptable.


      (c) When an offeror teaming arrangement is proposed such offerors shall submit adequate documentation to substantiate that a bona fide
      arrangement exists between the team partners. This documentation shall fully disclose the company relationships along with any other
      evidence supporting the existence of the offeror teaming arrangements.


      (d) Existence or appearance of potential conflicts of interest. Offerors must disclose to the Contracting Officer any personal or business
      relationships with Government personnel, or financial interests, which could present the appearance of an existing or potential conflict of
      interest. Failure to do so, if such become known by other means could result in a determination of nonresponsibility prior to award, or
      termination of the contract after award.


      (e) The Cost/Pricing section of the proposal shall consist of a completed Section B, “Schedule of Supplies/Services and Price/Cost.


L.3   PHASE II - ORAL PRESENTATIONS

Those offerors who successfully pass Phase I will be invited to make an oral presentation (Phase II) addressing the evaluation factors listed in
Section M.  The offerors will be given the date, time, and place for the presentation. Oral Presentations will be held at PBGC Headquarters.
Appointments for the oral presentation will be drawn by lottery and there will be no opportunity to change the time assigned. Firms will be
given approximately 1 week notice that they have been selected to present and the time of their presentation. It is anticipated that oral
presentations will take place the week of August 23 - 27, 2010  . The presentations will be videotaped. Presentations will be limited to no more
than one and one-half hours. Special Note: The offeror must submit seven (7) paper copies of its presentation slides to PBGC in a sealed package
on or about August 20, 2010 . The Government may ask questions at the conclusion of the presentation, but the question period will not count
against the time limit.  The oral presentation must be presented by the key personnel identified in the offeror’s proposal. No one other than
key personnel, and key subcontractor personnel, who will be assigned to this contract will be permitted to present for any part of the oral
presentatio the oral presentation.

The offeror shall use the presentation to explain its understanding, approach, and allocation of resources to enable complete evaluation of the
offeror's capability to provide the services required herein. The offeror shall demonstrate how it plans to meet the stated requirements of
goals and that the offeror has the necessary understanding, expertise, facilities, personnel and experience to perform successfully.

During oral presentations offerors may use charts, view graphs, and/or exhibits to support their oral presentation. No changes can be made to
the slides from the hard copy submitted. Note: the offeror is responsible for providing a person to flip the view graph charts if this will not
be done by the briefer. Any view graph or computer presentation must be prepared in a font size large enough to be seen at the back of a
conference room. Offerors must be responsible for supplying their own presentation equipment. A screen will be provided. In the event of
equipment failure, the offeror must proceed with the presentation without use of such equipment.

No price information is to be included in the oral presentation or briefing charts.

The filming of the presentation will be immediately terminated at the completion of the hour and one-half unless the offeror has completed its
presentation earlier. A question and answer period will follow, which will also be videotaped. During the question period, the Government may
ask questions of the briefer for clarification if something is not clear, but there will not be a negotiation at that time. Questions and
answers will be considered for evaluation purposes. The offeror's oral presentation will be evaluated in accordance with Section M.

L.4   PBGC-15-005 QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE SOLICITATION (OCT 2004)

(a) All questions concerning this solicitation must be submitted in writing to the Contract Specialist named in Block 10a of the SF-1449 (cover
page) for information about any aspect of the solicitation.  Prospective offerors are warned against contacting any PBGC personnel outside the
Procurement Department prior to award of a contract resulting from this solicitation. If such a contact occurs and is found to be prejudicial to
competing vendors, the vendor making such a contact may be excluded from award consideration.

(b) The vendor shall email all questions/inquiries to the Contracting Specialist  named in Block 7(a) of the SF 1449.  Answers to
inquiries/questions will be provided to all vendors being solicited, giving due regard to the proper protection of proprietary information.

(c) No information concerning this solicitation will be provided in response to telephone calls.  All such requests must be submitted, in
writing, to the Procurement Department, at the address shown in Block 7 of the SF-33 (cover page) or to the facsimile transmission number above.
 Written inquiries will be answered in writing and provided to all vendors.

(d) Prospective offerors are asked to submit their questions grouped by solicitation section and making reference to the particular paragraph.
Questions must be submitted in writing, and are due  July 30, 2010 for Phase I proposals and August 18, 2010 for Phase II proposals, to allow
the PBGC an opportunity to respond.  Any questions received after that may not be answered before the solicitation closing date.

L.5   PBGC-15-007 EXPENSES RELATED TO PROPOSAL SUBMISSION (OCT 2004)
The Government is not liable for any costs incurred by any offerors in submitting proposals in response to this solicitation.
                                                                    SECTION M

M.1   BEST VALUE TRADE-OFF PROCUREMENT - RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF TECHNICAL VERSUS COST/PRICE FACTORS

(a) The Government will make an award to the responsible offeror whose offer conforms to the solicitation and is most advantageous to the
Government (i.e., that which represents the best value to the Government), cost or price and other factors considered. Five separate factors
will be evaluated:
(1) Experience
(2) Key Personnel
(3) Past Performance
(4) Technical Approach
(5) Management Approach

Past Performance, Experience, and Key Personnel will be evaluated in Phase 1 based on the written material provided.  Technical Approach and
Management Approach will be evaluated in Phase 2 based on the oral presentation. The Phase 1 evaluations of Past Performance, Experience and Key
Personnel will be carried over and combined with the Phase 2 evaluations Technical and Management Approach for those offerors participating in
Phase 2. 

Technical Approachand Management Approach are equally important.  Experience, Past Performance and Key Personnel are equally important and more
important than Technical Approach and Management Approach.

The combined relative merit of the technical evaluation factors will be significantly more important than cost or price in the selection of the
contractor.

While the cost or price factor has no numerical weight or adjectival rating, it is a criterion in the overall evaluation of proposals.
Furthermore, the proposed cost or price must be considered reasonable and must reflect the proposed technical approach.

(b) The Government may award a contract to other than the lowest priced offer. In the event that two or more offers are considered technically
equivalent, the evaluated cost or price will be of primary importance in determining the proposal most advantageous to the Government.

M.2   EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

The technical evaluation of proposals received in response to this solicitation will be separated into two phases (Phases I and II as set forth
below).

A.    Phase I - Written Technical Evaluation Factors
A proposal shall be deemed acceptable if the proposal meets the requirements listed below if prepared in accordance with Section L of this
solicitation.  Only those offerors whose proposals are deemed acceptable will be selected for Phase II and invited to make an oral presentation
of their qualifications and technical approach. Written technical proposals will be evaluated based on the following criteria.

1. PAST PERFORMANCE

The PBGC is seeking to determine whether each offeror consistently delivers quality products and/or services in a timely manner with a
reasonable degree of customer satisfaction.  Therefore, this factor will be evaluated based on relevant past performance. Accordingly, the PBGC
will evaluate the proposed PPI based on information received from the prospective contractor (references), and from any other reliable source
available to the PBGC; sources such as an official past performance database and/or other Government and local agencies.

As stipulated under FAR Part 15.3, offeror’s without a record of relevant past performance or for who information on past performance is not
available, the offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorable on past performance. Thus, offerors without a record of relevant past
performance will be given a neutral rating.

2. EXPERIENCE
 • The extent to which the offeror’s verifiable experience and core capabilities clearly relate to the performance work statement in this RFP, to
   include the offeror’s:” Existing methodology for assessing the “As Is” state of an organization’s infrastructure; and comparison to industry
   standards and best practices;
 • Ability to develop infrastructure alternatives to include costs
 • Ability to produce complete OMB-compliant Alternatives Analysis documents and associated artifacts as listed in C.7.4.



3. QUALIFICATIONS OF KEY PERSONNEL

The extent to which the offeror provides qualified key personnel with relevant experience to perform this contract.  All required key personnel
are identified.  The extent to which key personnel have provided the services described in the Experience and the Past Performance sections of
this proposal.  For all key personnel not currently employed by the offeror, commitment letters are provided.

B. PHASE II - Oral Presentation Evaluation Factors
Oral presentations will be evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation factors.

   1. TECHNICAL APPROACH

   The extent to which the offeror’s proposal demonstrates a clear understanding of the activities required in the RFP and practical, cost-
   effective approaches for accomplishing them.

             o the detailed methodology for identifying and defining the “As Is” IT infrastructure. The approach should include a description of
               the data gathering strategy, data elements to be collected, and any information gathering tools.

             o the approach for conducting the “As Is” Assessment.

             o the approach for assessing and comparing OIT’s infrastructure to the relevant industry best practices and metrics to support the
               development of alternatives.  The approach should describe how best practices and metrics comparison standard/data are derived.

             o the understanding of and ability to support OIT development of Exhibit 300s: alternative analysis requirements, range of
               alternatives required, documentation requirements.

             o The anticipated deliverables

   2. MANAGEMENT APPROACH

   The extent to which the offeror’s proposal describes:

       • The management approach for this project including offeror’s organization and management structure.
       • The proposed staffing plan.
       • The quality assurance plan to ensure high quality services and deliverables.
       • The draft work plan to include timeline, staffing, and cost projection all requirements  (Section C.6 and C.7) and outputs/deliverables
         (Section F).


M.3   EVALUATION OF COST/PRICE
Cost/Price offers will not be point scored, assigned a numerical weight, nor adjectivally rated.  Cost offers will be evaluated for
reasonableness and appropriateness of proposed amounts and for the offerors understanding of the proposal requirements.  Cost will be evaluated
to assess realism and the probable cost to PBGC, including any improvements necessary to meet the needs of PBGC. Price will be evaluated for
reasonableness and appropriateness of proposed price for the offerors understanding of the proposal requirements.

M.4   AWARD ON INITIAL PROPOSALS

Pursuant to FAR clause 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors – Commercial Items, the Government reserves the right to award the contract without
discussions, based on initial offers.

M.5   EXCHANGES WITH OFFERORS

Should award be made without discussions, the PBGC may hold limited exchanges defined as clarifications, pursuant to FAR 15.306, to give
offerors an opportunity to clarify minor or clerical errors. The PBGC may hold limited exchanges with offerors before establishment of the
competitive range.

M.6   COMPETITIVE RANGE DETERMINATION

Pursuant to FAR Part 15.306(j), if discussions are held, the Contracting Officer shall establish a competitive range of the most highly rated
proposals. If the number of most highly rated proposals exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting
Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range.


M.7   PBGC-15-0111 REFERENCE AND EVALUATION (OCT 2004)

The PBGC reserves the right to contact any or all references cited by the offeror for the purpose of verifying the accuracy and completeness of
the information provided.  Information obtained from reference checks will be used in evaluation and scoring, as described above.

M.7  Adjectival Rating Table

Phase I – For Experience, and Qualifications of key Personnel, the requirements in column one must be met to achieve that adjectival rating.
For Past performance, the requirements in column two must be met to achieve that adjectival rating.


Phase II – For Technical Approach and Management Approach, the requirements in column one must be met to achieve that adjectival rating.

|ADJECTIVE                                   |DEFINITION AND CRITERIA                             |DEFINITION AND CRITERIA                                          |
|                                            |(Column 1)                                          |(Column 2)                                                       |
|EXCELLENT                                   |The proposal has exceptional merit and reflects an  |Offeror’s performance met contractual requirements and exceeded  |
|                                            |excellent approach which will clearly result in the |many of the customer’s benefit.  Performance was accomplished    |
|                                            |superior attainment of all requirements and         |with no to a few minor problems for which any required corrective|
|                                            |objectives.  This clearly achievable approach       |actions taken were highly effective                              |
|                                            |includes numerous advantageous characteristics of   |                                                                 |
|                                            |substance, and essentially no disadvantages, which  |                                                                 |
|                                            |can be expected to result in outstanding            |                                                                 |
|                                            |performance.  The risk of unsuccessful performance  |                                                                 |
|                                            |is very low as the proposal provides solutions which|                                                                 |
|                                            |are unquestionably feasible and practical.  These   |                                                                 |
|                                            |solutions are further considered very low risk in   |                                                                 |
|                                            |that they are exceptionally clear and precise, fully|                                                                 |
|                                            |supported, and demonstrate a clear understanding of |                                                                 |
|                                            |the requirements.                                   |                                                                 |
|                                            |Risk Level:  VERY LOW                               |                                                                 |
|GOOD                                        |The proposal demonstrates a sound approach which is |Offeror’s performance met contractual requirements and exceeded  |
|                                            |expected to meet all requirements and objectives.   |some of the customer’s benefit.  Performance was accomplished    |
|                                            |This sound approach includes advantageous           |with some minor problems for which any required corrective       |
|                                            |characteristics of substance, and few relatively    |actions taken were effective                                     |
|                                            |minor disadvantages, which collectively can be      |                                                                 |
|                                            |expected to result in satisfactory performance.  The|                                                                 |
|                                            |risk of unsuccessful performance is low as the      |                                                                 |
|                                            |proposal contains solutions which are considered    |                                                                 |
|                                            |feasible and practical.  These solutions are further|                                                                 |
|                                            |considered to reflect low risk in that they are     |                                                                 |
|                                            |clear and precise, supported, and demonstrate an    |                                                                 |
|                                            |understanding of the requirements.                  |                                                                 |
|                                            |Risk Level:  LOW                                    |                                                                 |
|ACCEPTABLE                                  |The proposal demonstrates an approach which is      |Offeror’s performance met contractual requirements.  Performance |
|                                            |capable of meeting all requirements and objectives. |was accomplished with some minor problems for which any required |
|                                            |The approach includes both advantageous and         |corrective actions taken were satisfactory                       |
|                                            |disadvantageous characteristics of substance, where |                                                                 |
|                                            |the advantages are not outweighed by the            |                                                                 |
|                                            |disadvantages.  Collectively, the advantages and    |                                                                 |
|                                            |disadvantages are likely to result in acceptable    |                                                                 |
|                                            |performance.  The risk of unsuccessful performance  |                                                                 |
|                                            |is moderate, as the proposal solutions are generally|                                                                 |
|                                            |feasible and practical.  These solutions are further|                                                                 |
|                                            |considered to reflect moderate risk in that they are|                                                                 |
|                                            |somewhat clear and precise, partially supported, and|                                                                 |
|                                            |demonstrate a general understanding of the          |                                                                 |
|                                            |requirements.                                       |                                                                 |
|                                            |Risk Level:  MODERATE                               |                                                                 |
|MARGINAL                                    |The proposal demonstrates an approach which may not |Offeror’s performance did not meet all of the contractual        |
|                                            |be capable of meeting all requirements and          |requirements.  Performance was accomplished with serious problems|
|                                            |objectives.  The approach has disadvantageous of    |for which any required corrective actions were marginally        |
|                                            |substance and advantages, which if they exist, are  |effective or not fully implemented                               |
|                                            |outweighed by the disadvantageous.  Collectively,   |                                                                 |
|                                            |the advantages and disadvantages are not likely to  |                                                                 |
|                                            |result in satisfactory performance.  The risk of    |                                                                 |
|                                            |unsuccessful performance is high as the proposal    |                                                                 |
|                                            |contains solutions which may not be feasible and    |                                                                 |
|                                            |practical.  These solutions are further considered  |                                                                 |
|                                            |to reflect high risk in that they lack clarity and  |                                                                 |
|                                            |precision, are generally unsupported, and do not    |                                                                 |
|                                            |demonstrate a complete understanding of the         |                                                                 |
|                                            |requirements.                                       |                                                                 |
|                                            |Risk Level:  HIGH                                   |                                                                 |
|UNACCEPTABLE                                |The proposal demonstrates an approach which, based  |Offeror’s performance did not meet most of the contractual       |
|                                            |on a very high risk, will very likely not be capable|requirements.  Performance was accomplished with serious problems|
|                                            |of meeting all requirements and objectives.  This   |for which any required corrective actions were ineffective or    |
|                                            |approach has numerous disadvantages of substance,   |non-existent                                                     |
|                                            |and advantages which, if they exist, are far        |                                                                 |
|                                            |outweighed by disadvantages.  Collectively, the     |                                                                 |
|                                            |advantages and disadvantages will not result in     |                                                                 |
|                                            |satisfactory performance.  The risk of unsuccessful |                                                                 |
|                                            |performance is very high as the proposal contains   |                                                                 |
|                                            |solutions which are not feasible and practical.  The|                                                                 |
|                                            |solutions are further considered to reflect very    |                                                                 |
|                                            |high risk in that they lack any clarity or          |                                                                 |
|                                            |precision, are unsupported, and do not demonstrate  |                                                                 |
|                                            |an understanding of the requirement.                |                                                                 |
|                                            |Risk Level:  VERY HIGH                              |                                                                 |
|UNKNOWN/NEUTRAL                             |                                                    |No relevant past performance record is identifiable upon which to|
|                                            |                                                    |base a meaningful past performance risk prediction.  A search was|
|                                            |                                                    |unable to identify any relevant past performance information for |
|                                            |                                                    |the contractor or their key personnel.  This is neither a        |
|                                            |                                                    |positive or negative assessment                                  |


[pic]
