Form Approved OMB NO. 0704-D188 (1 Data Item) Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 440 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Services, Directorate for Information Operations and Reports, 1215 Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 1204, Arlington, VA 22202-4302, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0704-0188) Washington, DC 20503. Please DO NOT RETURN your form to either of these addresses. Send completed form to the Government Issuing Contracting Officer for the Contract/PR No. listed in Block E. A. Contract Line Item No. B. Exhibit: A C. Category: TDP _________ TM ____________ OTHER ____X____

CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS LIST

D. System/Item: 554 ELSG/KSL Technical Services 1. Data Item No.: 2. Title of Data Item:

E. Contract/Pr No.

F. Contractor: 3. Subtitle:

A001

STATUS REPORT
5. Contract Reference:

Monthly Status Report
6. Requiring Office:

4. Authority (Data Acquisition Document No.):

DI-MGMT-80368
7. DD 250 Req: LT 9. Dist. Statement B 10. Frequency: Monthly

PWS Paragraph 6.3
12. Date of First Submission: See Blk 16

554 ELSG/KSL
14. Distribution: b. Copies: Final Repro 0 0

8. APP Code: N/A 16. Remarks:

N/A

11. As of Date: See Blk 16

13. Date of Subsequent Submission: See Blk 16

a. Addressee: 554 ELSG/KSL 554 ELSG/PK

Draft 0 0

Reg 1 1*

BLOCK 4: Contractor format is acceptable., however the report shall be segmented by Task Order. BLOCK 9: All documentation shall be marked as follows: "Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies only, Proprietary Information, 27 Aug 2007. Other requests for this document shall be referred to 554 ELSG/KSL. DESTRUCTION NOTICE: Destroy by any method that will prevent disclosure of contents or reconstruction of the document." BLOCKS 11, 12, & 13: An initial status report shall be delivered after the first full calendar month of performance. Subsequent reports shall be delivered within 5 working days of the end of each subsequent month. BLOCK 14: Unless otherwise specified, submission will provided electronically (soft copy) In Microsoft Word Document format. Approval automatic unless notified in writing by the Air Force within 10 calendar days after delivery. If disapproved, the contractor shall resubmit within five (5) working days. *Letter of submission only

15. TOTAL G. Prepared By: H. DATE I. Approved By:

0 J. Date:

2

0

1

CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS LIST

(1 Data Item) Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 440 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Services, Directorate for Information Operations and Reports, 1215 Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 1204, Arlington, VA 22202-4302, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0704-0188) Washington, DC 20503. Please DO NOT RETURN your form to either of these addresses. Send completed form to the Government Issuing Contracting Officer for the Contract/PR No. listed in Block E. A. Contract Line Item No. B. Exhibit: A C. Category: TDP TM OTHER X____ D. System/Item: 554 ELSG/KSL Technical Services 1. Data Item No.: 2. Title of Data Item: E. Contract/Pr No. F. Contractor: 3. Subtitle:

Form Approved OMB NO. 0704-D188

A002

PERFORMANCE & COST REPORT
5. Contract Reference: 6. Requiring Office:

4. Authority (Data Acquisition Document No.):

DI-FNCL-80912
7. DD 250 Req: LT 9. Dist. Statement B 10. Frequency: MONTHLY

PWS Paragraph 6.4
12. Date of First Submission: See Blk 16 b. Copies:

554 ELSG/KSL
14. Distribution:

8. APP Code: N 16. Remarks

11. As of Date: See Blk 16

13. Date of Subsequent Submission: See Blk 16

a. Addressee: 554 ELSG/KSL 554 ELSG/PK

Draft 0 0

Reg 1 1*

Final Repro 0 0

Block 4: Performance & Cost data shall be entered into a tracking spreadsheet available on a shared drive. BLOCK 9: All documentation shall be marked as follows: "Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies only, Proprietary Information, 27 Aug 2007. Other requests for this document shall be referred to 554 ELSG/KSL. DESTRUCTION NOTICE: Destroy by any method that will prevent disclosure of contents or reconstruction of the document." BLOCKS 11, 12, & 13: An initial cost report shall be delivered after the first full calendar month of performance. Subsequent reports shall be delivered within 5 working days of the end of each subsequent month or billing period (if other than monthly). BLOCK 14: Approval automatic unless notified in writing by the Air Force within 10 calendar days after delivery. If disapproved, the contractor shall resubmit within five (5) working days. *Letter of submission only

15. TOTAL G. Prepared By: H. DATE I. Approved By:

0 J. Date:

2*

0

2

CONTRACT DATA REQUIREMENTS LIST

(1 Data Item) Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 440 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Defense, Washington Headquarters Services, Directorate for Information Operations and Reports, 1215 Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 1204, Arlington, VA 22202-4302, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0704-0188) Washington, DC 20503. Please DO NOT RETURN your form to either of these addresses. Send completed form to the Government Issuing Contracting Officer for the Contract/PR No. listed in Block E. A. Contract Line Item No. B. Exhibit: A C. Category: TDP TM OTHER X___ D. System/Item Legacy Contracting System Support 1. Data Item No.: 2. Title of Data Item: E. Contract/Pr No. F. Contractor: 3. Subtitle:

Form Approved OMB NO. 0704-D188

A003

CONFERENCE MINUTES
5. Contract Reference:

Trip Report
6. Requiring Office:

4. Authority (Data Acquisition Document No.):

DI-ADMIN-81250A
7. DD 250 Req: LT 9. Dist. Statement B 10. Frequency: See Blk 16

PWS Paragraph 6.5
12. Date of First Submission: See Blk 16 b. Copies:

554 ELSG/KSL
14. Distribution:

8. APP Code: NA 16. Remarks

11. As of Date: See Blk 16

13. Date of Subsequent Submission: See Blk 16

a. Addressee: 554 ELSGKSL 554 ELSG/PK

Draft 0 0

Reg 1 1*

Final Repro 0 0

Block 4: Contractor format is acceptable. The Trip Report shall identify the significant, work related activities taken while traveling, any significant issues, and the final total cost. BLOCK 9: All documentation shall be marked as follows: "Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies only, Proprietary Information, 27 Aug 2007. Other requests for this document shall be referred to 554 ELSG/KSL. DESTRUCTION NOTICE: Destroy by any method that will prevent disclosure of contents or reconstruction of the document." Block 10, 11, 12, 13: Report shall be provided 5 business days after returning from each trip Approval automatic unless notified in writing by the Air Force within 10 calendar days after delivery. If disapproved, the contractor shall resubmit within five (5) working days. Block 14: Unless otherwise specified, submission will provided electronically (soft copy) In Microsoft Word format. *Letter of submission only

15. TOTAL G. Prepared By: H. DATE I. Approved By:

0 J. Date:

2*

0

3

PERFORMANCE-BASED WORK

STATEMENT (PWS)

FOR

554 ELSG/KSL TECHNICAL SERVICES

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS SERVICES SUMMARY GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY AND INFORMATION GENERAL INFORMATION CONTRACT DELIVERABLES APPENDICES

PAGE 3 8 10 10 11 13 15

2

1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES. The Air Force Contracting Information Systems (AFCIS) Hill operating location provides program management, software systems acquisition, and customer support for systems assigned to the 554 ELSG/KSL. Its main software products are the Automated Contracting Preparation System (ACPS) and the FARSite (http://farsite.hill.af.mil), which are both considered to be in sustainment. This contracting effort is to provide technical analysis services, network/system engineering services, software engineering and programming services, and procurement analysis services in support of the 554 ELSG/KSL mission. 1.1 The contractor shall provide the following services: 1.1.1 Technical Analysis Services: 1.1.1.1 Perform analysis, design, writing, debugging, and testing of program code for applications currently released or in development. Specific emphasis is required in the area of word processing and document assembly into a visually appealing document. 1.1.1.1.1 Provide technical expertise for defining and analyzing system requirements, developing design specifications, translating specifications into programming logic, and testing of requirements. 1.1.1.1.2 Provide technical analysis for 554 ELSG/KSL programs as a troubleshooter and ACPS helpdesk technical support contact. Troubleshoot programs, databases, code, screens, macros, and functions, as required. Record, report, and track system problems and malfunctions discovered during these activities. 1.1.1.1.3 Any coding required will be in accordance with Software engineering Process (SEP) accepted standards as set forth by 643 ELSS and KSL management. 1.1.1.1.4 Coordinate activities with Network Administrator to ensure hardware and software configuration, installation, and setup are optimized to any technical solutions devised during analysis, design, or creation of program changes. 1.1.1.2 Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties, including, but not limited to the Automated Requirements Tracking System (ARTS), data dictionary, and the configuration management tool, Program Source Code Management (PSCM). 1.1.2 Network/System Engineering Services: 1.1.2.1 Operate, maintain, and support computer hardware/software within 554 ESLG/KSL.
3

1.1.2.1.1 Responsible for the setup, configuration, and maintenance of key software packages loaded on desktops, servers, and peripheral devices. Services include programming and analysis as needed to insure the efficient operation of present systems and systems in maintenance/development. 1.1.2.1.2 Provide direct field support to the sites running the ACPS, Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation, or other future contracting information systems assigned to the 554 ELSG/KSL. 1.1.2.1.3 Provide recommendations for the effective use of new and emerging technologies in the development process throughout the program life cycle of programs supported by the 554 ELSG/KSL. 1.1.2.1.4 Provide day-to-day maintenance for Microsoft Servers (development and operational sites, web, and FTP), approximately 60 workstations, laptops, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), and other electronic peripheral devices. Monitor, evaluate, resolve, tune and analyze system performance to maintain maximum effectiveness and efficiency throughout the various systems environments. Install and upgrade hardware and install, set up, and configure the various operating systems and applications. 1.1.2.1.5 Computer operations and system management shall include database control and implementation. The contractor shall develop, analyze, evaluate and recommend program modifications, changes, or enhancements to plans, policies, procedures, and systems as directed and approved by the government. 1.1.2.1.6 Provide rapid response (within an hour) and troubleshooting of network problems. This will include interfacing with other organizations to resolve complex network issues. This shall also include assistance to organizations who are the customer of 554 ELSG/KSL software products. 1.1.2.2 Act as the administrator for hardware and software on the network and met the requirement for the topology of the base networking environment. 1.1.2.2.1 Plan, implement, and conduct system security checks (including facilities) required to improve, continue, maintain, recover, and restore data. Report suspected vulnerabilities and security incidents in accordance with AFSSI 5021, AFSSI 5027, and AFI 33-202. Respond to Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team (AFCERT) advisories in accordance with AFSSI 5021. 1.1.2.2.2 Provide technical services required for Certification and Accreditation of software products produced by 554 ELSG/KSL. Additionally, the contractor shall coordinate in activities required for Certifications and Accreditations of server and workstation hardware/software in accordance with AFSSI 5024. Provide technical
4

information, guiding the development process in order to meet current security policy. 1.1.2.2.3 Act as the alternate Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO), keeping current on Time Compliance Network Orders (TCNO) for servers, workstations, laptops, and PDAs. Responsibilities include system software security updates, and reporting back to the Network Operations and Security Centers (NOSC) at HQ/AFMC. 1.1.2.2.4 Act as the Computer Systems Administrator (CSA), and Functional Systems Administrator (FSA) (Primary and Alternate). Requires elevated network privileges (NACLC and Security plus certification required) DD 254 applies. 1.1.2.2.5 Provide technical advice to the Government in support of strategic planning to determine future hardware and software needs and to assist project managers on software development and problem resolution. 1.1.2.2.6 Provide technical services required for the implementation of new equipment, networking and communication issues, software upgrades, disaster recovery, security, and the effective use of new and emerging technology in the software development process. Additionally perform concept exploration and assessment, systems integration, performance management, technology assessment, testing, and validation. 1.1.2.3 Responsible for version control of software and software products: 1.1.2.3.1 Implement Configuration Management processes employed by 554 ELSG/KSL. This includes the ARTS and Program Source Code Management (PSCM). Analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations for improving process engineering, ensuring the processes will work within the Capability Maturity Model (CMM). Support, maintain, and enhance the programs used in these processes. Provide training in the use of these products. 1.1.2.3.2 Creating both full releases that can be installed at a new site, and patches/upgrades that can be applied to existing sites; 1.1.2.3.3 Providing all configuration, registry, directory, program, and database changes to production sites, all without site intervention; 1.1.2.3.4 Posting upgrades on the web and in the formats required for the automated update process including support, maintenance, and possible enhancements to the programs used in the automated update process; 1.1.2.3.5 Designing, creating, and maintaining installation programs for products created and distributed by 554 ELSG/KSL. 1.1.2.3.6 Load, maintain, and update Micro Focus Net Express/COBOL to
5

run in a networked, multi-developer, client/server environment. Analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations concerning the use of this and other tools used in the development process. 1.1.2.3.7 Develop, analyze, evaluate, recommend, and/or institute program modifications, changes, or enhancements to plans, policies, procedures, and systems as directed and approved by the government (for example, CMM, Global Combat Support System - Air Force (GCSS-AF), Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)). This shall include database control, implementation, and processes required to improve, continue, maintain, recover and restore data. 1.1.2.3.8 Update and maintain the ACPS databases, and other databases as required, including migration and administration. 1.1.3 Software Engineering and Programming Services: 1.1.3.1 Provide programming services on software developed or used by 554 ELSG/KSL (ACPS/MADES, FAR clause logic, Crystal Reports, Auto Clause Information (ACI) program, forms program, etc.). Programming is heavily concentrated in Net Express Dialog and Micro Focus COBOL, but also includes C+, C++, C#, Java, and may require other programming languages as requirements present themselves. 1.1.3.1.1 Analyze, design, create, debug, and test program code of programs currently released, or in production for supported programs. 1.1.3.1.2 Provide software engineering services and technical expertise for defining and analyzing system requirements, developing design specifications, translating specifications into programming logic, and testing. These services include technical leadership, training, developing solutions for engineering studies and client/server or internet/intranet applications, systems engineering, systems integration, architectural design, structured analysis, and object-oriented principles and tool suites. 1.1.3.1.3 Participates in all phases of software engineering process with emphasis on analysis, coding, testing, documentation and acceptance phases. 1.1.3.1.4 Provide assistance on required backup, recovery, and emergency procedures to ensure and maintain system integrity, restoration, and operability, planning, scheduling, and conducting emergency and contingency tests as directed by the government. 1.1.3.2 Record, report, and track system problems and malfunctions in support of the helpdesk in the ARTS. 1.1.3.3 Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties in accordance with CDRL A001, Status Reports.
6

1.1.4

Procurement Analysis Services: 1.1.4.1 Perform analysis, functional design, and testing of program code for applications currently released or in development. Specific emphasis is required in the area of acquisition and procurement processing. Provide programmers guidance on maintaining existing programs currently released, or in production. 1.1.4.1.1 Provide functional expertise for defining and analyzing system requirements, developing functional specifications, interpreting functional requirements to non-functional individuals, and testing of requirements. 1.1.4.1.2 Provide training on the functional use of products created or maintained by the 554 ELSG/KSL. Training shall be provided to individuals within the 554 ELSG/KSL as well to users at customer locations. 1.1.4.1.3 Provide functional expertise and assistance for technical activities related to system integrity, restoration, and operability, planning, scheduling, and conducting emergency and contingency test as directed by the government. Assist in housekeeping and preventive maintenance to maintain operation of the system resources. 1.1.4.2 Record, report, and track system problems and malfunctions as part of providing functional Helpdesk support. 1.1.4.3 Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties. 1.1.4.3.1 Create documentation in ARTS. 1.1.4.3.2 Prepare release documentation, test scripts, implementation instructions, test reports, and other software engineering artifacts as required by the 643 ELSS and KSL management. 1.1.4.3.3 Prepare, manage, and control written materials, logs, libraries, and archival storage to ensure continuity of processing and operational integrity

1.2 Phase In/Out 1.2.1 Phase In: It is anticipated that the services required for this contract may overlap with services being provided on existing contracts at 554 ELSG/KSL. The successful Offeror shall coordinate activities with any outgoing contractors to ensure a smooth transition of services. 1.2.2 Phase Out: If there is a change in contractor or if the operation reverts to in-house, the incumbent contractor will provide familiarization, to the government or the follow-on contractor, whichever the case may be, to permit an orderly change over to the successful contractor. 1.3 Other Direct Costs
7

1.3.1 Travel. 1.3.1.1 On occasion the contractor shall be required to travel to other locations in the performance of the tasks identified in this PWS. 1.3.1.2 All travel shall be coordinated with 554 ELSG/KSL management prior to departure. 1.3.2 Travel arrangements and entitlements shall be in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR). Reasonable means shall be taken to minimize the cost of travel to the Government. 1.3.3 Upon completion of all travel, a Travel Report shall be submitted identifying any issues that arose which are considered of interest to the successful completion of the 554 ELSG/KSL mission and shall summarize the final cost of the trip. 1.3.2 Other Direct Materials 1.3.2.1 The contractor shall maintain a record of maintenance agreements, renewals, upgrades, etc. for the proper maintenance and functioning of hardware and software identified in section 1.1.2 of this PWS. The contractor shall report to 554 ELSG/KSL management 30 days prior to expiration of agreements, renewals, upgrades, etc. 1.3.2.2 On occasion and upon coordination with 554 ELSG/KSL management, the contractor may be required to acquire and arrange for support of hardware and software required to perform the activities specified in section 1.1.2 of this PWS. Reasonable means shall be taken to minimize the cost of materials to the Government. 1.3.2.3 Receipts or other proof of purchase shall be provided to 554 ELSG/KSL. 2. CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS. 2.1 Technical Analysis: 2.1.1 Five or more years of Microsoft Windows/Office, WordPerfect, and Adobe troubleshooting and technical experience. Familiarity with Rich Text Format (RTF) specification is quintessential and required for the ACPS document assembly (output) process. 2.1.2 Individual(s) must be trained and experienced in Government logistics/procurement systems and processes. Detailed knowledge in the use of software products managed by 554 ELSG/KSL (ACPS, MADES, FARSite, etc.) is desirable. 2.1.3 Five or more years of hands-on experience in the design, development, and troubleshooting of information systems. Specific experience in the Government, DoD, and/or Air Force environment is desirable.
8

2.1.4 Demonstrated knowledge of Micro Focus COBOL, Net Express Dialog and COBOL Integration is required. 2.2 Network/System Engineering: 2.2.1 Five or more years securing network resources in a DOD environment. Must be able to demonstrate experience securing Windows 2000/2003 servers both inside and outside a firewall; Must be able to demonstrate a current knowledge of government regulations concerning network security with emphasis on AFSSI 5021 and AFSSI 5024; Must have experience with the governments NOSC, the issuance of Security Advisory Notices, and the reporting process is mandated; Must show examples of completed Certifications and Accreditation's (C&A) done on servers or systems in the past. 2.2.2 Five or more years experience in Server hardware and software using Terminal Services for applications and running a Windows OS in an active domain environment interacting with different platforms. Must demonstrate experience with the setup and configuration of hardware and software components, and file/print sharing across heterogeneous networks. 2.2.3 Five or more years experience in the setup of peripheral network resources such as CD burning and printing units, scanners, digital video camera equipment (firewire), digital cameras, web cams, and printers. Must demonstrate experience in set up and configuration of hardware and software components in a heterogeneous network environment. 2.2.6 Five or more years experience working in a network environment using hubs and switches, using both fiber and 100 Base-T cabling. Must demonstrate experience with internet technologies such as proxy servers, firewalls and web servers. 2.2.7 Five or more years experience in the administration of Microsoft operating systems and servers using Terminal Services for applications. 2.2.8 Five or more years experience with the setup and configuration of data/media recoverability by implementing an automated schedule of system backups and database archive operations appropriate for each system. 2.2.9 Five or more years experience in network administration in a DoD or Government environment managing, maintaining, and updating workstations with Windows Active Domain Services. Must have a security plus certification and pass a NACLC investigation to obtain elevated network privileges. 2.3 Software Engineering and Programming 2.3.1 Experience with Microsoft Windows/Office products in the software development environment. 2.3.2 Five or more years experience performing engineering services that supported tasks in related areas and encompassed work of similar scope. Familiarity with 554 ELSG/KSL
9

software engineering processes, as well as knowledge of the specific software systems managed is not a prerequisite, although this is highly desirable. 2.3.3 Five or more years experience in the development of information systems using Net Express Dialog, Micro Focus COBOL, and COBOL Integration is required. Must be able to debug existing code as well as design and implement new changes. Detailed knowledge in the use of software products managed by 554 ELSG/KSL (ACPS, MADES, FARSite, etc.) is desirable. 2.3.4 Demonstrated experience in defining and analyzing system requirements, developing design specifications, translating specifications into programming logic, peer reviewing and completing all assigned levels of testing and documentation. 2.4 Procurement Analyst 2.4.1 Microsoft Windows/Office 2003 and XP experience 2.4.2 6 or more years experience in the Contracting and Acquisition field with emphasis with experience in the logistics contracting field and utilizing the FAR system, and applying FAR principles to information systems. 2.4.3 Individuals must be trained and experienced in the use of the Procurement processes using automated systems. Detailed knowledge in the use of the Acquisition process. Seven or more years of hands-on experience developing , troubleshooting and training procurement information systems and DoD clause logic.

3. SERVICES SUMMARY. Performance Objective
Perform analysis, design, writing, debugging, and testing of program code for applications currently released or in development. Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties, including, but not limited to the Automated Requirements Tracking System (ARTS), data dictionary, and the configuration management tool (PSCM). Operate, maintain, and support computer hardware/software within 554 ESLG/KSL. Act as the administrator for hardware and software on the network including 3Com and Cisco switches/hubs and support/maintain the topology of the base networking environment. Responsible for version control of software and software products: Provide programming services on software developed by 554 ELSG/KSL (ACPS/MADES, FAR clause logic, Auto Clause Information (ACI) program, forms program, etc.). Programming is heavily concentrated in Net Express Dialog and Micro Focus COBOL. Record, report, and track system problems and malfunctions in support of the helpdesk in the Automated Requirements Tracking System (ARTS). 10

PWS Para
1.1.1.1 1.1.1.2

Performance Threshold
100% 99%

1.1.2.1 1.1.2.2

100% 99%

1.1.2.3 1.1.3.1

99% 100%

1.1.3.2

99%

Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties. Perform analysis, functional design, and testing of program code for applications currently released or in development. Provide programmers guidance on maintaining existing programs currently released, or in production. Record, report, and track system problems and malfunctions as part of providing functional Helpdesk support. Provide electronic recording of processes developed during completion of the above duties, including documentation in the Automated Requirements Tracking System (ARTS), preparation of release documentation, and other software engineering artifacts.

1.1.3.3 1.1.4.1

99% 100%

1.1.4.2 1.1.4.3

99% 99%

4. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY AND INFORMATION 4.1 The Government shall provide all necessary facilities, furnishings, and equipment to include computer hardware, software and office supplies to the contractor for performance of the work specified herein. 4.2 The majority of work shall be accomplished at Hill Air Force Base, but may also require access to Tinker Air Force Base, Warner-Robins Air Force Base, and other sites. Contractor personnel shall be required to follow base access requirements imposed by security forces at all DoD installations. 4.3 Government Furnished Information (GFI): Contractors shall be provided the source code and supporting documentation for all products produced or managed by 554 ELSG/KSL (including ACPS, FARSite, ARTS, and other products mentioned in this specification) as needed to support the activities specified herein. All GFI is provided explicitly for providing the services of this contract and shall not be considered transferred to the contractor at any time. All GFI shall be returned to the Government upon completion or termination of this contract. 5. GENERAL INFORMATION 5.1 Security Requirements 5.1.1. The security manager shall complete a "Request for Identification Credential (AFMC Form 496)" for each employee of the contractor requiring access to Hill AFB. The requests shall be submitted to Pass and Registration (South or West Gate Visitors Center). 5.1.2 The contract administrator shall complete an "Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate" (AF Form 2586) for each employee requiring entry into controlled areas. The request shall be submitted to Pass and Registration (Gates Visitor Center). 5.1.3 The Contractor shall be required to obtain a Common Access Card (CAC). The CAC shall be worn in plain sight at all times unless it is being used to access network systems. 5.1.4 The Contractor shall be required to have a secret facility clearance and each employee requiring elevated network privileges will require a NACLC clearance and Security Plus certification. Attached DD254 is applicable.
11

5.2 Quality Control 5.2.1. Quality Control Program. In compliance with the clause entitled "Inspection of Services", 52.246-4, the contractor shall establish a complete Quality Control Plan to ensure the requirements of this contract are provided as specified; Contractor format is acceptable. The contracting officer will notify the contractor of acceptance or required modifications to the plan before the contract start date. The contractor shall make appropriate modifications (at no additional costs to the government) and obtain acceptance of the plan by the contracting officer before the start of the first operational performance period. 5.3 Quality Assurance 5.3.1 The government will periodically evaluate the contractor's performance by appointing a representative(s) to monitor performance to ensure services are received. The government representative will evaluate the contractor's performance through intermittent on-site inspections of the contractor's quality control program and receipt of complaints from base personnel. The government may inspect each task as completed or increase the number of quality control inspections if deemed appropriate because of repeated failures discovered during quality control inspections or because of repeated customer complaints. Likewise, the government may decrease the number of quality control inspections if merited by performance. The government will also investigate complaints received from various customers located on the installation. The contractor shall be responsible for initially validating customer complaints. However, the government representative shall make final determination of the validity of customer complaint(s) in cases of disagreement with customer(s). 5.3.2 Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP): 5.3.2.1 The Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP(s)) is the authorized government representative(s) who will perform assessments of the contractor's performance. Subsequent to contract award, the identity of the QAP(s), with a letter defining their duties and authority will be promptly furnished to the successful bidder/offeror. 5.3.2.2 The QAP(s) or alternate(s) will inform the contract manager in person when discrepancies occur and will request corrective action. The QAP(s) or alternate(s) will make a notation of the discrepancy on their assessment checklist with the date and time the discrepancy was noted and will request the contract manager (or authorized representative) to initial the entry on the checklist. 5.3.2.3 Any matter concerning a change to the scope, prices, terms or conditions of this contract shall be referred to the Contracting Officer and not to the QAP(s). 5.3.5. The services to be performed by the contractor during the period of performance shall at all times and places be subject to review by the Contracting Officer or authorized representative(s).

12

5.4. Physical Security. The contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding all government property provided for contractor use. At the close of each work period, government facilities, property, and materials shall be secured. 5.4.1. Key Control. The contractor shall establish and implement methods of ensuring that all keys/key cards issued to the contractor by the government are not lost or misplaced and are not used by unauthorized persons. (NOTE: ALL REFERENCES TO KEYS ALSO INCLUDE KEY CARDS. NO KEYS ISSUED TO THE CONTRACTOR BY THE GOVERNMENT SHALL BE DUPLICATED. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEVELOP PROCEDURES COVERING KEY CONTROL THAT SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE QUALITY CONTROL PLAN. SUCH PROCEDURES SHALL INCLUDE TURN-IN OF ANY ISSUED KEYS BY PERSONNEL WHO NO LONGER REQUIRE ACCESS TO LOCKED AREAS). 5.4.1.1. The contractor shall immediately report the occurrences of a lost of duplicate key to the contracting officer. 5.4.1.2. In the event keys, other than master keys, are lost or duplicated, the contractor shall, upon written direction of the contracting officer, rekey or replace the affected lock or locks; however, the government, at its option, may replace the affected lock or locks or perform rekeying. When the replacement of locks or rekeying is performed by the government, the total cost of rekeying or the replacement of the lock or locks shall be deducted from the monthly payment due the contractor. In the event a master key is lost or duplicated, all locks and keys for that system shall be replaced by the government and the total cost deducted from the monthly payment due the contractor. 5.4.1.3. The contractor shall prohibit the use of keys issued by the government by any persons other than the contractor's employees. The contractor shall prohibit the opening of locked areas by contractor employees to permit entrance of persons other than contractor's employees engaged in the performance of assigned work in those areas, or personnel authorized entrance by the Contracting Officer. 5.5. Hours of Operation 5.5.1. Normal Hours of Operation. The contractor shall perform the services required under this contract during the following hours: Monday through Friday 0530 ­ 1700 EXCEPT FEDERAL HOLIDAYS. The contractor may work, with prior approval of the Contracting Officer, extended hours to ensure timely completion of work at no additional cost to the government. 5.5.2. Recognized Holidays. The contractor is not required to provide service on the following days: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Days, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. If the holiday falls on Saturday, it is observed on Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, it is observed on Monday.

13

5.5.3. Emergency Services. On occasion, services may be required to support an activation or exercise of contingency plans outside the normal duty hours described above. 5.6. Conservation of Utilities. The contractor shall instruct employees in utilities conservation practices. The contractor shall be responsible for operating under conditions which prevent the waste of utilities. Government telephones shall be used only for official government business. 5.7. Government Observations. Government personnel, other than contracting officers (COs) and quality assurance personnel (QAPs), may from time-to-time, with CO coordination, observe contractor operations. However, these personnel may not interfere with contractor performance or make any changes to the contract. 5.8. Safety Requirements. In performing work under this contract, the contractor shall conform to the safety requirements contained in the contract for all activities related to the accomplishment of the work and provide a safe work environment for the company personnel. 5.9 Training: From time to time the Contractor shall be asked to complete training required for base access, network access, safety, etc. Contractors will be advised as to whether or not the training is mandatory or encouraged and shall only be required to participate in mandatory training. As training requirements arise, the contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer if compliance with the requirement will cause an increase in cost to the Government so that a supplemental agreement may be reached. 5.10 Publications: Compliance with all publications, regulations and operating instructions provided by the Government is required where the contractor is authorized by the PWS to accomplish the work specified and when these policies are applicable to the requirements of the contract. The contractor is required to acquire and work within the provisions of the latest version of the publication. 6. CONTRACT DELIVERABLES 6.1. Records. The contractor shall be responsible for creating, maintaining, and disposing of only those government required records that are specifically cited in this PWS or required by the provisions of a mandatory directive as cited in the Publications section of this PWS. If requested by the Government, the contractor shall provide the original record or a reproducible copy of any such record within five working days of receipt of the request. 6.2 Quality Control Plan. The contractor shall provide a Quality Control Plan describing the company's quality control program and how they intend to ensure the quality of services being provided. The Plan shall be submitted in accordance with the Request For Proposal (RFP) Section L ­ Instructions to Offerors. 6.3 Status Reports. The contractor shall provide monthly status reports in accordance with CDRL A001. Contractor format is acceptable. 6.4 Performance and Cost Reports. The contractor shall provide monthly performance and cost reports in accordance with CDRL A002. Refer to CDRL for submission instructions.
14

6.5 Conference Minutes/Trip Reports. The contractor shall provide trip reports at the completion of all travel in accordance with CDRL A003. Contractor format is acceptable.

15

7. APPENDICES

A. Acronyms & Abbreviations List B. Publications and Forms

16

APPENDIX A ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS LIST Acronym/Abbreviation ACI ACPS AF AFB AFCERT AFCIS AFMC ARTS CFR CMM CO CSA CSSO C&A DEPT DOD FAR GCSS-AF GFI GR JTR MADES NOSC OSHA PBSA PCSM PDAs PKI Definition Auto Clause Information Automated Contract Preparation System Air Force Air Force Base Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team Air Force Contracting Information Systems Air Force Material Command Automated Requirements Tracking System Code Federal Regulation Capability Maturity Model Contracting Officer Computer Security Administrator Computer Security Systems Officer Certifications and Accreditation's Department Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Global Combat Support System - Air Force Government Furnished Information Government Representative Joint Travel Regulations Menu assisted Data Entry System
Network Operations and Security Center

Occupational Safety and Health Act Performance Based Service Acquisition Program Source Code Management Personal Digital Assistants Public Key Infrastructure
17

PWS QA QAP QCP RTF SEP SS TCNO UCM USAF

Performance-Based Work Statement Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Personnel Quality Control Program Rich Text Format Software Engineering Process Services Summary Time Compliance Network Orders Unit Compusec Manager United States Air Force

18

APPENDIX B

PUBLICATIONS/INSTRUCTIONS Publication/Instruction /Name Date AFSSI 5021/Vulnerability and Incident Reporting AFSSI 5024/Certification and Accreditation AFSSI 5027/Network Security Policy AFI 33-202/Computer Security Applicable Paragraph/Chapter Entire Document Entire Document Entire Document Entire Document PWS Paragraph 1.1.2.2.1 1.1.2.2.2 1.1.2.2.1 1.1.2.2.1

19

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

OO-ALC 

Hill AFB, UT

FA8224-09-R-KSL

20 August 2009



The Air Force Contracting Information Systems (AFCIS) Hill operating location provides program management, software systems acquisition, and customer support for systems assigned to the 554 ELSG/KSL. Its main software products are the Automated Contracting Preparation System (ACPS) and the FARSite (), which are both considered to be in sustainment. 

This contracting effort is to provide technical analysis services, network/system engineering services, software engineering and programming services, and procurement analysis services in support of the 554 ELSG/KSL mission.  Please see the attached DRAFT PWS for a complete description of program requirements.

The period of performance for this requirement is expected to be a basic plus 4 - 1 year options. The Contract Line Item (CLIN) structure is proposed as follows:





RFI QUESTIONS



The Source Selection Team has developed a list of questions to facilitate discussion and influence the final version of the RFP.  We intend to use your answers to refine the RFP and enhance selection criteria that assure open competition while supplying the best combination of military, government and commercial practices to our effort.  To ensure that your answers and comments are considered in the development of this acquisition, please submit your responses no later than TWO WEEK FROM THE RELEASE OF THIS RFI.



Send all responses to  with the heading ‘KSL’.



In addition to your responses to the RFI questions, feel free to include any suggestions, recommendations, questions, or concerns regarding this effort.  



What is the name of your company?



Do you believe there is a more appropriate NAICS than 541511?  If so, which one, and why do believe it is more appropriate?



3a.  What is the size of your company under NAICS 541511?



3b.  What is the size of your company under any alternate NAICS that you may have provided under question 2?



What do you see as the risks to performance, cost, and schedule associated with this effort?  Please indicate the severity of the risk if it occurred and its likelihood of occurring.  How could the risks be mitigated?



What pricing arrangements (FFP, T&M, etc.) do you feel would be suitable for the proposed CLINs given the requirement?







CLIN

Description

Type

0001

Network/System Engineering Services

Labor Hr

0002

Technical Analysis Services

Labor Hr

0003

Software Engineering and Programming Services

Labor Hr

0004

Procurement Analysis Services

Labor Hr

0005

Other Direct Costs (ODCs)

Cost 