

                                                          STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES (SOO)
                                             DIGITIZED UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (USAF ACADEMY)
                                                                VIRTUAL CAMPUS TOUR
                                                                18 September 2009
1.  GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF WORK.  The contractor shall provide all necessary design, supervision, project management, travel, labor, materials,
data configuration, hardware, software, testing, and all other incidentals necessary to develop and implement a three-dimensional (3D) virtual
digitized in-depth campus tour of the USAF Academy (USAFA) designed to provide potential students an overview of campus life.  The completed
digitized integrated product will be an interactive tour utilizing life-like avatars.  Potential USAFA students will have the ability to create
a customized avatar, enter into a virtual world and tour select areas of the USAF Academy campus. In addition, the avatars shall have the
ability to interact with a USAFA recruiter, participate in social networking activities; play in recruiter managed “gaming” events to gain
information about the Academy and the admissions process through a virtual, real-time recruiting experience.  The contractor shall provide up to
12 USAFA recruiter sponsored “gaming” events per year.
2. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES.
Provide a full service three-dimensional (3D) virtual digitized campus (the actual United States Air Force Academy) tour in order to promote the
USAF Academy as a college option for students that includes:

   a. Digitization of approximately 100,000 square feet of the USAF Academy to include all parts of:

A dormitory room
A laboratory
A lecture hall
The McDermott Library
The Cadet Chapel
Mitchell Hall dining facility
The Field House
Falcon Football Stadium
The Academy air field
Arnold Hall student center

   b. Each room/area will include at least one USAFA Recruiter Avatar (BOT), 10 USAF Academy trivia questions, up to 10 custom avatar animations,
      at least 10 clues containing USAF Academy facts/trivia and 20 avatar character customization options.

   c.   Development of custom interactive programs for the following locations/activities:


     1)  Flight simulator game program.


     2)  Obstacle course game program.


     3)  Parachuting exercise.


     4) Athletic track and field game to include hurdles.


     5) Clue/trivia game to earn virtual awards.


   d. A variety of avatars for users to select from including males and females in the following ethnic categories:  African American, Caucasian,
      Asian, and Hispanic.  Avatars must life-like and able to Walk, Jump, Salute, Turn, Wave, and be able to select from and dress in several
      different cadet uniforms.
   e.
   f. Clues and trivia in all digitized areas to earn points toward virtual awards (items the avatars can use and/or wear in the digitized
      campus).

   g. Requirement of user registration and password.  Contractor will develop security protection features within the program to protect user
      registration and password information.


   h. Chat capabilities between individual user and USAFA recruiter.   For security reasons, there shall be no “chat” capabilities between or
      among avatars except during “USAFA recruiter sponsored events”.


   i. Product will provide a “capability” to ensure for the safety of potential applicants by providing methods of controlling data exchange,
      e.g. personal data, protecting the identity between potential applicants.  The capability and or limitation of information exchange shall
      be subject to the approval of USAFA recruiters.


   j. Concurrent server hosting and software/hardware maintenance accommodating up to 300 concurrent users.


   k. Assist in creation of trivia that is pertinent to the admissions process or recruitment of millennial generation students based on
      recruitment experience working with colleges and college bound students.

   l. Program shall provide virtual environment where the recruiter will have the ability to ensure the privacy/safety of prospective students at
      all sponsored gaming events.


3.  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM AND/OR “GAMING” REQUIREMENTS:

   a. Integrated user profile in game.  This profile is shared by users; student may or may not complete the profile as they wish. (This is
      similar to having a “Facebook" in game).


   b. Compatibility with Microsoft Windows, Vista, and Mac systems so all prospective student will have ability to access regardless of the
      operating system they own.


   c. Tour hosting in game to include:




   1) Guided hands free tour mode – the students avatar can be lead by the tour guide seeing all text and chat and campus through the eyes of the
      tour guide to be completely hands free.




   2) Partial guided tour – the student’s avatar can be lead by the tour guide, see all the campus, chat and text through the eyes of the tour
      guide but can use the mouse to change the view and pan around the campus while still being lead.



   3) Free Tour – the student’s avatar can break away from partial or hands free tour and tour on their own still see all guide chat and text.
      Can at the click of a button rejoin hands free tour.






   d. A scheduling mechanism for students to see events and sign up for them.




   e. Tour guide ability to type text for explanation of tour or pre-populated tour messages that can be used with audio or text files.




   f. Manageable clicking ability to easily move between any of the 3 Tour Hosting options for tours.




   g. Program must provide statistics on the impact of their virtual world to the admissions and applications of college students. Must be able
      to substantiate the vital use of their tool with metrics and survey results.




   h. Obstacle course that avatar can run, jump and move around obstacles with a scoring or timed mechanism.



   i. Flight simulator with controls for the students to maneuver the aircraft over different types of terrain and obstacles.



   j. Clothing for avatars that are a replica of Air Force Academy uniforms.



   k. Virtual kiosks around the virtual world that takes the student directly to the online application.



   l. In- game items that are part of the natural environment of the Academy that a student can click on and get trivia clues i.e. falcon, book,
      computer, poster, sign, etc.



   m. Trivia stations where students can answer trivia questions based on clues they find throughout the campus.



   n. Points for correct answers for trivia questions. The points are turned in for merchandise the student can equip on their avatar i.e., AF T-
      shirt, AF pom poms, AF Football helmet, AF hoodie, AF bullhorn, etc.



   o. Create students bots around the campus to explain to the touring students where they are at when student is not on a guided tour.



   p. Create the entire virtual world with the eye on recruitments to help students see an exact replica of the Academy campus and help them
      determine if the campus is the right place for them.

4.  DELIVERABLES.

   a. Contractor must provide server hosting and annual hardware/software maintenance to accommodate up to 300 concurrent users upon completion
      of program development and testing.  Provide 3-day maintenance response time to include repairing/eliminating program bugs.  Provide 3-day
      response time for end-user support.


   b. Provide all necessary BETA testing to ensure 100 percent successful operation prior to government acceptance.




   c. Create and launch of USAF Academy virtual campus tour will be within one year from date of contract.


   d. Bi-monthly progress reports due to the Technical POC and the contracting officer no later than the 5th day of the month.


   e. Vendor must provide a three dimensional digitized sample and live virtual tour already completed at the time proposals are submitted.


   f. Vendor must provide a proposed milestone schedule for completing the effort at the time proposals are submitted.



   g. Program must provide statistics on the impact of their virtual world to the admissions and applications of college students.  Must be able
      to substantiate the vital use of their tool with metrics and survey results.

5.   LIMITATIONS/CONSTRAINTS

   a. Contractor will not videotape and/or digitize any part of the USAF Academy campus without prior coordination and approval through with the
      USAF Academy Directorate of Admissions, the USAF Academy Anti-terrorism Officer (ATO), and the building manager and/or occupant(s) of the
      office or building which is being filmed/digitized.  The USAF Academy Directorate of Admissions POC as identified in SOW paragraph 5 will
      assist in coordination/approval activities.




   b. Constraints. Ensuring the safety of cadets and the USAF Academy campus in general is a potential program constraint.  Avatars will not be
      allowed to move from one building to another.  The virtual campus will not detail the entire layout of the USAF Academy campus and will be
      limited to those areas specified in SOW paragraph 2a.  Users will have a menu from which to select/visit specified areas.  The avatars will
      pop-up inside the building.  ATO will coordinate on and approve contractor digitization prior to launching the USAF Academy virtual campus
      tour.


      6.   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.  The Contractor shall provide a Program Manager (PM) and alternate(s) responsible for contract performance and
      continuity.  The Contractor shall identify a Program Manager with authority to act for the Contractor relating to daily contract
      operations, performance, and progress in order to resolve issues within a reasonable timeframe.


7.  DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE.   Acceptance of the USAF Academy digitized virtual campus tour is subject to beta testing by the Directorate of
Admissions and approval of the ATO.  Tour program will not be accepted and/or launched until beta testing and ATO approval has been
accomplished.

8.  POINTS OF CONTACT.  The government point of contact for the USAF Academy Directorate of Admissions (RR) is Ms. LeAnn Nelson at 719-333-9211.
All contractual questions shall be directed to 10 CONS.

9.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.  The Contractor shall comply with all Federal, State, Local, Air Force, and Base Installation laws, codes,
regulations, and statutes applicable to performance of this contract. It is the Contractor's responsibility to obtain and adhere to all
applicable standards.  The Contractor shall be responsible for complying with all local, state and federal safety guidelines.

10. INSTALLATION SECURITY.  The service provider shall adhere to the installation security requirements as provided for in AFI 31-601,
Industrial Security Program Management, Chapters 1, 2, 7, and 8, and USAFA Supplement to AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management,
Chapter 7, paragraph 7.3; Chapters 8 and 9, as applicable. When work under this contract requires unescorted entry to controlled or restricted
areas, the service provider shall comply with AFI 31-101, Volume 1, The AF Installation Security Program, and AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management, Section 3.24.

11. DATA RIGHTS and RIGHTS IN COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND COMPUTER SOFTWARE DOCUMENTATION.   This acquisition is determined to be commercial and
Section 2320 (b) (1) of Title 10 U.S.C. which establishes that commercial items are developed at private expense.   Further, as specified under
DFARS, for acquisition for commercial computer software, the government shall have only the rights specified in the license under which the
commercial computer software or commercial computer software documentation was obtained.   The government is relying on information submitted in
offeror proposals to establish the proper patent indemnity, data rights, and computer software rights clauses.   The government anticipates that
FAR 52.227-3, 52.227-14, 52.227-18, and 52.227-19 may apply.   Contractors are encouraged to provide information on standard practices.

12. LEVEL OF EFFORT REQUIRED

Anticipated program completion is estimated to no more than a one year.

13. EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR TO AWARD

     a. Technical Solution and Considerations – Considers factors such as the feasibility of and innovative approach,  ability of the offer to
        meet all listed requirements,  delivery leadtime,  proposed Beta Testing solutions,  ability to provide complete and all encompassing
        product, and the usefulness of proposed deliverables.  Offers that propose Commercial “Off the Shelf” products or basic platform that
        require the government to add on to get the desired result will not be considered.   Technical assessment will be rated as pass or fail.




     b. Price – The total proposed price will be reviewed for reasonableness as it relates to the proposed approach.


     c. Past Performance and Special Considerations – ALL offers must provide an existing sample of the product they propose.  In addition to
        providing the sample the offeror may provide pertinent past performance information that relates experience directly to the acquisition
        for considerations.  Specific experience working with virtual tours and experience with college recruitment will be considered.  All
        past performance information and samples must describe offeror’s own work, meaning that a contractor may not take credit for providing a
        platform to customer clients where the customer client has added on to the product, and call it an existing sample.  Past Performance
        will be rated as high-confidence or low-confidence.


All offers must provide for an all inclusive product to be considered.  Contract award will be made to the offeror representing the best overall
value to the Government (this may or may not be the offeror with the lowest evaluated price), all cost and non-cost factors considered.

14.  PROPOSAL CONTENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Offeror must submit proposals IAW FAR 52.212-1, Instruction to Offerors and proposals are due no later than 6:00 pm, MST, 25 Sep 2009.  In
addition to FAR 52.212-1, Instruction to Offerors, the offeror shall ensure the proposal contents include:

     a. Technical Considerations and milestone schedule.


     b. Current Sample of Work


     c. Pricing according to the Bid Schedule


     d. Special Considerations (to include pertinent past performance information).  Past performance references will be limited to no more than
        3 past performance contacts.

15.  DEFINITIONS FOR EVALUATION CRITERIA:

Rating Definitions for Technical Evaluation include High Confidence, Medium Confidence, and Low Confidence.

   a. Pass- Offeror may be given a “PASS” rating if the offeror’s proposal meets all requirements of the solicitation,  there is strong
      confidence that the required Beta Testing proposed is sufficient,  and the proposed milestone schedule will meet the agencies needs.


   b. Fail- Offeror may be rated a “Fail” rating if the offeror’s proposal Does Not meets all requirements of the solicitation, the proposed Beta
      Testing proposed is not sufficient, or milestone schedule will not meet agency needs.

Rating Definitions for Past Performance include High Confidence, Medium Confidence, and Low Confidence.

   a. High Confidence- Offeror may be rated as High Confidence if the offeror’s sample displays that offeror has the ability to meet the all
      requirements of the solicitation, shows that the offeror has prior experience providing virtual tours specifically designed for college
      recruitment, shows past experience working with college recruitment activities, and/or past performance information submitted is positive
      and a pertinent to the acquisition.   Proposal that show prior experience working virtual immersion tours with college and university
      recruitment activities is considered more relevant than those who do not show specific experience with college recruitment activities.


   b. Medium Confidence- Offeror may be rated as Medium Confidence if the offeror’s sample displays that offeror has the ability to meet the
      minimum or most important requirements of the solicitation,  shows that the offeror has some prior experience providing virtual immersion
      tours although not specifically for college recruitment, and/or past performance information submitted is positive, shows that the
      contractor is able to perform all aspects of the requirement, and past performance information shows some pertinence to the acquisition.

   c. Low Confidence- Offeror may be rated as Low Confidence if the offeror’s sample displays that offeror Does Not have the ability to meet the
      all requirements of the solicitation, shows no prior experience providing virtual immersion tours as outlined in the solicitation, and/or
      past performance information submitted is negative and/or not pertinent to the acquisition.

