































































				LEFT BLANK












1.0 	 INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND

The GSA Advantage! Suite (referred to as GSA Advantage! in this document) is a suite of e-commerce applications (Advantage!, customer virtual storefront, eLibrary, eBuy, etc) developed and maintained by the General Service Administration’s (GSA) Federal Acquisition Service (FAS). It serves as an e-commerce portal for Government (federal, state and local) agencies to acquire the goods and services required to carry out the agency’s mission. Much like commercial online portals, GSA Advantage! enables users to browse and search products, perform price comparisons, create, park and forward shopping carts, place orders, manage delivery locations, maintain multiple payment sources, and perform secure check outs. GSA Advantage! has over 500,000 registered users and provides access to over 31 million products and services offered by more than 17,000 vendors. 



In early 2011, GSA Advantage! underwent a technology upgrade to ensure that the application suite is hosted by a robust and scalable platform. Some of the modifications included a new search engine, updated customer interface.  As part of ongoing efforts to modernize core business systems, improve customer experience, reduce operations/maintenance costs, and increase operational flexibility, GSA is conducting an assessment of GSA Advantage!. This assessment will focus on both strategic business alignment considerations as well as a high level assessment of core capabilities.  It is expected that the search functionality will be among the first assessed.

 

2.0	REQUIREMENTS

Task 1: Assess FAS E-commerce Requirements / Vision

The primary objective of this task is to develop and document FAS’s e-commerce vision. The contractor will interview key FAS leaders and stakeholders (estimated 15 - 25 interviews; as identified by GSA) to assess strategic vision, business objectives, priorities, and desired functionalities from a FAS e-commerce portal.   As part of this process, the contractor is also expected to provide FAS leaders with insight on leading industry models for meeting e-commerce needs.  The contractor shall summarize key findings from the interview sessions and facilitate a workshop to re-confirm common understanding across the organization.



Deliverables: 

E-commerce Vision and Capabilities Document, to include confirmation of GSA Advantage! Components 



Task 2:	Assess GSA Advantage! 

The contractor will assess current GSA Advantage!  search, data infrastructure, hosting,  processes and operations/maintenance costs in the context of FAS business and customer requirements as well as industry best practices. This task will comprise of the following activities 

Analysis of current processes and key business rules (vendor data submission, data validation,  quality control measures, etc)

Analysis of current technology infrastructure (software tools and configuration, search optimization parameters,  etc)

Analysis of “Online Shopping” user experience; including the ability to quickly locate desired products and services, presentation and categorization of products, etc

Benchmark GSA Advantage! search results with other commercial e-commerce sites of comparable business volume in terms of response times, relevancy, etc 

Analysis of ease of accommodating new customer requirements (such as customer workflow, establishment of new virtual stores, etc)



Deliverables: 

GSA Advantage! Business and Technical Infrastructure Analysis Document

Benchmark Testing Results and Analysis Document

	

Task 3:	Perform gap analysis and define solution roadmap 

The contractor will perform a gap analysis to highlight areas of deficiencies within GSA Advantage! in comparison to the FAS business vision and industry best practices. The contractor shall also develop and present GSA with a roadmap to transition from the current state environment to the desired state. The roadmap will include an assessment of viable strategic solution options. The scope of this task includes - 

Assessment of alternative models for achieving FAS e-commerce objectives

GSA Advantage! enhancement recommendations

Business rules (logic) and processes

Technology platforms and associated configuration parameters; including recommendations for search optimization in the current infrastructure

Data quality assurance measures

Deliverables: 

Gap Analysis Document 

GSA Advantage! Solution Roadmap Document, with multiple strategic solution options and preliminary recommendations

3.0 	DELIVERABLES

The Contractor will be responsible for submitting the two (2) copies of following deliverables in hard as well as soft copy to the project manager and Contracting Officer; per the schedule established below.





4.0	PERIOD AND PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance for this statement of work will commence on contract award date and will end after five months (20 weeks) of the contract award date. 



Primary work associated with this effort will be performed in Crystal City, VA. The contractor may choose to work at an off-site location when interaction with GSA team members is not required. 



5.0	PROGRAM MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE 

5.1	GSA will establish a project team consisting of representatives from all FAS portfolios as well as FAS CIO organization upon contract award. A Government project manager will be assigned to the project; who will serve as the primary interface to the contractor for all project related activities.



5.2	The contractor will be responsible for adhering to standard project management principles for the duration of this project. The following project management components will be provided by the contractor – 

 













6.0	ASSUMPTIONS

All research and documentation performed under this statement of work will be owned by GSA. Internal findings, documentation, analysis as well as final deliverables shall not be released or shared with anyone unless explicitly authorized in writing by the GSA Contracting Officer. 



7.0 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION

7.1 Inspection and Acceptance



Inspection and acceptance will occur in accordance with FAR 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies – Fixed-Price and FAR 52.246-4, Inspection of Services – Fixed-Price.  Government inspection and acceptance will be performed by the COTR.  



7.2  Unsatisfactory Work  



Performance by the Contractor to correct defects found by the Government as a result of quality assurance surveillance and by the Contractor as a result of quality control, shall be at its’ own expense and without additional reimbursement by the Government.



7.3  Invoices and Payment Information



The Contractor shall submit invoices for payments in accordance with the format contained in GSAM 552.232-70, Invoice Requirements, to be considered proper for payment.  



7.4  Payment Information 



The Contractor shall provide the following payment information for GSA use. It must be an exact match with the information under the Contractor’s DUNS number in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR), . Mismatched information will result in rejected invoices and payments.



Company Name – Legal Business Name and DBA (Doing Business As) Name

Mailing Address – Contact and Address Information

Remittance Address – Remit To Address Information

Employer’s Identification Number – Federal Tax ID

DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System)



7.5  Invoice Information. 



The Contractor shall provide the following information on each invoice submitted to GSA’s finance center.



Invoices shall include---



Name and address of the Contractor; 

Invoice date and number     

Contract number and contract line item number; 

Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; 

Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; 

Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; 

Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and     

Taxpayer Identification Number (T1N). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information



The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required.



If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Central Contractor Registration, or FAR 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedure.



EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.



7.6  Invoice Submittal. 



Monthly invoices should be submitted within five business days of the last day of the invoicing period.  The GSA ACT number (from GSA Form 300, Box 4) MUST be on all monthly invoices.  Original copies of invoices must be submitted for acceptance to GSA Finance. Submission of invoice to GSA Finance may occur via regular mail to address below, or their website, . Mailing address is in Block 24 of GSA Form 300. For assistance submitting to the GSA Finance website, see the section on Vendor Express & Obtain password for email notification. To obtain invoice payment status, please call 817-978-2408 or access the website at .



GSA BCEB

 





If the Contractor submits a revised invoice, the revised invoice must include: 1) a unique invoice number, 2) a brief explanation, and 3) a cross-reference to any previous invoice submittals for tracking purposes and avoiding duplication. An original invoice number may be made unique by appending the letter “R” plus a number to it. For example, INV12345 (original) becomes INV12345R1 (revised). If this invoice were to be submitted a second time, the invoice number would be INV12345R2. This pattern can be repeated as needed. 



 7.7  Disclosure of Information



Information made available to the Contractor by the Government for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor agrees to assume responsibility for protecting the confidentiality of Government records, which are not public information.  Each Contractor or employee of the Contractor to whom information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the Contractor that such information may be disclosed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein.

7.8 Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) Designation



After Contract award, the Contracting Officer will appoint a COR and issue a COR Designation Letter stating the authority of the COR.  The Contractor will receive a copy of the written designation.  



The COR is not authorized to change any terms or conditions of the Contract.  Changes in the Contract requirements, price or terms and conditions shall only be made by the CO via properly executed modifications to the Contract.



7.9 Modification Authority



Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this Contract, the Contracting Officer shall be the only individual authorized to:



• Accept nonconforming work,

• Waive any requirement of this Contract, or

• Modify any term or condition of this Contract.



7.10 Compliance With 508



Exempt under Section 1194.3 of the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, which implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.



7.11 Problem Resolution 



The Contractor shall bring problems, or potential issues, affecting performance to the attention of the COTR and the Contracting Officer as soon as possible. Verbal reports will be followed up with written reports when directed.   This notification shall not relieve the Contractor of its responsibility to correct problems for which they are responsible.  The Contractor will work cooperatively with the Government to resolve issues as they arise.


7.12 Past Performance Information 



In accordance with FAR 42.15 Contractor Performance Information, past performance evaluations shall be prepared for any Delivery/Task Order that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. For severable Delivery/Task Orders, interim evaluations will be required prior to exercising any option periods.   For non-severable Delivery Orders, evaluations must be collected, coordinated and reported upon completion of the Delivery Order.  



The Government will provide and record Past Performance Information for acquisitions over $100,000 utilizing the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS). The CPARS allows Contractors to view and comment on the Government's evaluation of the Contractor's performance before it is finalized. Once the Contractor’s past performance evaluation is finalized in CPARS it will be transmitted into the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS).



Contractors are required to register in CPARS, so Contractors may review and comment on past performance reports submitted.



Contractors must register at the following websites:



	CPARS: http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/

	PPIRS:  



8.0 CONTRACT CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



This Contract is subject to the terms and conditions of the following clauses and are hereby incorporated in this Contract.











8.1  CONTRACT CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT



FAR 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (Jan 2011)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-  78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

 X (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

X(4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

__ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) ( note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). 

__ (7) , Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (8) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (9) [Reserved] 

 X (10)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (11)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (12) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

__ (13)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

  _ (14) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

__ (15) , Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (16)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

__ (17) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (18) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (19) , Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

__ (20)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (). 

 X  (21) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

    (22) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

__ (23) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

 X (24) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

 X (25) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). 

 X (26) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

 X (27) , Employment Reports on Veterans, (Sep 2010) (). 

__ (28) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

__ (29) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

__ (30)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (31) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (32)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

 X (33) , Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513). 

__ (34) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (35)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (36) , Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

 X (37) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (38) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (39) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (40) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (41) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

 X (42) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

__ (43) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (44) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (45) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (46)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__ (1) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (2) , Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at , Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR , Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.



FAR 52.217-8 Option To Extend Services (NOV 1999)



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed six (6) months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within the final thirty (30) calendar days of the performance of the contract.

8.2  GSA SPECIFIC CONTRACT CLAUSES 

Contract Closeout:  The Contractor shall submit a final invoice within forty-five (45) calendar days after the end of the Performance Period.  After the final invoice has been paid the Contractor shall furnish a completed and signed Release of Claims (GSA Form 1142) to the Contracting Officer.  This release of claims is due within fifteen (15) calendar days of final payment.

ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCI)

 	

All actual or potential OCI situations shall be handled in accordance with FAR Subpart 9.5.  "Offeror" as used in this solicitation section addressing OCIs shall include all vendors that the company submitting this proposal has entered into a prime contractor subcontractor relationship with in connection with its proposal submission for this acquisition.

 

If the Offeror is currently providing support or anticipates providing support to the Government  that presents an actual or potential OCI with the requirements for this acquisition, OR, If the Offeror is currently performing or anticipates performing any other work for the Government under any proposal for any solicitation relating to the requirements for this contract, the Offeror shall include in its revised proposal submission:(1) a statement identifying and describing the actual or potential OCI, and (2) a proposed OCI mitigation plan detailing the Offeror's recommendation for how the potential OCI may be avoided, neutralized and/or mitigated. If the Government determines an OCI cannot avoided, neutralized, or mitigated, the offeror may be excluded from consideration for award.



ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: PRECLUSION FROM IMPLEMENTATION CONTRACT (DESIGN/IMPLEMENT)



This contract may call for the Contractor to furnish important services in support of the design of specific activities. In accordance with the principles of FAR Subpart 9.5, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE INELIGIBLE TO FURNISH, AS A PRIME OR SUBCONTRACTOR OR OTHERWISE, THE IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES FOR ANY ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH IT PROVIDES SUBSTANTIAL DESIGN SERVICES EXCEPT FOR SUCH SERVICES THAT MAY BE FURNISHED UNDER THIS CONTRACT, unless the Head of the Contracting Activity, in consultation with GSA's Competition Advocate, authorizes a waiver (in accordance FAR 9.503) determining that preclusion of the Contractor from the implementation contract would not be in the Government's interest.  



ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: PRECLUSION FROM FURNISHING CERTAIN SERVICES AND RESTRICTION ON USE OF INFORMATION (EVALUATION) 



This contract calls for the Contractor to furnish important services in support of the evaluation of GSA Advantage!.  In accordance with the principles of FAR Subpart 9.5, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE INELIGIBLE TO FURNISH, AS A PRIME OR SUBCONTRACTOR OR OTHERWISE, IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES UNDER ANY CONTRACT OR TASK ORDER THAT RESULTS IN RESPONSE TO FINDINGS, PROPOSALS, OR RECOMMENDATIONS IN AN EVALAUTION REPORT WRITTEN BY THE CONTRACTOR.  THIS PRECLUSION WILL APPLY TO ANY SUCH AWARDS MADE WITHIN 18 MONTHS OF GSA ACCEPTING THE REPORT, unless the Head of the Contracting Activity, in consultation with GSA's Competition Advocate, authorizes a waiver (in accordance FAR 9.503) determining that preclusion of the Contractor from the implementation work would not be in the Government's interest.  



Key Personnel 

The key personnel specified in this contract are considered to be essential to work performance. At least 30 days prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs or contracts (or as soon as possible, if an individual must be replaced, for example, as a result of leaving the employ of the Contractor), the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and shall submit comprehensive justification for the diversion or replacement request (including proposed substitutions for key personnel) to permit evaluation by the Government of the impact on performance under this contract. The Contractor shall not divert or otherwise replace any key personnel without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Government may modify the contract to add or delete key personnel at the request of the Contractor or Government



The following individuals are designated as key personnel under this contract:

_____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________





#

Associated

Task

Deliverable 

Due Date

1

Task 1

E-commerce Vision and Capabilities Document

5 weeks after contract award

2

Task 2

GSA Advantage! Business and Technical Infrastructure Analysis Document

10 weeks after contract award

3

Task 2

Benchmark Testing Results and Analysis Document

12 weeks after contract award

4

Task 3

Gap Analysis Document

15 weeks after contract award

5

Task 3

GSA Advantage! Solution Roadmap Document

19 weeks after contract award



#

Component Name

Component Description

Frequency

Due Date

1

Status Report

Provide latest status of activities within each task, including current issues, and the steps taken towards resolving them

Weekly

Every Monday by COB

2

Project Schedule

Outlines the tasks and effort required to complete all deliverables

Monthly

First draft due 1 week after contract award; Updates due on the first day of each month after

3

Risk Mitigation Plan

Outlines the risks for each task

Monthly

First draft due 1 week after contract award; Updates due on the first day of each month after



CLAUSE NUMBER

TITLE

DATE

52.202-1

Definitions 

JUL 2004

52.204-4

Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper

MAY 2011

52.204-7

Central Contractor Registration

APR 2008

52.209-7

Information Regarding Responsibility Matters

JAN 2011

52.209-9

Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters



JAN 2011

52.212-4

Contract Terms and Conditions – Commercial Items

JUN 2010

52.219-1

Small Business Program Representations

APR 2011

52.219-6

Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside 

JUN 2003

52.225-25

Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran—Certification

SEP 2010

52.232-1

Payments 

APR 1984

52.233-4

Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim

OCT 2004

52.239-1

Privacy or Security Safeguards

AUG 1996
GENERAL SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
Federal Acquisition Service

ATTACHMENT B

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS


REQUEST FOR QUOTE NO: QS-RFQ-1012-001



                                                           ISSUE DATE: November 7, 2011


                                                       CLOSING DATE/TIME: December 2, 2011
                                                                  4:00 p.m. EST



   1. CONTRACT VEHICLE: Firm Fixed-Price Contract

   2. ISSUING OFFICE:


      GSA/FAS/QSOA
      2200 Crystal Drive, Suite 904
      Arlington, VA 22202
      (256) 468-3632
      deborah.joeckel@gsa.gov

All contractual and technical questions must be submitted in writing via email to deborah.joeckel@gsa.gov no later than 25 November 2011, 5:00
P.M. EST.

Oral communication/telephone communication is unacceptable. All questions must be submitted in writing to the individual identified above.


   3. REQUIREMENT DESCRIPTION:


The Contractor shall furnish a comprehensive solution to include all materials, tools, equipment, expertise, and labor to perform the work
required by this solicitation and the awarded contract.


   4. REQUEST FOR QUOTES:

This procurement will follow the commercial items and services procedures set forth in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.102 (g),
and FAR Subpart 13.

     1. Quote Submission

      Quotes shall be submitted electronically no later than 4:00 pm, Eastern Standard Time, 2 December 2011. Quotes received after this date and
      time will be neither accepted nor considered. A copy of the quotes shall be submitted electronically to the following email address:


            deborah.joeckel@gsa.gov

      Quotes received at any other office or location will be neither accepted nor considered.


     2. General Instructions

      The response to the request for quote shall clearly demonstrate knowledge of the tasks and deliverables as stated in the Statement of Work,
      as well as convey the Vendor’s capability for transforming its understanding into successful performance under the resultant Task Order.

      Simple statements of compliance without a detailed description of how compliance will be accomplished may not be considered sufficient
      evidence that the Vendor can meet the technical requirements. Failure to explain a Vendor's ability to meet all requirements will result in
      the Vendor's quote not being considered for award.


      Clarity and completeness of quotes is of the utmost importance. The response to the RFQ must therefore be written in a practical, clear and
      concise manner.  Quantitative terms should be used whenever possible and qualitative adjectives should be avoided to the maximum extent
      possible.


      Individuals responsible for preparing material that may be source selection information shall mark the cover page and each page that the
      individual believes contains source selection information with the legend ''Source Selection Information".

     3. Prospective Contractor Questions

      All questions concerning this RFQ shall be received by Deborah Joeckel via email not later than 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, 25
      November 2011, at deborah.joeckel@gsa.gov  with the following subject line “Questions for Asia and Europe Communication – QS-RFQ-1012-001;
      Vendor's name.”

Questions submitted other than as stated above will not be considered for response. In posing questions, Vendors must cite the relevant section,
paragraph, and page number.

      Questions should be written in a way that enables clear understanding of the Vendor’s issues or concerns. Statements expressing opinions,
      sentiments, or conjectures are not considered valid inquiries and will not be receive a response. Further, Vendors are reminded that the
      Contracting Officer will not address hypothetical questions aimed at receiving a potential "evaluation decision."

     4. Quote Content and Submission Instructions

The Offeror shall submit one (1) quote electronically containing files that can be opened with standard commercial software, such as Microsoft
Office.  Nothing in hard copy shall be submitted; everything shall be contained in the electronic quote submitted electronically submitted and
delivered to the email address listed in Section 4.1.

   a)  By submission of a quote on electronic media, the Offeror must ensure that the submission is readable, in the format specified, and has
      been verified as free of computer viruses.  Prior to any evaluation, the Government will check all files for viruses and ensure that all
      the information is readable.  In the event that any files are defective (unreadable), the Government may only evaluate the readable
      electronic files.  However, if the defective (unreadable) media renders a significant deficiency in the Offeror's proposal, the government
      may consider the proposal incomplete and not further consider such proposals for evaluation.

   b)  The Offeror must ensure that:

       (1) It has verified that its electronic proposal is readable on the hardware and software operating system format specified below:

            Windows XP Professional 2002

      (2) It has verified that the electronic proposals are free of computer viruses using standard commercial anti-virus software.

      (c) A proposal that fails to conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) above may be subject to interception or delay at
      Governmental electronic communications portals.  This interception or delay may result in the proposal being lost, deleted, destroyed, or
      forwarded in such a manner that the proposal arrives at the target destination past the time and date of the deadline for submission
      established in the solicitation.  In the event that a proposal is lost, deleted, or destroyed due to the Offeror's failure to conform to
      the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, such proposal will be considered to have never been delivered to the Government.  In the
      event that a proposal is delayed due to the Offeror's failure to conform to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the proposal
      will be treated as late in accordance with the provision of this solicitation entitled Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of
      Proposals.


      The quote shall be marked with the solicitation number (QS-RFQ-1012-001) and the Vendor’s name.  The sections will be included on the
      single electronic submission in such a manner as to allow them to be copied from the email system so that they may be distributed
      separately. Each section will be titled, appropriately, as Cover Page, SF 1449 Amendments, Technical Capability and Approach, Project Plan,
      Past Performance/Corporate Experience, or Pricing Schedule.

      Each Offeror shall submit all information described below.  The Offeror shall provide one (1)   electronic copy of their quote submitted in
      five separate, clearly delineated sections as described below in (a) through (f). The pages of each section will be numbered separately.

           (a) Cover Page: The Cover Page is limited to two (2) pages.


            (b) Strategic Capability and Approach:  The Strategic Capability and Approach shall describe the methodology for accomplishing each
           task and include a detailed plan for accomplishing all of the requirements of the RFQ. There is a twenty-five (25) page limit on the
           strategic capability and approach section (inclusive of text, charts, etc.).


           The Offeror shall identify and describe the methodology and analytical techniques to be used in fulfilling the requirements
           identified in the solicitation.  The Offeror shall tailor the technical approach to achieve the requirements, objectives and goals as
           identified in the solicitation.  The strategic approach shall clearly describe the following:


                 1. The Offeror's strategic approach/solution for accomplishing the support services, objectives and tasks.  The discussion shall
                    clearly demonstrate the Offeror's understanding of the work to be performed and identify the strategic solution for each task
                    including the approach, methodology, and analytical techniques to perform the requirements outlined in the RFQ, inclusive of
                    all tasks.  The Offeror shall discuss the complexity of each task area.  The Offeror shall identify the quantity and mix of
                    labor for each task.  NO pricing shall be included in the technical portion.

                 2. The Offeror shall map the quote to the statement of work and include milestones.  The Offeror shall include their plan to
                    timely deliver all reports and other deliverables required by this RFQ.

                 3. The Offeror shall identify the management approach, techniques, and tools that the Offeror will use to accomplish the
                    objectives and requirements identified in this solicitation.  The management approach shall clearly describe their approach
                    for providing program management support, process management and control, organizational structure, project status and cost
                    (to include planned versus actual expenditures) reporting, program metrics and corrective actions.

                 4. The Offeror’s management methodology for handling lines of authority and communication, organizational structure, and problem
                    resolution methodologies.  Discuss how Contractor personnel will be held accountable for performance.

                 5. The Offeror’s approach to risk management during the contract from both a strategic and management perspective, and the
                    planned actions to mitigate or eliminate risks;


           (c) Past Performance/Corporate Experience: There is a seven (7) page limit on the past performance/corporate experience section; a
           limit of five (5) pages for past performance and two (2) pages for corporate experience.


           The following information shall be included in the past performance/corporate experience portion:


           1.  Past performance reflects the proven quality of your company’s performance on specific tasks while experience relates the
              applicability of your company’s performance in relation to the requirements of the Statement of Work.   Offerors shall submit
              information concerning three, separate projects it has completed in the last three years for the same or similar work required by
              the RFQ.  Commercial, state, local, and Federal Government projects may be used for purposes of this factor.   Past projects
              discussed shall be similar in scope to the tasks outlined in this RFQ.  Under no circumstances shall Offerors submit information
              concerning more than three projects---to do so will result in the Offeror’s quote not being considered.


              Each past performance project will be evaluated separately, and then one combined evaluation for past performance will be given.
              In the extent past performance information is received on either only one or no projects, each missing past performance project
              will receive a neutral rating and then one combined evaluation for past performance will be given.

              The following shall be provided for each of the projects listed in the past performance section: the contract or project's name or
              number, total number of hours expended, total dollar value ,the period of performance,  a brief description of the work performed.
              The description shall demonstrate the contractor’s ability, to perform the services outlined in this RFQ. The description shall
              also explain how the technical similarities and complexities of previous tasks compare to those outlined in the RFQ.

              The name, address, telephone number, fax number and email address of the COTR or client will also be included. COTRs/clients will
              be contacted to obtain feedback on product performance, quality, timeliness, cost control, business conduct and customer
              satisfaction.  Vendors shall provide to the POCs from the two, separate projects it has completed in the last three years
              required by the RFQ the Past Performance questionnaire (Attachment 4) and ask them to fill out the questionnaire and ensure the
              POCs return the questionnaire to Deborah Joeckel at deborah.joeckel@gsa.gov prior to the close of the RFQ. Questionnaires received
              after the date and time of closing of the RFQ will be rated as neutral.

              Additionally, Offerors shall provide a list of any contracts or task orders that ended in terminations for cause or termination
              for convenience within the past three (3) years and briefly explain the facts and circumstances in each such instance. The Offeror
              shall include a POC and contact information for the customer.  If there are no such terminations, the Offeror shall state as much.



              Finally, Offerors shall provide a list of contacts for contracts and/or task orders under which cure notices or show cause letters
              were issued to the Offeror.  Offerors shall briefly explain the facts and circumstances in each such instance. The Vendor shall
              include a POC and contact information for the customer. If there were no such actions taken, the Offeror shall state as much.


              The Government will use all available information in its evaluation of past performance. This may include various federal, state
              and local past performance databases, including, but not limited to, Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS). The
              evaluation team may research Contractor performance on any known federal, state local and commercial contract.   Additionally,
              personal knowledge of Contractor performance may be utilized by evaluation team members as long as sufficient documentation exists
              to support its position.


           2. The Offeror shall discuss its Corporate Experience that reflects/identifies experience (strategic, analytical, benchmarking,
              roadmap, etc.) on projects that are similar in size, scope, and complexity to the requirements contained in Section 2.0 of the
              Statement of Work, Attachment A of the Solicitation.   The Offeror shall discuss the scope of work, the period during which the
              work occurred, the dollar value of the work performed, the client and project, the specific responsibilities of the Offeror, major
              deliverables produced, performance measures/service levels applied, any awards that were received for superior performance, and
              any problems or issues that occurred and the corrective action taken.

              Offerors are expected to have at least three (3) years of Corporate Experience.  Vendors shall submit a two-page (maximum)
              narrative describing the company’s corporate experience providing the types of services stated in Section 2.0 of the Statement of
              Work.  Offerors must have provided these services to either a Government or commercial entity for a minimum of three (3) years.
              The vendor’s narrative must also include the following:


                 a.  Full disclosure of all direct or indirect financial interest, agreements and affiliations with other firms and corporations
                    (i.e., Gold agreement with Oracle, prime vendor for Microsoft, etc.)

           (d) Pricing Schedule:  The pricing schedule section stating a firm-fixed price to perform the services identified in the Statement of
           Work shall be submitted in accordance with the Pricing Schedule Format (Attachment 3) to the RFQ.   An authorized official who can
           obligate the Offeror shall sign the SF 1449 (Attachment 5), with blocks 17a, 17b, 30a, 30b, and 30c completed and all amendments with
           blocks 15a, 15b and 15c completed.

           Price quotes should reflect the Offeror’s best price.  The price portion of the quote should include skill mix, number of hours per
           skill mix, labor categories or other direct costs.  A total Firm Fixed-Price shall be submitted for the base period of performance.
           Price quotes shall include Attachment 1 (Contractor Nondisclosure Agreement) and Attachment 2 (Certificate of Nondisclosure Agreement
           for Contractor Employees).


           NOTE:  No Assumptions, Conditions, Exceptions are permitted.  Any response containing Assumptions, Conditions, or Exceptions will be
           rejected and is ineligible for award.


   5. QUOTE EVALUATION


        1.  Evaluation Criteria and Selection Process

      Evaluations will be conducted in accordance with the criteria set forth in this RFQ following the ordering procedures of Federal
      Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 12.106.  Award of the contract will be made to the Offeror that represents the overall best value to meet the
      Government’s needs.  Best value is defined as the expected outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government’s estimation, provides the
      greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement, in accordance with FAR 2.101.


      The best value will be determined by (1) comparing differences in the value of non-price factors with differences in price to the
      Government (on a regional and/or site by site cost).  In making this comparison the Government is more concerned with obtaining superior
      non price features (technical acceptability features including the project plan and past performance) than with making award at the lowest
      overall cost to the Government.  However, the Government will not make an award at a significantly higher overall price to the Government
      to achieve slightly superior non-price feature. In other words, price is not expected to be the controlling factor in the selection of a
      Contractor for this RFQ.  However, the degree of importance of price as a factor could become greater depending upon the equality of the
      quotes for other factors evaluated.  Where competing quotes are determined to be substantially equal after evaluation of all non-price
      factors, the total price and other price factors could become the controlling factor.


        2. Oral Presentations


     a) In addition to submitted written technical proposals, individual Offeror presentations will be conducted in the Washington DC area
        during the week of 5 December 2011.  Each Offer will be given approximately 45 minutes to present their technical proposal (less cost
        data) to the Source Selection Evaluation Team (SSET).

     b) The specific technical evaluation criteria which must be addressed in the oral presentation are set forth below.


         1) Schedule for Presentation.  Presentations will be scheduled with Offerors as soon as possible after the closing date for receipt of
            quotes.  The presentations will be scheduled as tightly as possible, but the duration of the oral presentation process will be
            dependent upon the number of offers received.  The order in which Offerors will make their presentations to the SSET will be
            determined by a drawing of lots by the Contracting Officer after receipt of quotes.


         2) Once notified of their scheduled presentation date and time, Offerors shall complete their presentations on the scheduled date and
            time.  Requests from Offerors to reschedule their presentations will not be entertained and no rescheduling of presentations will be
            done unless determined necessary by the Government to resolve unanticipated problems or delays encountered in the presentation
            process.

         3) Form of Presentations.  Offerors will make their oral presentations in person to the Source Selection Evaluation Team.  Submission of
            videotapes or other forms of media containing the presentation for evaluation is not authorized and such presentations shall be
            rejected.  Offerors are free to structure their oral presentations using 8-1/2” x 11” computer-generated media.  If the Offeror
            chooses to utilize an electronic projection, they must provide their own equipment.  An overhead projector will be available at the
            oral presentation site.  The number of pages should be reasonable for the stated time limits for the presentation.  Use of these
            visual aids is at the Offeror’s discretion.

         4) Time Limit:  Each Offeror will be provided a 15-minute prior and after the oral presentation.  Each Offeror’s oral presentation shall
            not exceed 45 minutes to address technical approach, corporate experience, and management structure and approach factors.  Following
            the oral presentation will be a 30-minute session for questions and clarifications (will not count against presentation time).  There
            will be a 15-minute break after the 45 minute presentation of technical approach, corporate experience, and management structure and
            approach.  The Contracting Officer reserves the right to terminate the presentation if it overruns the 45 minute time limit.  During
            the presentation, the Source selection Evaluation Team members will not interrupt the Offeror to ask questions (except to request the
            repetition of inaudible words or statements or the explanation of terms that are unknown to them) or otherwise engage the Offeror in
            any dialogue.

         5) Documentation.  At the close of the presentation, the Offeror shall provide the Contracting Officer with a listing of the names,
            firms, and position titles of all presenters and one electronic copy of any presentation materials, such as slides, which have been
            used in the presentation.  The Government will not accept for evaluation any additional documentation (such as procedures manuals,
            administrative handbooks or guides, etc.), which may or may not have been referenced during the presentation.

         6) Offeror's Presentation Team.  Only members of the Offeror's or subcontractor's in-house staff shall participate in the presentation.
            The only exception is that any individuals who are proposed to perform on the contract, such as the Project Manager, but who are not
            currently employed by the Offeror/subcontractor, may participate in the presentation.  For any portion of the work to be
            subcontracted, members of the subcontractor's staff shall make that portion of the presentation relating to the work its firm will be
            performing.  Within those constraints, Offerors shall have the option of selecting the participants to make their firm's oral
            presentation to the SSET.

         7) Clarification of Oral Presentation Points.   After completion of the oral presentation, the Government may request clarification of
            any of the points addressed which are unclear and may ask for elaboration by the Offeror on any point which was not adequately
            supported in the presentation.   Any such interchange between the Offeror and the Government will be for clarification only, and will
            not constitute discussions within the meaning of FAR 15.610. The time required for clarifications will not be counted against the
            Offeror's 45 presentation time limit.

         8) Location: The oral presentation site will be arranged “conference style” with an overhead projector and screen provided.  The
            location will be in the Crystal City, Arlington, VA area.  The Government reserves the right to change the oral presentation site at
            the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer.

     c) Oral presentations will be made at the Offeror’s expense.  The Offeror’s original proposal cannot be changed in any aspect at the oral
        presentation. The oral presentation is only to allow Offerors to clarify portions of their proposal.

        3.  Factors of Evaluation


      With respect to the non-price factors, Offerors are on notice that an Offeror is solely responsible for furnishing in its quote adequate
      details to allow the Government to assess the offer on the factor; an Offeror’s failure to submit adequate details may result in the
      Government assigning weakness or increased risk to successful performance associated with the Offeror’s quote.


      The following factors, in descending order of importance will be used to evaluate all quotes.  All evaluation factors, other than price,
      when combined, are significantly more important than price.


           1. Factor 1: Strategic Capability and Approach:


              The Strategic Capability and Approach factor comprises the following sub-factors, in descending order of importance, and will be
              used to evaluate all quotes:


              SubFactor 1-  Management Approach:  Offerors shall identify the management approach, techniques, and tools that the Offeror will
              use to accomplish the objectives and requirements identified in this solicitation.  The management approach shall clearly describe
              their approach for providing management support, process management and control, organizational structure, project status and cost
              (to include planned versus actual expenditures) reporting, program metrics, and corrective actions.  The Offeror shall clearly
              describe the management methodology for handling lines of authority and communication, and problem resolution methodologies.
              Discuss how Contractor personnel will be held accountable for performance.  Under this factor, the Offeror shall clearly describe
              their approach to risk management during the contract performance from both a technical and management perspective, and the
              planned actions to mitigate or eliminate risks.


              SubFactor 2-  Understanding:  Offerors shall demonstrate an understanding of the strategic, analytical, assessment, benchmarking
              and documentation requirements as set out in this solicitation.  The Offeror shall discuss their methodology and analytical
              techniques to be utilized to ensure that the Government’s requirements are satisfied and the rational for each task listed in the
              SOW and how the outcome/objectives will be achieved.  The Offeror shall demonstrate their knowledge of the current information
              technology environment and the Offeror will use their corporate capabilities to support the requirements of the SOW as well their
              approach for meeting the requirements of each task set forth in the solicitation.  The Offeror shall demonstrate their approach to
              providing new technologies, solutions, and industry best practices throughout the term of the contract.






           2. Factor 2: Past Performance/Corporate Experience

              Past performance reflects the proven quality of the vendor’s performance on specific tasks, while experience relates the
              applicability of the vendor’s performance in relation to the requirements in the Statement of Work.


              SubFactor 1: Past performance information will be verified by contacting the three (3) project references provided by the Vendor
              via Attachment 3.  Past performance will be evaluated based on the relevance of the projects submitted to the current Task Order
              requirement and feedback provided by references.  Offerors are to note that, in conducting this assessment, the Government
              reserves the right to use both data provided by the offeror and data obtained from other sources.   Feedback will address product
              performance, quality, timeliness, cost control, business conduct, and customer satisfaction. Each past performance project will be
              evaluated separately, and then one combined evaluation for past performance will be given. In the event past performance
              information is received on either only one or no projects, each  past performance project will receive a neutral rating and then
              one combined evaluation for past performance will be given.


              SubFactor 2: Corporate experience will be evaluated relating to the quantity and type of work the vendor’s organization has
              performed, as well as the quality, in relation to the requirements stated in the Statement of Work. GSA will evaluate the
              demonstrated experience of the vendor’s organization, its parent company, and its teaming partners, if any, in providing and
              supporting relevant data communications, project management and network monitoring services.


              Evaluation of this factor will focus on projects that are recent (within 3 years) and similar in size, scope, and complexity to
              that discussed in the Statement of Work. GSA will evaluate the vendor’s demonstrated capability to utilize its resources to
              respond to any challenges encountered in providing data communication and/or network connectivity services.   The Government will
              also evaluate the Offeror’s demonstrated experience in resolving issues with stakeholders and governmental regulatory agencies.


           3. Factor 3: Price


              The Offeror’s written cost/price quote will be evaluated to determine price/cost reasonableness.  Prices/Costs that are
              excessively high or low (without sufficient justification) may be considered unrealistic and unreasonable and may receive no
              further consideration.  Price will not receive a rating, it will be considered in determining the overall best value to the
              Government.


              Attachments 1 and 2 will be evaluated to assess whether or not an actual or potential Organizational Conflict of Interest exists.
              If a disclosed conflict of interest is found to exist that cannot be mitigated, avoided, or waived in accordance with FAR Part
              9.5, that Offeror will be ineligible for award.


              As the evaluations of Offeror's strategic capability and approach combined with past performance/corporate experience become more
              equal, price becomes more important.


              Offerors are advised that any requirements presented in this solicitation for which the Offeror does not specifically identify a
              price shall be considered to be included in the price of another item or provided at no cost to the Government.


   6. SELECTION AND AWARD


       1.   Selection and Award


      The Government anticipates awarding a Firm Fixed-Price contract, to the Contractor whose quote is the determined to represent the best
      value to the Government based on the evaluation factors described below.  The Contracting Officer intends to award the contract without
      discussions.  Therefore, each quote should contain the most favorable pricing and technical terms the Offeror can offer to meet the
      requirement.  However, the Contracting Officer reserves the right to hold discussions if necessary.   If discussions are conducted, they
      will occur at the time and place designated by the Contracting Officer. Offerors may be removed from consideration without discussions when
      deemed appropriate by the Contracting Officer.



      The non-cost/price factors are more important that price.

      Evaluation Factors:

           1. Strategic Capability and Approach

           2. Past Performance/Corporate Experience

           3. Price/Cost


      The Contracting Officer expects to award the contract based on initial quotes.  An Offeror taking exception to any terms and conditions may
      be removed from consideration without further evaluation.
.
      Award of the contract to the Offeror, whose quote represents the best value to the Government will be accomplished by furnishing notice of
      the award to the successful contractor.  An Offeror whose quote is no longer being considered for award, or whose quote was not selected
      for award, will be so notified in writing. Such notification will state in general terms the basis of non-selection.


      In order to be considered for award, all Offerors must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) System www.ccr.gov








   7. ATTACHMENTS
     a. Attachment 1 – Contractor NonDisclosure Agreement
     b. Attachment 2 – Certificate of NonDisclosure Agreement for Contractor Employees
     c. Attachment 3 – Pricing Schedule
     d. Attachment 4 – Past Performance Questionnaire
     e. Attachment 5 – Standard Form 1449 (SF 1449)
     f. Attachment A – Statement Of Work





                                                                   ATTACHMENT 1


                                                        CONTRACTOR NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT




AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN    [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR]
AND THE UNITED STATES

1.  Intending to be legally bound, [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] hereby accepts the obligations contained in this agreement in consideration of
[INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] being granted access to sensitive data.  As used in this Agreement, sensitive data is marked or unmarked “sensitive
but unclassified information” (SBU), including oral communications, that meets the standards set by Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Circular A-130 Appendix 3 and the General Service Administration.  I understand any data or systems of records protected from unauthorized
disclosure by the provisions of Title 5, United States Code Sections 552 (often referred to as (“The Freedom of Information Act”) and 552a (“The
Privacy Act”) is/are sensitive data.  In addition, other categories of information, including but not limited to medical, personnel, financial,
investigatory, visa, law enforcement or other information which, if released, could result in harm or unfair treatment to any individual or
group, or could have a negative impact upon individual privacy, federal programs, or foreign relations is sensitive data.  The term includes
data whose improper use or disclosure could adversely affect the ability of the Agency to accomplish its mission, as well as proprietary data
and information received through privileged sources.  Data of this type which requires protection and limited dissemination must be designated
by any official having signing authority for the material.  I understand and accept that by [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] being granted access to
sensitive data, special confidence and trust has been placed in me by the United States Government.

2.  [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] acknowledge that it has been given access to General Service Administration sensitive data to facilitate the
performance of duties assigned to it for compensation. [INSET NAME OF CONTRACTOR] understands its responsibility to safeguard sensitive data
disclosed to it, and to refrain from disclosure sensitive data to persons not requiring access for performance of official duties.  Before
disclosing sensitive data, [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] must determine the recipient’s “need to know” or “need to access” sensitive data.

3.  [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] has been advised that any breach of this Agreement may result in the termination of [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR]
access to sensitive data, which, if such termination effectively negates [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] ability to perform assigned duties, may
lead to the termination of this contract and/or other relationships with the Departments or Agencies that granted it access.  [INSERT NAME OF
CONTRACTOR] is aware that unauthorized release or mishandling of sensitive data may be grounds for adverse action against [INSERT NAME OF
CONTRACTOR].  In addition, should [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] misuse records requiring protection under the Privacy Act, [INSERT NAME OF
CONTRACTOR] has been advised that unauthorized disclosure of data protected by the Privacy Act may constitute a violation, or violations, of
United States criminal law, and that Federally-affiliated workers (including some contract employees) who violate privacy safeguards may be
subject to disciplinary actions, a fine up to $5,000.00, or both.

4.  [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] understands that all sensitive data to which [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] has access or may obtain access by
signing this Agreement is now and will remain the property of, or under the control of the United States Government.  [INSERT NAME OF
CONTRACTOR] agrees that it must return all sensitive data which has, or may come into its possession or for which it is responsible because of
such access:

a) upon demand by an authorized representative of the United States Government; or
b) upon the conclusion of the contract or other relationship with the Department or Agency that last
granted me access to sensitive data; or
(c) upon the conclusion of the contract or other relationship that requires access to sensitive data.


Unless and until [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] is released in writing by an authorized representative of the United States Government, [INSERT
NAME OF CONTRACTOR] understands that all conditions and obligations imposed upon it by this Agreement apply during the time [INSERT NAME OF
CONTRACTOR] is granted access to sensitive data, and at all times thereafter.


5.  In accordance with Public Law No. 108-447, Consolidated Act, 2005, the following is applicable:

 These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by Executive Order No. 12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10,
United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military);
section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste,
fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing
disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the
national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities
Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order
and listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'


6.  [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR] further agrees:


(a) Signed Agreements. The Contractor further agrees to sign an agreement to this effect with carriers, and other private or public entities
providing proprietary data for performance under this contract. As part of this agreement, the Contractor will inform all parties of its
agreement to allow certain Government designated contractors access to all data as described in paragraph (c) below. One copy of each signed
agreement shall be forwarded to the Contracting Officer (CO).
(b) Government Designated Contractors. The Contractor agrees to allow the below listed Government-designated support contractors, possessing
appropriate proprietary agreements and retained by the Government to advise the Government on cost, schedule and technical matters pertaining to
this acquisition, access to any unlimited rights data acquired under the terms and conditions of this contract and to sign reciprocal
nondisclosure agreements with them. One copy of each signed agreement shall be forwarded to the CO.


List designated contractors:
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________

All Government-designated contractors stated herein, or added at a future date shall also enter into nondisclosure agreements with all parties
providing proprietary information to the contractor.

(c) Remedy for Breach. The Contractor agrees that any breach or violation of the certifications or restrictions of this clause shall constitute
a material and substantial breach of the terms, conditions and provisions of the contract and that the Government may, in addition to any other
remedy available, terminate this contract for default in accordance with the provisions of FAR 52.249-6. Nothing in this clause or contract
shall be construed to mean that the Government shall be liable to the owners of proprietary information in any way for the unauthorized release
or use of proprietary information by this contractor or its subcontractors.





GOVERNMENT WITNESS                                       CONTRACTOR ACCEPTANCE
THE EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT WAS                     THE UNDERSIGNED  ACCEPTED
WITNESSED BY THE UNDERSIGNED                  AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF                                                        [INSERT  NAME OF
ONTRACTOR]                                                                     BEFORE ACCESSING SENSITIVE
           DATA OF THE UNITED STATES                                                            GOVERNMENT.






_______________________________________                      _______________________________
SIGNATURE                                             DATE                      SIGNATURE                             DATE






TITLE/POSITION:  ____________________                         TITLE/POSITION:  _______________



TITLE/POSITION:  _______________















                                                                   ATTACHMENT 2

                                                           CERTIFICATE OF NONDISCLOSURE
                                                        AGREEMENT FOR CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES

                                        USC TITLE 41, SECTION 423(d); DISCLOSURE TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
I.  __________________________________________(print or type name), as an employee of _______________________________________ (insert name of
company), a contractor acting under contract to the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), GSA Advantage! Assessment and Enhancement, in
administering an unclassified and/or classified system support for these activities, pursuant to Task Order Number _____________________(insert
contract number), agree not to disclose to any individual business entity or anyone within
_______________________________________________(insert name of employee company) or outside of the company who has not signed a nondisclosure
agreement for the purposes of performing this Task Order: any sensitive, proprietary or source selection information contained in or accessible
through the any of the systems covered under this Task Order.  Proprietary information/data will be handled in accordance with Government
regulations.
I understand that information/data I may be aware of, or possess, as a result of my assignment under this contract may be considered sensitive
or proprietary by GSA and their clients. The contractor's responsibility for proper use and protection from unauthorized disclosure of
sensitive, proprietary and source selection information is described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) section 3.104-5(b). Pursuant to FAR
3.104-5, I agree not to appropriate such information for my own use or to release or discuss such information for my own use or to release it to
or discuss it with third parties unless specifically authorized in writing to do so, as provided above.
This agreement shall continue for a term of five (5) years from the date upon which I last have access to the information there from. Upon
expiration of this agreement, I have a continuing obligation not to disclose sensitive, proprietary, or source selection information to any
person or legal entity unless that person or legal entity is authorized by the head of the agency or the contracting agency or the Contracting
Officer to receive such information. I understand violations of this agreement are subject to administrative, civil and criminal sanctions.
In accordance with Public Law No. 108-447, Consolidated Act, 2005, the following is applicable:

 These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by Executive Order No. 12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10,
United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military);
section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste,
fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing
disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the
national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities
Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order
and listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'
THIS CERTIFICATION CONCERNS A MATTER WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF AN AGENCY OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE MAKING OF A FALSE, FICTITIOUS, OR
FRAUDULENT CERTIFICATION MAY RENDER THE MAKER SUBJECT TO PROSECUTION UNDER TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 1001.
__________________________________                       ________________
 (Signature of Contractor Employee)                                                  Date
__________________________________
(Contractor)
___________________________________
(Employee Telephone Number)

                                                                   ATTACHMENT 3

                                                                  PRICE SCHEDULE


TASK        Description                                             Total Price

Task 1      Assess FAS E-commerce Requirement/Vision                $

Task 2           Assess GSA Advantage!                              $

Task 3           Perform Gap Analysis and define solution Roadmap         $


Total Firm Fixed-Price                                        $

                                          ATTACHMENT 4






                       PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE


Company Being Evaluated: __________________________________________________________________

Contract/Task Number: __________________________________________________________________



Name of Individual Performing Evaluation: ___________________________________________________________________

Company Name:  ___________________________________________________________________

Phone Number: ______________________   email:  ___________________________________________________________________


Project Information:

Type of Contract (circle or bold one): Firm-Fixed-Price, Labor Hours, Time & Materials, Other

Dollar Value of Contract:  ___________________________________________________________________________

Brief Description or Work Performed:

____________________________________________________________________________

____________________________________________________________________________

____________________________________________________________________________




Evaluation:

Please rate the subject firm in accordance with the following standards:

5 = Exceptional     4 = Good     3 = Satisfactory     2 = Marginal     1 = Unacceptable    N/O = Not Observed

|Criteria                                                                        |5      |4      |3      |2      |1      |N/O      |
|1.  Quality of Services – Compliance with Contract Requirements, Technical      |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|Excellence, Accuracy of Reports.                                                |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|2.  Management Controls - Responsiveness, Management of Staff, Project          |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|Management.                                                                     |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|3.  Cost Control – The Contractor’s Ability to Manage the Contract Budget and   |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|Control Costs.                                                                  |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|4.  Schedule Compliance – Timeliness of the Contractor Against the Schedule of  |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|Activities, Milestones and Deliverables.                                        |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|5.  Customer Satisfaction - Customer Satisfaction (reasonable and cooperative   |       |       |       |       |       |         |
|behavior and commitment to customer service).                                   |       |       |       |       |       |         |

Would you hire the subject firm again?   Yes     No

Reason Why:  __________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________
 Please email your response to deborah.joeckel @gsa.gov by 2 December 2011, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern.

