

Request for Information (RFI): NSF SharePoint 2010 Hosting, Operations and Development

Issued by: National Science Foundation
Website: http://www.nsf.gov/



This is a Request for Information (RFI) ONLY, and does not constitute a solicitation.  The purpose of this RFI is to obtain market information on capable sources of supply, industry practices, and input specific to the information and questions provided below.  The Government is not responsible for any cost incurred by industry in furnishing this information.

A response to this RFI is necessary in order to assist NSF in determining the potential levels of interest, adequate competition, and technical capability within the large and small business communities to provide the required services.  However, notwithstanding contract vehicle selection or a Contractor’s standing, firms not responding to the RFI are not precluded from participating in any future solicitation.

NSF BACKGROUND

NSF is an independent agency of the U.S. Government, established by the National Science Foundation Act of 1950.  The mission of the National Science Foundation (NSF) is to fund research and education in science and engineering disciplines while supporting programs to strengthen the scientific and engineering research potential.   Mission activities include receiving research proposals, conducting peer review through the use of panels or electronic messaging, and awarding funds to institutions and their principal investigators. 

NSF does not conduct research or operate laboratories; however, through partnerships with other agencies, states, advisory committees, and academia, it funds research and education in science and engineering. It does this through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements to more than 2,000 colleges, universities, and other research and/or education institutions in all parts of the United States. 

The Foundation serves as a common ground for members of the scientific community by providing a collective point of information for current affairs and accounting for approximately 20 percent of federal support to academic institutions for basic research.  

Each year, NSF receives approximately 40,000 new or renewal support proposals for research, graduate and postdoctoral fellowships, and math/science/engineering education projects; it makes approximately 9,000 new awards. These typically go to universities, colleges, academic consortia, nonprofit institutions, and small businesses.

NSF strives to be on the leading edge of grants administration and management practices. The Foundation was the first Federal agency to explore accomplishing its proposal and award administration functions via electronic means.  From the inception of the FastLane System in 1994, NSF has worked to facilitate business transactions and exchange information between the Foundation and our grantee community.   

In February 2006, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) selected NSF to lead a research-focused grants consortium called Research.gov as part of the Grants Management Line of Business initiative.  OMB selected NSF to lead this initiative for the research community because of NSF’s successful track record with FastLane, focus on the research community, high standards and performance to its customers, and leadership position in the grants community.  Research.gov is a partnership, led by the National Science Foundation (NSF), of Federal grant-making agencies with a shared vision of enhancing customer service for the research community while streamlining and standardizing processes among partner agencies.  NSF is leveraging its FastLane capabilities, experience and expertise to deliver a menu of services for grantees to conduct business with Federal agencies.  

For more information about NSF, please visit our website at http://www.nsf.gov/.



ENVIRONMENT

NSF has a total workforce of about 1,900 at its Arlington, VA, headquarters, including approximately 1,300 career employees, 200 scientists from research institutions on temporary duty, and 400 contract workers.  NSF’s population is varied and is heavily staffed by senior scientists. Nearly one-third of the senior scientists are on temporary (term) one to two year’s duty at NSF.  Consequently, we have many employees who are sophisticated in computing, are pressured by their short tenure, and must learn our environment quickly in order to be productive. We also have a segment of staff, whether temporary (term) or permanent, who tend to explore and test new tools. Although the ultimate goal is to provide a standardized desktop computing environment, given this corporate culture, central-computing services must remain flexible and accommodating.

For informational purposes only, NSF’s technological infrastructure and applications are in a state of transition.

NSF’s standard set of application development tools is evolving from the Sun Application servers to Oracle WebLogic Application servers; from client-server applications to thin client (web) interfaces; and with respect to database management, NSF is moving from Sybase’s database management server to Oracle.  

NSF intends to migrate the current on-site data center to a consolidated external service provider and leverage Infrastructure as a Service.

NSF is in the process of transitioning to a commercially provided Trusted Internet Connection (TIC) in the first half of 2011

NSF is actively evaluating transition of its Email application and operations to a 3rd party hosted solution.

NSF is working to plan and design and transition it internal network to IPv6 protocol

NSF is working to ensure that they can proactively and effectively support changing desktop requirements while maintaining network security by restating and refining their desktop management approach. 

NSF is evaluating transitions to Cloud Computing and Software as a Service models for its major business and grant management applications











REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

It is the Government’s intent to seek sources with existing capability for the future opportunity to provide NSF with access to the SharePoint product via remote hosted solution.  Thoughtful and quality responses to the RFI will help NSF to become familiar with current practices in three key areas:

Hosted software solutions

Microsoft’s SharePoint 2010 as a tool for collaboration, content management, and documentation; and

NSF requirements in planning other support services ancillary to implementation and maintenance (e.g. capacity planning, quality assurance, continuity of operations and disaster recovery, problem management, and process optimization).  

Respondents to this RFI should provide capability statements based on their experience as qualified prospective vendors capable of providing the services that support the objectives identified in this RFI.

Secondly, the Government seeks to determine the capability of large and small businesses alike for this RFI Interested parties shall describe their technical capabilities and how experience is best demonstrated, and how that experience aligns to federal markets and to NSF as an organization.

All interested Contractors are requested to provide written responses to the applicable Sections below.  At a minimum, respondents should address Sections 1, 2, and 3.  NSF anticipates that one-on-one meetings will follow the receipt of responses to this RFI.  NSF may consider the completeness of the responses when selecting companies to participate in the one-on-one meetings.



RESPONDENT INSTRUCTIONS

Section 1 – Respondents are permitted an Executive and General Summary (no more than 3 pages) explaining history and background of the firm and relevance to the work.  This section should also include a general discussion of the value and implementation of service levels, types of best practices and their use, different pricing methods, and unique issues in doing business within the federal government market.  It is most helpful to NSF if responses show:

How respondents’ history and background are aligned to the objectives outlined in the summary above;

How NSF may prepare itself to better work with a Contractor (or Contractors) in areas like IT governance, change control, transition, and planning;

How best practices in IT security and knowledge of security threats and trends are being applied – especially where Software as a Service or Infrastructure as a Service is used;

Unique requirements and problems of Federal Government markets; and

Appropriate use of financial measures and related reporting.



Note: please do not include electronic files containing company information, hardcopy information, brochures or other company literature.  However, respondents may include a link to their company’s website.

Section 2 – Respondents should provide a statement of capabilities and experience (no more than 3 pages).  This information will only be used in helping NSF determine the extent to which these kinds of requirements may or may not be reflected in a solicitation.  Interested parties shall describe their technical capabilities and how experience is best demonstrated (e.g. as a prime or as a sub-contractor) within areas of system development, integration, deployment, accreditation, product evaluations, and technical support of large scale software development and support of functional enhancements.  In addition, please describe challenges experienced with similar contracts and how NSF may work with Small Businesses to mitigate risk and reduce burdens.

Respondents to this section shall also include the following information:

Business size classification under North American Industry Classification System Code (NAICS) 518210

DUNS number

CAGE Code



Section 3 – NSF desires a more detailed response to the specific questions below to assist with information gathering.  Please limit responses to no more than an average of a 1/2 page for each general question that follows. 

GENERAL QUESTIONS

The period of performance is yet to be determined.  What period of performance is optimal? Why?  What is the recommended minimum period of performance? How do respondents deal with governmental limitation of funds (e.g., annual appropriations)?



What contract type(s) respondents are recommended? Why?

What information is required from NSF in terms of accurately sizing/estimating the work load (e.g. number of transactions, number of users, architecture, and other artifacts)?

How can NSF prepare and anticipate transition requirements (e.g., reduction of risk; implementation of processes, documentation, and training)?  How has due diligence and transition planning been conducted in similar situations within the Federal Government?

What experience and best practices can be most useful to NSF in terms of its architecture and the related information solutions specific to related security mandates. For example:

Federally mandated levels of security and privacy

Physical and logical access to NSF information

Applicability and compliance with NIST 800-53A



What are the various price models / metrics available to NSF for the services described in Section 4 below?  For example, baseline service charges, incremental charges (i.e., additional resource usage and reductions in resources), or major changes to services.



What contract vehicles (GWAC, GSA Schedule, etc.) does the respondent hold that could be utilized for this requirement?  What are the benefits and challenges of each?  





Section 4 – NSF anticipates specific activities that would form the basis of a Statement of Work.  To assist NSF with market research, a set of draft activities is provided in the sections below.  NSF requests respondents compare NSF’s draft requirements to those of an Offeror’s commercial and governmental off-the-shelf solutions.  That is, are the requirements below addressed in the hosting Provider’s standard agreement?  If so, please state that such requirements are standard.  If not, which requirements require customization and what would the timeframes be? 

Please limit responses to no more than an average of 2 pages for each Section that follows on the next pages.

NSF SCOPE AND REQUIREMENTS

Section 4.1 - General Information

NSF currently has two separate SharePoint 2007 farms:  an Internal farm and an External farm. The Internal farm is used as an intranet and is accessible to NSF staff and contractors on NSF’s internal network. The External farm is used for collaboration between NSF staff and contractors and members of the research community.  NSF seeks a SharePoint 2010 hosting solution for both the Internal and External environments, but seeks to keep the two environments separate. NSF requires Acceptance and Production environments for the Internal farm and External farm as part of the hosted solution, along with separate development and test environments.

Environments: 

Production: Internal and External

Acceptance: Internal and External

Development and Test

NSF anticipates Microsoft SharePoint 2010 and customization would be procured through a Software as a Service (SaaS) arrangement, Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) arrangement, or a hybrid IaaS/services offering.  Financial and management responsibility of network connectivity (up to NSF points of presence), operating systems, and SharePoint applications should be provided by the hosting service.

Accessibility to development and test environments at the hosting facility along with the Acceptance and Production environments.  How is testing coordinated and where is the demarcation between standard services and optional services?

How are service management responsibilities defined and what limits are placed on a customer’s involvement or input with design and engineering, initial configuration, and implementation?

NSF anticipates both an Internal and External environment for SharePoint users (see “a” and “b” below).  What is the best way to establish the production environments? How are concurrent users and growth rate factored into the solution and pricing?

Intranet

Users:  2000-2500

Concurrent users:  10% (~200-250)

Peak hits per hour:  2000

Current storage:  300GB

Growth rate:  40% per year

Extranet

Users:  500-1000

Concurrent users:  10% (~50-100)

Current storage:  17 GB

Growth rate:  40% per year

Development Background – NSF currently supports over 1,000 total sites, with an average of 10 new site requests per month.  The level of complexity and customization of sites varies from standard out of the box sites, to custom configuration and development as outlined in more detail below:

Regular Site Development – Consists of standard team site templates that are slightly configured to meet the need of the customer.

Application Development – Highly customized sites that meet the unique needs of the customer requirements, typically to automate or streamline a business process; Visual Studio, SP Designer and InfoPath Forms Services are utilized.

Section 4.2 - Facility and Platform Related

When obtaining cloud services for their SharePoint 2010 farms, NSF will be giving the responsibility of the facilities and platform to the vendor. NSF needs to know where the management boundaries are, and if there are any limitations.

NSF desires outsourced responsibility for the network, operating system, and SharePoint application architecture.  In doing so, what limits are there on the NSF Domain Name and naming convention?

Are there additional costs to provide internet-facing DNS services?

Are there limits on a customer’s ability to perform agile deployments to the acceptance or production environments?  For example, restrictions on the number per day or required advance notice?

What level of system access and permissions are granted to NSF on the production and acceptance systems?  What level of access is granted to the server and application?

What precautions are designed into your facility’s power planning, failover, fire/water systems and disaster planning and recovery?  What requirements are placed on NSF?

What geographic considerations are given to a Service Provider’s geographic location and placement of data centers?  What environmental considerations are given to use of “green” technologies and solutions?

What virtualization technology does the platform use? Is the virtualization vendor approved through the Microsoft Windows Server Virtualization Validation Program?

Section 4.3 - Software

The software that this environment will be supporting is SharePoint Server 2010 Enterprise. Ideally, NSF would like all of the maintenance and architecture activities to be handled by the hosting company.

SharePoint Server 2010 (SPS 2010) Enterprise is the required version.  How often are versions updated and how are technologies updates communicated and coordinated?  What requirements are placed on customers to accept updates?

Describe the demarcation in responsibility for use of software, license agreements, and client access licenses (CALs).  What is provided with the service and what software is the responsibility of National Science Foundation?

What provisions are made for customers already holding enterprise license agreements?

In the event of a dispute between a Hosting Service Provider and Microsoft, how is NSF protected?  Is there a specific level of support from Microsoft for their software on the infrastructure of the data center?

What is the typical timeframe and activities when migrating from SharePoint 2007 to SharePoint 2010?

What support tools are provided and what restrictions are placed on NSF’s use?



Section 4.4 - Customization Requirements

SharePoint is a frequently used application at NSF, and NSF requires the ability to take advantage of all functionality provided by the application. The vendor will be responsible for maintaining SharePoint and facilitating the deployment of customizations designed by NSF. Coordination and communication will be of utmost importance.

Describe the ability for NSF to access the servers and customize in the Acceptance and Production (both Internal and External) environments:

SharePoint Designer

NSF requires full access to SharePoint Designer functionality in each site collection

NSF requires the ability to deploy SharePoint Designer Custom Workflow activities (WSP)

NSF requires the ability to control SharePoint Designer access for non-site collection administrators

Support InfoPath Forms/web forms

NSF requires the ability to publish InfoPath forms through Central Administration

Support “look and feel” changes

NSF requires the ability to modify Global master pages

NSF requires the ability to deploy custom cascading style sheets

NSF requires the ability to manage themes

NSF requires the ability to deploy Sandboxed solutions

NSF requires the ability to deploy server-side customizations

NSF requires the ability to deploy Features and custom layout pages (WSP)

NSF requires the ability to install custom Web Parts 

Describe the process for deploying customizations, including code reviews before customizations are deployed to the managed environment.

Ability and process to deploy 3rd party tools

Ability to install and support required 3rd party Web Parts (Bamboo Alert+, SharePoint Boost, etc.)

Ability to integrate with Microsoft Windows Rights Management System (RMS)

Ability to install and use a backup tool, such as DocAve

Ability to connect to externally hosted applications, email systems, databases, and other data sources that may need to be integrated in to the SharePoint portal.  What restrictions are placed on NSF’s integration of new Software (for functionality) from external providers via web services?

Are there restrictions on NSF’s rights in technical data, ownership of all custom code, scripts, applications, and data; as well as maintaining the right to request full copies of these items at any time?

Section 4.5 - Security and Authorizations

It is important for NSF to maintain a secure application while at the same time ensuring ease of use for its users. Currently, users are not prompted to log in when accessing SharePoint via the intranet and this “integrated authentication” is desired in the new environment.  In addition, the Internal farm may also need to be accessible over the public internet, outside of the LAN, using two factor authentication. The second factor of authentication should be NSF’s RSA SecurID. For the External farm, internal users will log in using their NSF credentials and external accounts will be maintained in a separate user directory.  Only one factor of authentication is required for the External farm. 

Describe the authentication options used with an Intranet environment and the logistics implementation plan for:

Integration with the NSF’s Active Directory for user accounts.

Replication of Active Directory or synchronized/federated accounts.

Dedicated, non-internet accessible connection to the intranet farm only accessible via the customer’s internal network.

Seamless log in on the intranet domain-joined computers (Windows Integrated authentication).

Alternate access point via the Internet with two-factor authentication (RSA SecurID hardware token) via RSA SecurID server synchronization with the customer’s token server.

Describe the authentication options for the Extranet environment:

Replication or federation with NSF’s Active Directory for internal user accounts used on the extranet environment.

Separate but connected directory for external user accounts.

Management of account passwords for external user accounts.

Describe the hosting Provider’s structure as it relates to federal requirements and NIST standards on System Certification and Accreditation.  

System certification is the comprehensive evaluation of the management, operational, and technical security controls implemented for an information system to ensure compliance with information security requirements.

System Accreditation follows System Certification and is the official management decision to authorize operation of an information system.



Section 4.6 - Policies

In this hosted environment, NSF requires that the vendor manage the underlying architecture of the application. It is important to identify any constraints or restrictions NSF may encounter in moving their application to this environment. As a government agency, NSF also has strict security requirements that must be met. FISMA Moderate compliance is required.

Identify any constraints or restrictions imposed by hosting Provider’s management policies on the network, server architecture, operating systems, and SharePoint application.

Identify any reliance on NSF to manage the network, server architecture, operating systems, and SharePoint application.

What policies are used to assure service and system integrity (e.g. methods for secure remote access, limits or qualifications imposed on customer’s designated personnel’s ability to perform duties on the hosted infrastructure), or clientless (web-based) access?

Identify any limitations on NSF from physical security policies at the Provider facilities.

Describe Provider policies on data storage and access by personnel to NSF data.  Is any data stored outside the Continental United States?  Do non-U.S. Citizens have access to NSF data or systems interfacing with NSF Systems?

Describe how systems, applications, and data are segregated from other systems/applications in a SaaS, IaaS, or hybrid IaaS/services environment.

Describe the ability to meet all Government security requirements (e.g. FISMA, Trusted Internet Connection, etc.), provide necessary documentation to NSF on Security, and support NSF in meeting security requirements. FISMA Moderate compliance is required. For example:

Firewall/Virtual Private Network, Intrusion Detection System (IDS)/Intrusion Prevention System (IPS), vulnerability assessments plans, antivirus management, etc.

Certifications and/or programs obtained, utilized, or in progress by the hosting Provider.

Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM)

Security Test and Evaluation Plan

Risk Assessment and Mitigation

Compliance and scheduling server and network updates / security patches 



Section 4.7 - Support and Administration

NSF is a customer-focused organization and provides a high level of support to all NSF staff and members of the research community using their applications. NSF seeks to maintain the same level of customer-focused support in a hosted application. NSF also has well defined processes for incident reporting and seeks a hosting provider that will integrate with their operational procedures. 

NSF will require system availability and support 24 x 7 x 365 days a year with high availability (e.g. 99.95% system availability by users).  Please describe your target availability and ability to troubleshoot or respond to emergencies.  How is service availability assured?  For example, how often is data backed up and for how long are backups retained?  What level of help desk support is available? 

Describe the Service Level Agreement (SLA).  What service levels are available?  What are the typical, Industry metrics used to monitor and manage Software as a Service or Infrastructure as a Service, and how are competing priorities managed?

 [Please acknowledge whether you have published Service Level Objectives and provide agreements with your RFI response].

Describe the bandwidth/data capacity and how “peak” loading is determined and managed for.

Describe other performance requirements that can be met and if page load times can be monitored and enforced.

How is customer satisfaction monitored, and what is the escalation process for when problems occur?

Describe the process for incident reporting and ticket management.

Describe how code, system, and environment changes made by the host or NSF are monitored and tracked.



Describe your reporting, the key indicators used, and relationship management. 

All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this Contract must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. The 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. All deliverables will be Section 508 compliant.



Any questions or concerns regarding any aspect of this RFI should be forwarded to the Contracting Officer, Gregory N. Smith, via e-mail at gnsmith@nsf.gov no later than February 16, 2011, so that they can be addressed prior to submission of your RFI package.







 

 



Please include the following information specific to your company within your response:

Company Name:

Address:

Annual Revenues:

Number of Washington, D.C. Metro Area-based offices and personnel:

Response Primary Contact (Name, Title, Phone, Email):

Response Secondary Contact (Name, Title, Phone, Email):



Responses should be submitted no later than 3:30p.m. (Eastern Time) on March 2, 2011.  All responses should be limited to twenty-three (23) pages.  Document should be in a Microsoft Word 2007 compatible format with one-inch margins, using single-spaced, Arial font, and size 10.