<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FDTFH6111R00026upload.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FDTFH6111R00026upload.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5.

RATING

PAGE

OF PAGES


DATE ISSUED 6.

1 | 54 REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

DTFH61-11-R-00026
7. ISSUED BY CODE

SEALED BID (IFB) NEGOTIATED (RFP)
8.

41-30-11013

ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE E65-101 Washington, DC 20590
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder"

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and 3 copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if hand carried, in the depository located in 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, 6th Floor, Room E65-101 until 3:00 p.m. local time by November 11,2011. THIS REQUIREMENT IS A FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION REQUIREMENT. CAUTION  LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION REQUIREMENT A. NAME B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) C. E-MAIL ADDRESS 10. FOR

INFORMATION CALL:
() SEC.



Gina Jackson Robin K. Hobbs

AREA CODE

NUMBER

EXT.

202

366-4087 366-4004
() SEC.

Gina.Jackson@dot.gov Robin.Hobbs@dot.gov

11.
DESCRIPTION

TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE(S) DESCRIPTION PAGE(S)

       

A B C D E F G H

PART I - THE SCHEDULE SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2 2 12 12 13 16 21



I PART J     K L M

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES CONTRACT CLAUSES 25 III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 34 PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS 35 AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS 40 EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD 51

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within _____ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT 10 CALENDAR DAYS 20 CALENDAR DAYS 30 CALENDAR DAYS CALENDAR DAYS
(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)



%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

14.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS
(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated):

15A.

NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR TELEPHONE NUMBER
NUMBER

CODE

FACILITY

16.

NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

15B.

AREA CODE

EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17.

SIGNATURE

18.

OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) ( ) 24. ) 41 U.S.C. 253(c)(

23.

SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise
specified)

ITEM


CODE

ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)CODE

25.

PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

26.

NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28.

AWARD DATE

(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT -- Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION
Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33

(Rev. 9-97)

Prescribed by GSA ­ FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 2 of 54

PART 1
SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS
B.1 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES

The Contractor shall develop and maintain an effective web interface program for the Long Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) Information Management System (IMS) through the project entitled, "LTPP Web Interface Program". The Government contemplates a hybrid cost plus fixed fee (CPFF)/indefinite-delivery-indefinitequantity (IDIQ) contract utilizing cost reimbursable and/or fixed-price task orders. The Contractor shall provide and furnish the necessary and qualified personnel, facilities, equipment, materials, and supplies not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the requirements set forth herein. The total estimated cost for CLIN 0001 is $(to be filled in at award); which consist of an estimated cost of $(to be filled in at award) and a fixed fee of $(to be filled in at award). The total potential cost for CLIN 0102, 0202 and 0302 is $(to be filled in at award); which consists of a total potential cost of $(to be filled in at award) and a total potential fixed fee of $ to be filled in at award. The minimum guarantee is $(to be filled in at award) for CLINs 0102-0302. CLIN CLIN CLIN CLIN 0001 Base Year­ (24 months) (Task A) ­ CPFF 0102 Option Year 1 (12 months) Task B - IDIQ 0202 Option Year 2 (12 months) (Task C) - IDIQ 0302 Option Year 3 (12 months) (Task D) - IDIQ

(End of Section B)

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT
C.1 BACKGROUND

The Long-Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) study began in 1987 under the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP). LTPP field data collection began in 1989. Since 1992, FHWA has maintained and expanded upon the original SHRP goals through a staff effort in the Office of Infrastructure R&D, LTPP Team, with active input from the State departments of transportation and with the cooperation of the Canadian provincial transportation agencies. The mission of the LTPP program was to promote increased pavement life through:

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 3 of 54

ˇ

ˇ ˇ

Collecting and storing performance data from a large number of in-service highways in the United States and Canada, over an extended period, to support analysis and product development. Analyzing these data to describe how pavements perform and to explain why they perform as they do. Translating these insights into knowledge and usable engineering products related to pavement design, construction, rehabilitation, maintenance, preservation, and management.

LTPP consists of 2500+ pavement test sections and the information management system that stores the information gathered through the test sections, and supporting technical documentation that seek to determine how and why pavements perform as they do. From this knowledge, new pavement design, management, and maintenance systems can be developed that will extend pavement life and serve a new generation of highway administrators and users. The breadth and length of the program--what is being studied, over what period of time, and why--are probably best understood in terms of the expectations of the highway community for LTPP. These expectations have guided LTPP, and over time, evolution of these expectations has led to some updates of LTPP's mission. LTPP IMS Over the past 20 some years, the LTPP program has accumulated a huge amount of data, as well as a mass of documentation and related tools. These data, documentation, and related tools comprise the comprehensive LTPP Information Management System (IMS). Definition of the term LTPP IMS has changed over the years. While the LTPP program is best known for development of its premiere pavement performance database, it has also created an information warehouse that extends well beyond the collected data. In addition to the data contained in the formal relational databases, the LTPP IMS knowledge base includes findings from early analysis of LTPP data; raw data sources used to populate the electronic databases; extensive documentation for all aspects of experiment design, data acquisition, quality control and data dissemination format; and LTPP related products. The LTPP IMS is the premier product of the LTPP program. It is the world's largest long-term pavement performance database. Researchers and engineers in the federal government, state highway departments, industry associations, consulting firms, international community and universities are and will use the LTPP database in research, development, and design projects for decades to come. The LTPP data will continue to be analyzed for as long as it is available to discover cause-and-effect relationships and to explain why some pavements decline rapidly in serviceability, smoothness, and structural integrity while others do not. These relationships and explanations will enable pavement engineers to design pavements rationally, by using local or site-specific data for calibration of design parameters in accordance with the guidelines in the new mechanistic-empirical design guide. Although it is not yet complete, it already contains more research-quality data than have ever been collected anywhere. This data contains data that have been collected systematically and

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 4 of 54

rigorously concerning the type, extent, and rate of deterioration of a sample of the nation's highway pavements as a result of time, traffic, weather, and other influences. In this solicitation, the LTPP IMS is defined as the mechanisms used to store, preserve, and disseminate the electronic data, resources, information, research findings, and electronic tools and products from the LTPP program. The LTPP IMS is comprised of two major components: the Pavement Performance Database (PPDB) and the Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS). LTPP PPDB ­ LTPP PPDB is the premier pavement performance database produced by the LTPP program. It contains comprehensive data aiming at finding out how and why pavements perform the way they do. The LTPP PPDB was developed and operated as an OracleŽ based relational database, and the latest production database is implemented in Oracle 10i system housed on a Microsoft Windows server. In addition to a production database, the system development environment is stored on the server. Two clones of the production database, along with data loader programs, data quality checks programs, and data entry forms comprise the development environment. The LTPP program issues annual standard data releases (SDRs) of the LTPP PPDB using MicrosoftŽ Access Database formats for easy and convenient dissemination and use. The PPDB SDR enables the users to harness the power of relational databases to manipulate large amounts of data at a reasonable cost and with ease-of-use. The LTPP PPDB is the largest and most comprehensive pavement performance research database ever created. The current version of the PPDB includes over 300 million records of data comprising 12,000+ individual data elements, stored in more than 500 tables. By virtue of its size and the evolutionary nature of its development, the database can be characterized as a complex data warehouse. Plans to simplify the database structure, add more commonly used computed parameters, improve transparency, and create a ready-for-analysis data structure have been canceled due to budget constraints. Therefore, the LTPP PPDB is somewhat cumbersome to navigate. Providing technical support to warehouse users (i.e., data analysts) has been, and will continue to be, an important activity. LTPP AIMS ­ LTPP AIMS is a central electronic archive of the data (not contained in the LTPP PPDB), information, documents, research reports or briefs, and tools that were either collected or developed by the LTPP program, as well as those derived using LTPP data. LTPP AIMS houses ancillary data and information in the form of pictures, video, raw data in its native collection format, images of paper data collection forms, reports, documents, past investigations of LTPP data, etc. The ancillary data and information contained in LTPP AIMS are even more voluminous than the pavement performance database: the traffic monitoring raw data contains more than 1.5 billion raw traffic classification and weight measurement records; the central electronic ancillary information consisting of data and images not in the pavement performance or traffic databases currently numbers 10,000 files; and over 12,000 35-mm black and white, high-quality photographs of LTPP test sections are stored in the Materials Reference Library.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 5 of 54

In addition, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) has created a central LTPP library at the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center (TFHRC) to store the more than 600 physical documents associated with the program, many of which have yet to be converted into a searchable electronic format. Plans to create an indexed electronic library containing all of this information were canceled due to program budget cuts. The LTPP IMS is housed at the FHWA Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center, in McLean, VA. An LTPP Data Processing Work Station containing the LTPP PPDB and its data entry forms, as well as portions of the LTPP AIMS, is housed and operated by the LTPP Technical Support Services Contractor in Oakridge Tennessee. There is a great need to improve public access and understanding of LTPP data, as well as to keep up with the current IT technology. The LTPP program management made a decision to provide access to the LTPP IMS on-demand through a web centric interface and provide education and tools to maximize user understanding of the information. A subset of the LTPP products is available at www.ltpp-products.com. The most important and comprehensive product related to the LTPP IMS is the "DataPave Online" (http://www.ltppproducts.com). DataPave Online enables the users to explore and download LTPP data from the web. The DataPave Online is a good example as to how to make the LTPP IMS available to the users. It allows the users to view, explore, and extract LTPP data and some information. It also contains a GIS based viewing interface, and summary data, graphs, and query wizards to help users find data and information they are interested in. Selected List of Key References of the LTPP IMS and IMS Operations LTPP Standard Data Release (SDR) DVDs The LTPP Program traditionally provides its data and key information through SDRs. The latest version, SDR25, consists of three DVDs: two data DVDs and one information DVD. The data DVDs contain the data tables from the LTPP PPDB, in MS Access format. To facilitate access and use of the LTPP SDR, a Reference Library DVD accompanies the SDR providing electronic versions of many LTPP publications and utility software useful to the LTPP data users. The SDR25 is available through the LTPP Customer Support Center: ltppinfo@dot.gov. The following two documents on the SDR25 DVD provide a starting point for understanding the LTPP data: ˇ "LTPP_Data_User_Guide.pdf" - This document provides a release specific update to the previous pavement performance database user guide that strives to provide a comprehensive overview of the LTPP program, experiments, database structure, information on how to obtain LTPP data, and tutorials on the use of structured query language (SQL) to extract data. "LTPP_Traffic_Data_User_Guide.pdf" is included in the "Data_User_Documents" folder in Volume 5 of the SDR25 to facilitate access and use of the LTPP Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) tables.

ˇ

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 6 of 54

LTPP IMS Operations Manual Another key reference regarding the LTPP IMS is the LTPP IMS Operations Manual. It was developed for internal LTPP program usage and provides specific information about maintaining and upgrading the LTPP database servers, operating systems and software, performing database administration (DBA) functions, tracking change requests, producing software releases, and producing the annual Standard Data Release. It also describes the IMS entry application, including running quality control programs, data loaders and entering data into the PPDB with data entry forms. The latest version of the LTPP IMS Operations Manual is provided as an attachment to this solicitation (SECTION J). Note: Due to historical reasons, the definitions of the LTPP IMS and its components may not be consistent with the definitions in this RFP. Most notably is the LTPP Traffic Analysis software and its input/output database. The LTPP program is modifying the PPDB as well as this manual so that the PPDB contains all the relevant tables including the traffic tables produced by the LTAS software. The LTPP Traffic Analysis software will eventually reside in the LTPP AIMS, as a data processing tool. C.2 OBJECTIVE

The primary objective of this effort is to develop, enhance, maintain, and support an Effective Web Interface Program of the LTPP IMS [LTPP WIP]. This program will provide access to the LTPP IMS on-demand through a web interface and provide tools to maximize user understanding and utilization of the information. C.3 DELINEATION OF CONTRACTOR TASKS

BASE PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (CLIN 001) TASK A ­ LTPP WEB INTERFACE PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENTS Task A.1 Framework of LTPP Web Interface Program

The main goal of Task A.1 is to develop a framework of the LTPP Web Interface Program Version 1.0. As a minimum, the following activities shall be conducted: ˇ Background review--LTPP IMS related literature and products (e.g. LTPP Product online) as listed in this solicitation. Software techniques and tools, in particular web development software, suitable for the LTPP Web Interface Program shall be evaluated and summarized. Survey of the representative LTPP data users--this can be done in person, by phone, and/or via questionnaires. At a minimum, this survey shall include users from academia, State DOTs, and other users in the pavement community.

ˇ

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 7 of 54

NOTE: The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA): Any activities involving information collection (i.e., paper or web-based surveys, questionnaires, etc) from 10 or more non-Federal entities, including States, are subject to PRA requirements and may require the USDOT to coordinate an OMB Information Collection Clearance, a process that generally takes eight months. The Contractor shall coordinate with the COTR on this process. ˇ Interaction with the TRB LTPP committees, LTPP Technical Support Service Contractor, and other LTPP contractors with regard to the current LTPP IMS status, contents, and operation details. At least one face-to-face meeting and, multiple teleconference calls shall be conducted. Task A.1 Report. Draft Task A.1 report shall be submitted to the FHWA within six months from contract effective date. At a minimum, this report shall include: o Approach and findings from: background review, survey of the LTPP users, and communication with the LTPP Technical Support Service Contractor team. o Detailed LTPP Web Interface Version 1.0 Design o Task A.2 work plan to develop LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0. The following is a preliminary list of the anticipated contents for the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 Design: ˇ Selection and justification of the software tools and techniques for development of the LTPP Web Interface Program. This shall include proposed website hosting mechanism for the LTPP Web Interface Program. Software develop approaches to connecting, synchronizing, accessing, and downloading LTPP PPDB and AIMS data and documents in an effective manner. The LTPP PPDB resides on an Oracle 10.g platform, which requires the LTPP IMS Web Interface Program to interact with the Oracle database. Whereas LTPP AIMS contains various raw data files, images, videos, documents, and software tools in different formats, cutting-edge data mining techniques are essential to obtain useful information and data quickly for the users. Engineering functionalities to enable users to view, explore and learn about the LTPP IMS, as well as to extract the analysis data sets specific to their needs. Mock Graphical User Interface (GUI) screens along with descriptions are expected to illustrate the intended capabilities. Example WIP functionalities anticipated: o Interface for the users to view (e.g. through GIS type map) and explore the LTPP section information and database contents. o Data views/visualization tools assisting users to create specialized data sets they need. o Mechanism to produce LTPP Standard Data Releases (SDRs) through the web interface, in a robust and effective way. o Data manipulation tools (widgets) to perform often used extractions, data views, or

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 8 of 54

o o o

o o o o o

data manipulation Web-based contextual search and data extraction methodologies for LTPP AIMS. Mechanism to track LTPP Web Interface Program usage, e.g. by user registration and log-in time tracking. Interface for customer survey on the LTPP Web Interface Program, and the LTPP customer support. For example, similar to what is provided on this webpage: http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/research/tfhrc/programs/infrastructure/pavements/ltpp/surve y2.cfm. Effective interface for user feedback, bugs reporting, discussion forum, and support. Training tutorials or tools on LTPP Web Interface Program Training tutorials or tools on LTPP PPDB and AIMS contents Topical "ready to use" data set extractions (queries) Computed (interpreted) engineering parameters

The Task A.2 Work Plan to develop LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 shall be submitted for FHWA review and approval. It should include the following elements, as a minimum: ˇ ˇ ˇ Work plan to develop the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0, in accordance with the design document Contractor's QC/QA and testing plan of the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 Proposed deliverables and reporting, including detailed milestones and schedule for execution

Note: The LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 shall at least encompass the functionalities available at the LTPP DataPave Online (http://www.ltpp-products.com/). In addition, other LTPP software products such as Diva, ESALCalc, Performance Forecaster, LTPP E*, and others as identified by the COTR, shall be incorporated into the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0.

Aside from the regular teleconference calls, two or more meetings shall be scheduled with the FHWA COTR: the initial kick-off meeting and Task A.1 reporting meeting within five months from contract start date. At least one of the meetings will be face-to-face in McLean Virginia or another location specified by the COTR. Task A.2 Developing LTPP Web Interface Program Version 1.0

Note: Task A.2 shall not start until notice to proceed (NTP) is received from the COTR. The offeror shall execute the approved Task A.2 Work Plan developed under Task A.1. The following outlines the key stages, milestones, and delivery packages FHWA anticipates. Task A.2.1 Alpha versions of the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 Alpha versions of the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 shall be developed in accordance with the Design Document contained in the revised and approved Task A.1 report. Two Alpha versions shall be submitted to the FHWA for external testing.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 9 of 54

Alpha Version #1 shall be fully functional and made available to the FHWA and its designated alpha testers within 6 months from Task A.2 NTP date. A comprehensive user's guide, plus Alpha #1 testing guide and check list, shall accompany the Alpha version #1. FHWA will provide comments from Alpha #1 testing within 1.5 months from receipt. Alpha Version #2 shall be produced within 3 months from receiving the FHWA comments on the Alpha Version #1, and made available to the FHWA. Again, a revised comprehensive user's guide, plus Alpha #2 testing guide and check list, shall accompany the Alpha version #2. The Alpha Version #2 shall serve as the pre-Beta version, ready to be released to the public on the approved website as determined under Task A.1. FHWA will provide comments from Alpha #2 testing within 1.5 months from receipt. Task A.2.2 Beta version of the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 Beta version of the LTPP Web Interface Program 1.0 shall be produced within 1 month from receiving the FHWA comments on the Alpha version #2. Upon receiving FHWA approval, the Beta version shall be released to the public, live on the web, along with the User's Guide and Beta Testing Guide and Checklist, as well as a means for the users to provide feedback. The live Beta version shall be properly maintained and supported. The contractor shall submit to the FHWA User Comments and Feedback Summary Reports monthly to document the user feedbacks, plus resolutions, as appropriate. Task A.2.3 LTPP Web Interface Program Version 1.0 Task A.2.3 LTPP Web Interface Program Version 1.0 shall be formally released to the public before the end of Task A.2. The actual date and venue of the public release shall be determined with consultation and approval from the FHWA. The contractor shall maintain and support the LTPP Web Interface Program and submit to the FHWA User Feedback Summary Reports monthly to document the user feedbacks and resolutions, as appropriate. TASK B ­ Coordination and Outreach The Contractor shall provide assistance to the FHWA in planning, coordination and, outreach related to the LTPP Web Interface Program. Activities shall include: B.1 Coordination and Outreach

The Contractor's Project Manager (PM) shall communicate regularly with the COTR. From time to time, the PM and Contractor's other key personnel (e.g. PI, Co-PI) will be required to participate in teleconference calls, face-to-face meetings with the FHWA LTPP Team, LTPP

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 10 of 54

TRB committees, and/or speak at technical conferences, on as needed basis. The purpose of these meetings or presentations is to report the project status, explain work approach, or demonstrate the LTPP Web Interface Program being developed. For proposal planning purposes, plan to attend two face-to-face meetings in addition to those planned under Tasks A.1 and A.2. B.2 Technical Reporting

In addition to the deliverables identified under Task A.1 and Task A.2, the following are required:
a. Final Report to:

 ˇ ˇ

Summarize the work completed under this Task A.1 and A.2. Recommend future enhancements to the LTPP Web Interface Program V1.0 Develop a work plan for developing LTPP Web Interface Program V2.0, including a preliminary design document of the V2.0 and an execution plan.

b.

Presentation and training slides, discussion materials or minutes for meetings with other LTPP contractors, TRB ETG committees, or any workshops and training sessions, as directed by the COTR. Technical memoranda or letter-reports on status or resolution of action items from meetings with FHWA and/or its designated contractors, as directed by the COTR. Tech Brief or brochures for distribution to the public regarding the LTPP Web Interface Program.

c.

d.

Note: COTR will provide guidance on the preparation of Tech Briefs or brochures. e. Preparation of display and/or promotional materials (for example, brochures, PowerPoint slides, video clips, and tech briefs) for use at conferences and workshops.

OPTION PERIODS (YEARS 3, 4, and 5) If Option periods are exercised, the Contractor may be required to conduct the following work on a task order basis.

OPTION TASK AREAS (TASKS C, D, & E) The general task areas from which the Government will issue task orders under this contract are: TASK C ­ LTPP Web Interface Program Further Development and Enhancements The Contractor shall further develop and enhance various versions of the LTPP Web Interface Program. This IMS web-interface program, when fully developed, shall provide the following

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 11 of 54

functions to the LTPP data and information users: ˇ Provide timely web access to the LTPP PPDB. This shall allow the users to extract LTPP data in various common forms, such as the Microsoft ACCESS databases, Excel spreadsheets, ASCII flat files. Provide timely web access to the LTPP AIMS that includes raw data files, images, data collection and other resource documents, videos, research reports, software tools, and other products. Provide effective web interface that allows the user to query and download needed data and information they need. Provide effective web graphical interface that allows the users to explore and view the data and information contained in the LTPP IMS. Provide web-enabled LTPP software products. Implement effective web based user training, at various levels.

ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Activities may include: 1. Designing, developing, and testing of various versions of the LTPP Web Interface Program. 2. Preparation of clear and well-written documentation of LTPP Web Interface Program. 3. Planning and implementing future program enhancements based on the state of the technology, user needs, and directions of the FHWA. TASK D ­ Operate, Maintain, and Support the LTPP Web Interface Program The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and support the LTPP Web Interface Program. Activities may include: 1. Operating and maintaining the live web interface by keeping the LTPP Web Interface Program operational land free of bugs to the extent possible and in accordance with Government Information Technology Security requirements. 2. Reporting on the LTPP Web Interface Program access status, usage statistics, and other issues periodically. 3. Providing user support and feedback.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 12 of 54

TASK E ­ Planning, Coordination, Outreach, and Reporting The Contractor shall provide assistance to the FHWA in planning, coordination, and outreach related to the LTPP Web Interface Program. Activities may include: 1. Participating in planning future LTPP Web Interface Program versions. 2. Participating in meetings conducted for the purposes of coordination, planning, and outreach of the LTPP program as related to the LTTP Web Interface Program. 3. Preparation and delivery of presentations to highway agency and industry audiences at meetings, conferences and/or workshops pertinent to the LTPP Web Interface Program as directed by the COTR. 4. Preparation of display and/or promotional materials (for example, brochures, PowerPoint slides, video clips, and tech briefs) for use at conferences and workshops. 5. Develop technical reports and Tech Briefs as directed by the COTR. (End of Section C)

SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING
D.1 PACKAGING

Preservation, packing, and packaging of items for shipment shall be in accordance with commercial practice and adequate for acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation at the most economical rates. D.2 SHIPMENT AND MARKING

Shipment of deliverable items shall be delivered F.O.B. Destination, under transmittal letter, as follows: Ship to: Federal Highway Administration Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center 6300 Georgetown Pike McLean, Virginia 22101 (Attention: to be filled in at award) The Contractor shall mark each shipment with the company name, this contract number, the item identification, quantity of items, and notice of partial or final delivery. (End of Section D)

SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE
E.1 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 13 of 54

All work hereunder shall be subject to review by the Government. Acceptance of the final report shall be made in writing by the Contracting Officer (CO). 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer (CO) will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: https://www.acquisition.gov/far/ (End of Clause) 52.246-4 52.246-5 INSPECTION OF SERVICES ­ FIXED PRICE (AUG 1996) INSPECTION OF SERVICES- COST REIMBURSEMENT (AUG 1996) (End of Section E)

SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE
F.1 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance for work conducted under the base period shall not exceed 24 months. The period of performance for issuance of task orders under this IDIQ contract shall be 12 months if the first option is exercised. If all options are exercised, the total period of performance including the base periods shall not exceed 60 months. Any Task Order issued prior to the expiration date of this IDIQ, and not completed within that time, shall be completed by the contractor within the time specified under the task order. The contractor is required to abide by the terms and conditions of this IDIQ contract until the conclusion of the task order performance period. The period of performance of the individual Task Orders will be specified within the Task Order document. F.2 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

Generally, work performed under this contract will either be accomplished at the TurnerFairbank Highway Research Center in McLean, Virginia or at the Contractor's site. However, during the performance of the contract, there may be Task Orders issued by the COTR that specify other designated locations. F.3 PLACE OF DELIVERY

All deliverables shall be delivered F.O.B. Destination, under transmittal letter, to the COTR at

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 14 of 54

the following address: Federal Highway Administration Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center 6300 Georgetown Pike McLean, VA 22101 Attention: to be filled in at award Email address: to be filled in at award

Quarterly reports (See Section G) and other items as specified shall be delivered by email to the Contract Administrator at the following address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management HAAM 20- Room E65-103 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, DC 20590 Attention: to be filled in at award Email address: to be filled in at award

52.247-34 52.242-15 F.4

F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991) STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) -- ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)

DELIVERABLES & MILESTONES

All deliverables shall utilize a Microsoft Office Suite format unless otherwise approved by the COTR. Technical Reports shall be submitted in accordance with technical report specifications provided herein. BASE PERIOD Task A and B Key Deliverables and Milestones Key Deliverables Task A Task A.1 Task A.1 Draft Report Due Dates Notes

Within six months from contract effective date. Within one month from receiving FHWA comments. Within six months from

Revised Task A.1 Report Task A.2 LTPP WIP 1.0 Alpha #1, and

Reserve one month for FHWA review and comments. Reserve one month for FHWA review and approval. Reserve 1.5 months for

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 15 of 54

its package

Task A.2 NTP date

FHWA testing and comments. Reserve 1.5 months for FHWA testing and comments. Reserve one month for FHWA and public testing and comments.

LTPP WIP 1.0 Alpha #2, and its package LTPP WIP 1.0 Beta Live, and its package LTPP WIP 1.0 official release, Live, and its package LTPP WIP User Support Summary Report Task B Presentation slides, training and/or discussion materials for various meetings Technical memoranda or letter-reports Draft Task B Final Report Draft Tech Brief and a brochure of the LTPP WIP 1.0 Revised Task B Final Report; Revised Tech Brief and Brochure Quarterly Progress Report

Within three months from receiving FHWA comments on Alpha #1 Within one month from receiving FHWA comments on Alpha #2 After Beta release, to be determined w/ FHWA After Beta release, monthly

TBD, during the course of Task B TBD, during the course of Task B After the Beta version is released, and within 12 months from A.2 NTP date Within one month from receiving FHWA comments Quarterly, as specified in Section G

As directed by the COTR

As needed and directive by the COTR Reserve 1.5 months for FHWA testing and comments. Reserve 1.5 months for FHWA testing and comments.

Note: *A memorandum addressing FHWA comments shall accompany all revised documents or software. Unless specified otherwise, technical reports under this contract shall be prepared in accordance with the latest version of the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Communications Reference Guide (FHWA-RD-03-074), available at http://www.tfhrc.gov/qkref/qrgmain.htm. All tasks set forth in the Statement of Work shall be performed in accordance with the work schedule and deliverable schedule as delineated in each task order. Performance shall begin on the effective date of each task order. Specific requirements for technical documentation and deliverables will be established for each individual task order. (End of Section F)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 16 of 54

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA
G.1 FUNDS AVAILABILE a. b. Currently, funding in the amount of ______ is available for payment under this contract. The balance of funding under this contract (_______) will be obligated by formal modification to the contract. FAR Part 52.232-22, entitled, "LIMITATION OF FUNDS" applies to this contract. Any notification required on the part of the contract shall be made in writing to the Contracting Officer. In the event that the contract is not funded beyond the estimated cost set forth in the schedule, the Contractor shall deliver to the Contracting Officer the data collected and the material produced or in process or acquired in connection with the performance of the project provided herein together with a summary report in five copies of its progress and accomplishments to date.

c.

PAYMENTS G.2.1 PAYMENT/COST REIMBURSEMENT The Contractor may request monthly interim payments for costs incurred during the performance of the contract. A statement of costs incurred by the Contractor in the performance of tasks under this contract and claimed to constitute allowable costs shall support each interim payment request. Each interim payment request shall be submitted in accordance with the attached, "FHWA Billing Instructions for Cost Reimbursement Contracts" to be considered proper for payment. Prior approval of the Contracting Officer (CO) is required if the Contractor wishes to use a different payment request format. In accordance with clause 52.232-25, "Prompt Payment", interim payments will be made by the 30th day following receipt of proper request for payment by the designated billing office, unless audit or other review is considered necessary to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract. All interim payments hereunder will be made upon further determination by the CO that the Contractor is making adequate progress toward successful contract completion. Final invoice payment shall be made upon the CO's determination that all contract requirements have been completed. The payment due date for final invoice shall be established in accordance with the clause 52.232-25. G.2.2 PAYMENT OF FIXED PRICE TASK ORDERS (CLIN 0102-0302) For firm-fixed-price task orders, unless otherwise specified in the individual task order, the Contractor may request payment for the firm-fixed-price specified in the task order upon the

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 17 of 54

Government's acceptance of work under that task order. Partial payment may be made for partial delivery. Satisfactory completion and acceptance of the task order will be made by the COTR. (a) Upon the Government's acceptance of deliverables in accordance with Section E, the Contractor may submit a request for payment in accordance with fixed-unit prices specified in Section B. The Government will make payment to the Contractor in accordance with the Prompt Payment Clause. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include the following information: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) G.3 Name of the business concern, invoice number, and invoice date. Contract and Task Order numbers. CLIN Item number(s), description, quantity, unit price and extended totals of services actually delivered or rendered. Payment terms. Taxpayer Identification Number & DUNS Number

(b)

TRAVEL AND PER DIEM RATES

Travel and Per Diem authorized under this contract shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations currently in effect. Travel requirements under this contract shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available. If economy class transportation is not available, the request for payment voucher must be submitted with justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times, and flight numbers. All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates, unless authorized by the COTR. G.4 SUBCONTRACTS - ADVANCE NOTIFICATION AND CONSENT

Under this contract, the requirements of FAR 44.2, CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACTS, have been fulfilled for the following subcontracts: [as negotiated] Any future change or revision to the Statement of Work or other applicable aspects of this contract shall include the subcontract(s) only to the extent that performance of the subcontract(s) is directly affected by the change or revision. G.5 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR)

The Contracting Officer has designated ___________ as COTR to assist in monitoring the work under this contract. The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and serves as technical liaison with the Contractor. The COTR is not authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in the contract, to make any commitments or otherwise

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 18 of 54

obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance, or other terms or conditions. The CO is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds. The technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions of this contract. The CO shall authorize any such revision in writing. G.6 TASK ORDER PROCEDURE

The following ordering procedure shall apply to all Task Orders (TOs) issued under this contract. TOs shall be issued in accordance with FAR 52.216-18. 52.216-19, and 52.216-22 (See SECTION I). In addition: a. The Task Order Proposal Request (TOPR) will be issued electronically. The exact nature and extent of the Contractor's work under the contract will be based on written Task Order Proposal Request (TOPR) delivered by the CO. b. In response, the contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a Task Order Proposal (TOP) with the time specified for submission. c. Within 14 calendar days after receipt of an e-mailed TOPR from the Government, or within an earlier or later deadline specified in the TOPR, the Contractor shall submit to the COTR and to the CO a Task Order Proposal.

d. Each task order proposal must clearly state the contract number and TOPR number on the cover page of the submission. e. The proposal shall outline the Contractor's overall approach for completing the task order and shall, at a minimum, include: (1) (2) Signed cover letter stating that this is the proposal responding to the TOPR; Discussion of technical approach for performing the work, including detailed list of work activities, methods, timelines, milestone, and proposed deliverables for each task, in response to the TOPR; Proposed staff for performing the work items, their labor categories, estimated level of effort (hours) and roles. Resumes shall be included for staff members new to the contract. Estimated date of commencement of work, and any changes proposed to the schedule of performance;

(3)

(4)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 19 of 54

(5)

Budget summary for the entire period of performance, including: ˇ Labor categories, staff names, direct labor hours, hourly rates, for each task ˇ Indirect Rates and their applications ˇ Subcontractors/Consultants and your cost analysis in accordance with FAR 15.404-3. ˇ Other Direct Costs with a breakout by category ˇ Travel and materials cost estimates ˇ Total estimated cost for completion of the task order

e. The Contracting Officer will modify task orders in the same manner as they are issued. f. If the Contractor either at the time of receipt of a task order or at any time during work assignment performance has reason to believe that the cost or number of labor hours will exceed the estimates set forth in the task order, the Contractor shall immediately notify the COTR and Contracting Officer in writing and suggest a revised estimate for completion of the work required. After discussion with the COTR, the Contracting Officer may issue a modification revising the terms and conditions of the task order. g. The Contractor is not authorized to expend funds beyond those obligated to the task order. Additionally, the effort under each task order shall not exceed the total ceiling price specified. The Limitation of Funds or Limitation of Cost clauses apply to each cost reimbursable task order individually. Therefore, the Contractor is required to notify the CO by each individual task order in accordance with clauses 52.232-22, Limitation of Funds, and 52.232-20 Limitation of Cost, as applicable. G.7 INDIRECT COSTS

The Contractor shall be reimbursed for allowable indirect costs hereunder at the predetermined or provisional rates as granted in the contractor's rate agreement in effect. The predetermined or provisional rates effective at award are: Category Rate

This INDIRECT COST provision does not operate to waive the LIMITATION OF FUNDS Clause. The Contractor's audited final indirect costs are allowable only insofar as they do not cause the Contractor to exceed the total estimated costs for performance of the contract listed on page 2 (SECTION B) and under the PAYMENT (SECTION G).

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 20 of 54

G.8

INVOICES

Submit all invoices to one of the following invoice addresses, as appropriate: All invoices and required supporting documents shall be sent via e-mail to the following e-mail address: 9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) Include the invoice as an attached PDF document Include in the e-mail subject line the following: Invoice Number Contract/Agreement Number Name of your Company/Organization Attention: _to be filled in at award

If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB as an e-mail attachment, the Contractor must select one of the other submission options presented below: Invoices submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address: MMAC FHWA/AMZ-150 6500 S. MacArthur Blvd Oklahoma City, OK 73169 Attention: to be filled in at award Express Delivery Point of Contact: to be filled in at award Invoices may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address: Federal Highway Administration Markview Processing P.O. Box 268865 Oklahoma City OK 73126-8865 Attention: (to be filled in at award) G.9 QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORTS

The Contractor shall furnish an electronic copy of a quarterly letter-type progress report to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative and one copy to the Contract Administrator, on or before the 15th of the month following the calendar month being reported. Each report shall contain concise statements covering the activities relevant to the study, including: 1. A clear and complete account of the work performed on each task 2. An outline of the work to be accomplished during the next report period. 3. A bar chart showing the work completed by task versus the Schedule of Work of the contract. 4. A description of any problems encountered or anticipated that will affect the completion

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 21 of 54

of the contract within the time and fiscal constraints as set forth in the contract, together with recommended solutions to such problems; or a statement that no problems were encountered. 5. A tabulation of the planned, actual and cumulative person-hours expended by the personnel identified in the performance of work during the base period and for individual task orders. 6. A chart showing current and cumulative expenditures by tasks versus planned expenditures. (End of Section G)

SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
H.1 POST-AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE

Contractor Performance Evaluations a. Interim and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.1502 and TAM 1242.1502. The final performance evaluations will be prepared at the time of completion of work. b. The Contractor can elect to review the evaluation and submit additional information or a rebuttal statement. The contractor will be permitted 30 calendar days to respond. Contractor response is voluntary. If the contractor does not respond within 30 days, the Government will presume that the contractor has no comment. Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual at a level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision is final. c. Copies of the evaluations, contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions. Federal Highway Administration utilizes the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to record and maintain past performance information. CPARS hosts a suite of web-enabled applications that are used to document contractor performance information that is required by Federal Regulations. The CPARS module assesses performance on contracts for Systems, Services, Information Technology, and Operations Support. The Architect-Engineer Contract Administration Support System (ACASS) module assesses performance on ArchitectEngineer contracts. The Construction Contractor Appraisal Support System (CCASS) module assesses performance on Construction contracts. CPARS reference material can be accessed at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsfiles/cpars/refmatl.htm. The registration process requires the contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact. This individual will be authorized access to the evaluation for review

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 22 of 54

and comment. In addition, the contractor is encouraged to identify a secondary contact in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time period. After the FHWA Contract Specialist registers the contract in CPARS, the contractor will receive a system generated e-mail notifying him/her that the contract is registered. A system generated e-mail will also provide the contractor with User ID if the person does not already have a CPARS User ID. Once a performance evaluation has been prepared and is ready for comment, the contractor representative will receive a system generated e-mail notification that the performance evaluation is electronically available for review and comment. The contractor representative will receive an automated e-mail whenever an assessment is completed and can subsequently retrieve the completed assessment from CPARS. Contractors may access evaluations at www.cpars.csd.disa.mil for review and comment in CPARS. (End of Clause) H.2 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED OR CONTRACTOR ACQUIRED PROPERTY

Equipment provided by the Government or acquired by the Contractor for the performance of work under this contract shall be maintained and accounted for in accordance with the provisions of FAR Part 45. At the conclusion of the contract, all equipment provided by the Government to the Contractor shall be returned to the Government in the same condition as when provided to the Contractor, less normal wear and tear. The Contractor is responsible for transporting all equipment to FHWA at the conclusion of the contract. H.3 QUALITY ASSURANCE STATEMENT

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) provides high-quality information to serve Government, industry, and the public in a manner that promotes public understanding. Standards and policies are used to ensure and maximize the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of its information. FHWA periodically reviews quality issues and adjusts its programs and processes to ensure continuous quality improvement. H.4 REPRINTS OF PUBLICATIONS

At such time that any article resulting from work under this contract is published, two reprints of the publication shall be sent to the COTR, clearly referencing this contract number and any other appropriate handling information. Written notification shall also be provided to the Contracting Officer. H.5 REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING SECTION 508 STANDARDS

The following applies to all FHWA Contracts issued on or after June 25, 2001, for Preparation of Technical reports or other documents that FHWA plans to post on a website.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 23 of 54

In addition to the work requirements specified in this statement of work, vendors must ensure that all electronic documents that they prepare will meet the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The act requires that all electronic products prepared for the Federal Government be accessible to persons with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, cognitive, and mobility impairments. Vendors can view Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm) and the Federal IT Accessibility Initiative (Home Page) (http://section508.gov/) for detailed information. Applicable Standards The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this contract: _______1194.21 Software applications and operating systems. ___X____1194.22 Web-based intranet and Internet information and applications. _______1194.23 Telecommunications products. _______1194.24 Video and multimedia products. _______1194.25 Self contained, closed products. _______1194.26 Desktop and portable computers. The FHWA has determined that the accessibility requirements contained in the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards, Section 1194.22, "Web-based intranet and internet information and applications," apply to this work. The standards are available at www.accessboard.gov/sec508/508standards.htm. The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible, if so required by the agency, in the future. The following paragraphs summarize the requirements for preparing FHWA reports in conformance with Section 508 for eventual posting by FHWA to an FHWA -sponsored website. If you have further questions, please contact the FHWA contracting officer's technical representative listed in this statement of work. Electronic documents with images: Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element in all publications prepared in electronic format. Use descriptions (such as, "alt" and "longdesc") for all non-text images or place them in element content. For all documents prepared, vendors must prepare one standard HTML format (as described in this statement of work) AND one text format that includes descriptions for all non-text images. "Text equivalent" means text sufficient to reasonably describe the image. For example, an image that is merely decorative requires only a very brief "text equivalent" description. However, if the image conveys information that is important to the content of the report, then text sufficient to reasonably describe that image and its purpose within the context of the report must be provided.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 24 of 54

Electronic documents with complex charts or data tables: When preparing tables that are heavily designed, provide adequate alternate information so that assistive technologies can read them out. Identify row and column headers for data tables. Provide the information in a non-linear form. Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. Electronic documents with forms: When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues SPECIFICATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC DELIVERABLES All electronic deliverables shall be supplied in both Microsoft Office file format (e.g. Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Access, and Visio) and/or PDF Format as required by the Government. All text should be in Times New Roman or Arial 12 pt. Font. The FHWA style guide should be used for reference citations and style. Graphs and charts should be clearly labeled using APA style and, while color may be used, they should be friendly for black and white printing. All deliverables are the property of the United States Government, and may be posted on a public website or submitted to a conference or meeting for distribution. As such, all media shall be fully accessible and in compliance with FAR 39.2 and TAM NOTE 01-03/Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (see below). H.6 RIGHTS IN DATA AND REPORTS

Property rights, including publication rights, in progress reports, final reports, source code and data first produced under this contract, provided for hereunder shall rest with the Government and the contractor, in accordance with the Rights in Data ­ General clause at FAR 52.227-14General. H.7 LIMITATION ON FUTURE CONTRACTING

It is agreed by the parties of this contract that the Contractor may be restricted in its future contracting with FHWA in accordance with FAR Par 9.5, Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest. Should the CO determine that issues of OIC exist, action shall be taken in accordance with the above referenced FAR subpart. (End of Section H)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 25 of 54

PART II ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES
SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES
I.1 PRINTING RESTRICTIONS

All printing funded by this agreement must be done in conformance with Joint Committee on Printing regulations as prescribed in Title 44, United States Code, and Section 308 of Public Law 101-163, and all applicable Government Printing Office and Department of Transportation regulations. 52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

All Contractors desiring to receive awards of DOT contracts, purchase orders, delivery orders, or other contractual vehicles must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database before receiving an award, and throughout the contract's period of performance. The CCR is a Department of Defense web-based repository of Contractor information. Interested Offerors should read and understand the requirements of FAR 52.204-7. The Offeror must register in the CCR prior to receiving any DOT contract awards, and must maintain current, updated information in CCR throughout the performance period of the contract. The Electronic Funds Transfer information in the CCR must be accurate in order for Contractors' invoices or contract financing requests to be considered proper invoices for the purpose of prompt payment under DOT contracts. Offerors can register in CCR at any time and are encouraged to do so immediately. Offerors may register in the CCR database and obtain additional information at http://www.ccr.gov. The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR, and for any liability resulting from the DOT's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor must confirm on an annual basis that its information in the database is accurate and complete. *****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS*********** Current and potential U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) contractors have recently been receiving fraudulent letters purporting to be issued by DOT. These fraudulent letters request that contractors resubmit their Central Contractor Registration System (CCR) banking information to DOT. If you receive such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the facsimile number cited in the letter. Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system. However, to register,

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 26 of 54

contractors are required to go directly through the CCR website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For information on how to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/. 52.209-9 UPDATES OF PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (JAN 2011)

(a) The Contractor shall update the information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) on a semi-annual basis, throughout the life of the contract, by entering the required information in the Central Contractor Registration database at http://www/ccr.gov (b) (1) The Contractor will receive notification when the Government posts new information to the Contractor's record. (2) The Contractor will have an opportunity to post comments regarding information that has been posted by the Government. The comments will be retained as long as the associated information is retained, i.e., for a total period of 6 years. Contractor comments will remain a part of the record unless the contractor revises them.
(3)

(i)

(ii)

Public requests for system information posted prior to April 15, 2011, will be handled under Freedom of Information Act procedures, including, where appropriate, procedures promulgated under E.O. 12600. As required by section 3010 of Public Law 111-212, all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. (End of Clause)

52.216-18 (a)

ORDERING (OCT 1995)

(b)

Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from _____________ through __________________. All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 27 of 54

(c)

If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of clause)

52.216-19 (a)

ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995)

(b)

(c)

Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than ___________, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor-- (1) Any order for a single item in excess of ______; (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of ________ or quantity]; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within _______ days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within _____ days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of clause)

(d)

52.216-22 (a)

INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995)

(b)

This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 28 of 54

(c)

(d)

ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after ________. (End of clause)

52.222-2

PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS

(JUL 1990)

(a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium cost does not exceed [$0] or the overtime premium is paid for work: (1) Necessary to cope with emergencies such as those resulting from accidents, natural disasters, breakdowns of production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature; By indirect-labor employees such as those performing duties in connection with administration, protection, transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation of utilities, or accounting; To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances, and operations in flight or afloat that are continuous in nature and cannot reasonably be interrupted or completed otherwise; or That will result in lower overall costs to the Government.

(2)

(3)

(4)

(b) Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall: (1) Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with present workload, staffing, and other data of the a affected unit sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the necessity for the overtime;

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 29 of 54

(2)

Demonstrate the effect that denial of the request will have on the contract delivery or performance schedule; Identify the extent to which approval of overtime would affect the performance or payments in connection with other Government contracts, together with identification of each affected contract; and

(3)

(4)

Provide reasons why the required work cannot be performed by using multi-shift operations or by employing additional personnel.

NOTE: A written request shall be forwarded to the CO and COTR, in advance of any overtime. 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the CO will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far/.

I. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) 52.202-1 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-8 Definitions (JULY 2004) Gratuities (APR 1984) Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984) Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEPT 2006) Anti-Kickback Procedures (OCT 2010) Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) Limitation on Payment to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010) Security Requirements (AUG 1989) Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (AUG 2000) Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011)

7. 8.

52.203-10 52.203-12

9. 10. 11.

52.204-2 52.204-4 52.204-9

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 30 of 54

12.

52-204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (JUL 2010) 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) Audit and Records ­ Negotiation (OCT 2010) ­ Alternate II (APR 1998) Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997) Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (AUG 2011) Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (OCT 2010) Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money (OCT 1997) Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions (JUL 2005) Notification of Ownership Changes (OCT 1997) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other than Cost or Pricing Data ­ Modifications (OCT 2010) Price Redetermination Prospective (OCT 1997) Allowable Cost and Payment (DEC 2002) The designated payment office will make interim payments for contract financing on the "30th" day after the designated billing office receives a proper payment request. Fixed Fee (JUN 2011) Single or Multiple Awards (OCT 1995) Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) Small Business Subcontracting Plan (JAN 2011) Post-Award Small Business Program Re-representation (APR 2009) Convict Labor (JUNE 2003) Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999)

13.

14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19.

52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-10 52.215-15 52.215-17 52.215-18

20. 21.

52.215-19 52.215-21

22. 23.

52.216-5 52.216-7

24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30.

52.216-8 52.216-27 52.219-8 52.219-9 52.219-28 52.222-3 52.222-21

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 31 of 54

31. 32.

52.222-26 52.222-35

Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEPT 2010) Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEPT 2010) Compliance With Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements (SEPT 2010) Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009) Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001) Contracting Policy to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (SEPT 2010) Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to IranCertification (SEP 2010) Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007) Patent Rights ­Ownership by the Contractor (DEC 2007) Rights in Data - General (DEC 2007) Representation of Limited Data and Restricted Computer Software (DEC 2007) Insurance - Liability to Third Persons (MAR 1996) Federal, State, and Local Taxes (APR 2003) Cost Accounting Standards (OCT 2010)

33. 34.

52.222-36 52.222-37

35.

52.222-38

36.

52.222-40

37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42.

52.222-50 52.222-54 52.223-6 52.223-18 52.225-13 52.225-25

43. 44.

52.227-1 52.227-2

45. 46. 47.

52.227-11 52.227-14 52.227-15

48. 49. 50.

52.228-7 52.229-3 52.230-2

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 32 of 54

51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. 57. 58.

52.230-3 52.230-6 52.232-17 52.232-20 52.232-22 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33

Disclosure and Consistency in Cost Accounting Practices (OCT 2008) Administration of Cost Accounting Standards (JUN 2010) Interest (OCT 2010) Limitation of Cost. (APR 1984) Limitation of Funds (APR 1984) Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986) Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) - Alternate I (FEB 2002) Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003) Disputes (JUL 2002) ­ Alternate I (DEC 1991) Protest after Award (AUG 1996) - Alternate I (JUN 1985) Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) Site Visit (APR 1994) Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (APR 1984) Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs (APR 1984) Penalties for Unallowable Costs (MAY 2001) Certification of Final Indirect Costs (JAN 1997) Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) Changes ­ Fixed Price (AUG 1987) Changes - Cost-Reimbursement (AUG 1987) - Alternate II (APR 1984) Notification of Changes (APR 1984) Subcontracts (OCT 2010) - Alternate I (JUN 2007) Competition in Subcontracting (DEC 1996)

59. 60. 61. 62. 63.

52.233-1 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.237-1 52.237-2

64. 65. 66. 67. 68. 69. 70. 71. 72.

52.242-1 52.242-3 52.242-4 52.242-13 52.243-1 52.243-2 52.243-7 52.244-2 52.244-5

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 33 of 54

73. 74. 75. 76. 77. 78.

52.244-6 52.245-1 52.245-6 52.245-9 52.251-1 52.253-1

Subcontracts for Commercial Items (DEC 2010) Government Property (AUG 2010) Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (May 2004) Use and Charges (AUG 2010) Government Supply Sources (AUG 2010) Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)

II.

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (48 CHAPTER 12) CLAUSES Accident and Fire Reporting (APR 2005) Seat Belt Use Policies and Programs (APR 2005) Research Misconduct (APR 2005) Dissemination of Information (OCT 1994) Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (OCT 1994) Government Property Reports (OCT 1994) (End of Section I)

1252.223.71 1252.223-73 1252.235-70 1252.242-70 1252.242-73 1252.245-70

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 34 of 54

PART III
SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
1. FHWA Cost Reimbursement Billing Instructions 2. Price Proposal Budget Summary 3. Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities 4. OF-17 Offer Label ­ Notice to Offeror 5. Past Performance Questionnaire 6. The latest version of the LTPP IMS Operations Manual

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 35 of 54

PART IV
SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR QUOTERS
K.1 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (JAN 2011)

a)

(1) (2) (3)

(b) (1) (2)

(c) (1)

The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541330. The small business size standard is $4.5M The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated.

(d)

The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 36 of 54

NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR Clause Title Date Change

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of provision)

K.2

FEDERAL PROCUREMENT DATA

Each Contractor receiving an award over $25,000 will be requested to provide the information as set forth below: (1) DUNS Number:___________________________________________________ If the number is not known, it can be obtained from the local Dun and Bradstreet office.) Home Office County and Congressional District: __________________________________________________________________ Congressional District of the Principal place of performance: __________________________________________________________________ SIC (Standard Industrial Code): __________________________________________________________________

(2)

(3)

(4)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 37 of 54

K.3

NOTIFICATION OF DEFECTIVE INVOICES

Each Contractor receiving an award will be requested to identify a person or office to be contacted for prompt notification regarding the receipt by the Government of a defective invoice.

Name _____________________________________________________________________ Title ______________________________________________________________________ Address ___________________________________________________________________ City & State Area Code Telex No. ___________ __ Zip Code ________________

Telephone No._________________________ __________ TWX ____________________________

TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR

Name: __ By: (Signature) __

Date: ______________________________ _____________________________ (Title)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 38 of 54

K.4 CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (APR 2010) (a)(1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that-- (i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals-- (A) (B) Are o are not o presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency;

Have o have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property (if offeror checks "have", the offeror shall also see 52.209-7, if included in this solicitation); (C) Are o are not o presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; (D) Have o, have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (2) Examples. (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. § 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 39 of 54

(ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. § 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. § 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (ii) The Offeror has o has not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency. (2) "Principal," for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror's responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by

(c)

(d)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 40 of 54

(e)

paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. (End of provision)

SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS
L.1 IMPORTANT DELIVERY INFORMATION:

Security procedures prohibit non-uniformed couriers from delivering material directly to offices in the DOT building. Only uniformed couriers from FedEx and the United Parcel Service, who are dressed in a uniform bearing their organization's name and possessing official identification, may deliver proposals or sealed bids directly to the Office of Acquisition Management. Nonuniformed couriers must deliver material to the East Building guard station at the FHWA Headquarters loading dock. The guard will accept the material, dismiss the courier, and then the material will be examined prior to being delivered to E65-101 through the normal FHWA Headquarters mail delivery procedures, which may take up to a day or more. If the Offeror plans to use non-uniformed couriers, it should make allowances for these procedures in order to assure that offers arrive at E65-101 on time. Bids/offers must be received by the FHWA Office of Acquisition Management by the time and date due, to be considered timely, not just delivered to the mail room/visitor's center. To assist in expediting delivery, the outside of the envelop/package containing the offer must be marked with the completed Optional Form 17, Offer Label, available on line at http://www/fhwa.dot.gov/aaa/forms.htm. Further, please be advised that all of our mail (items handled by the U.S. Postal Service) is sent out of town for scanning and irradiation prior to delivery to the building. This process can add several days to your mailing time, even from local addresses. Please keep these factors in mind as you determine the best means to deliver your proposal so as to ensure delivery in the Office of Acquisition Management by the time and date stated on page 1 of this solicitation. L.2 PROPOSAL DELIVERY

When/Where/How Many to Submit: The offeror shall submit an original and three (3) written copies of both the technical and business proposals. In addition, the offeror shall submit the Technical proposal and Business proposal in electronic format. The Proposals are due no

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 41 of 54

later than 3:00 PM EST November 11, 2011, at the following address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management Attn: Gina Jackson, Contract Specialist 1200 New Jersey Avenue, Southeast Room E65-101 Mail Code: HAAM-30 Washington, DC 20590 (Please list the solicitation number and closing date on the forwarding envelope) NOTES: With respect to The Procurement Integrity Act requirements regarding "proprietary information," your attention is directed to FAR 3.104-4(d)(1),(2)and (3). Facsimile bids/proposals will not be considered for this solicitation. L.3 AMENDMENTS TO SOLICITATION

This RFP is being transmitted electronically. Offerors are reminded that if you download copies of this or any other solicitation you will NOT automatically receive amendments to those solicitations. It is the offeror's responsibility to check back frequently to the download source to see if any amendments have been issued to solicitations you have downloaded. All amendments will be posted to, and downloadable from www.fedbizopps.gov. L.4 PRE-PROPOSAL TELE-CONFERENCE

NOTE: A Pre-Proposal tele-conference is tentatively being planned. Details will be provided in a subsequent amendment to the solicitation. Advance questions should be directed to Gina.Jackson@dot.gov by October 10, 2011. Please register to receive Fedbizopps notifications for the RFP. " L.5 ADMINISTRATIVE POINT OF CONTACT

Please direct all questions to Ms. Gina Jackson at email Gina.Jackson@dot.gov or phone number (202) 366-4087. L.6 (a) 52.215-16 FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (JUNE 2003)

Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the criteria for allowability in FAR 31.205-10(b) are met. One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 42 of 54

(b)

If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. (End of provision)

L.7

52.216-1

TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)

The Government contemplates an indefinite-delivery-indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract utilizing cost reimbursable and/or fixed price task orders resulting from this solicitation. NOTE: THIS IS A FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION REQUIREMENT. THE FHWA INTENDS TO MAKE ONE AWARD RESULTING FROM THIS RFP.

L.8 (a)

52.233-2

SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Mr. Frank Waltos, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, Southeast, Room E65-312, Washington, DC 20590. The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

(b)

L.9

52.252-1

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): www.acquisition.gov/far. SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE In accordance with FAR provision 52.252-1, the following provisions are incorporated by reference:

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 43 of 54

52.204-6 Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number (APR 2008) 52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors - Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004) 52.215-16 Facilities Capital Cost of Money (JUN 2003) 52.232-38 Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer (MAY 1999) FAR 52.252-3 ALTERATIONS IN SOLICITATION (APR 1984)

Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: [ ] None at this time (End of Clause) FAR 52.252-5 (a) AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN PROVISIONS (APR 1984)

The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. The use in this solicitation of any Department of Transportation Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 12) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the regulation. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS

(b)

L.10

The following establishes the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals. The Government's evaluation criteria are delineated in Section M, herein. Offerors are advised to carefully review Section M in preparing their proposal submission. A. PROPOSAL FORMAT

All Offerors shall submit the following: 1. RFP Section A, Blocks 12 through 18 of Standard Form 33 must be filled in as appropriate, signed and returned in Volume II. A completed Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, must be completed and submitted in Volume II. (See Section J.2) Each offeror shall submit an original and three (3) written copies of both the technical and business proposals. In addition, the offeror shall submit two (2) Compact Discs (CDs); One (1) containing its Business Proposal, and one (1) containing its Technical Proposal. The cost

2.

3.

4.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 44 of 54

information shall be provided in an interactive format (Excel). All other documents may be provided in a PDF file. 5. The proposal shall consist of two separately bound volumes: Volume I ­ Technical Proposal (Parts I ­ III) Part I ­ Technical Approach Part II ­ Staffing Proposal Part III ­ Organizational Capabilities Volume II ­ Business and Cost/Price Proposal (Parts I to IV) Part I - Cost/Price Information Part II ­ Other Financial/Organization Information Part III- Small Business Subcontracting Plan Part IV ­ Past Performance The format of the above proposal volumes shall be as follows: 1. Proposals shall be prepared on 8˝ x 11 inch paper except for foldouts used for charts, tables or figures, which shall not exceed 11 x 17 inches. Foldouts shall not be used for text, and shall count as two pages. 2. A page is defined as one side of an 8 ˝ by 11 inch paper. Therefore, a piece of paper with printing on both sides is considered two pages. 3. Text shall be printed using a font size no less than 12 cpi. 4. Page margins shall be a minimum of 1inch top, bottom and each side. 5. No cost/price data shall be included in VOLUME I. B. VOLUME I -TECHNICAL PROPOSAL PART I - TECHNICAL APPROACH ­ shall not exceed 60 pages Review the requirements and tasks listed in Section C, as well as the other sections of this Solicitation and include a detailed discussion for each of the elements described under "Technical Factors" in Section M. Describe in detail the technical approach, management and execution plan for each task listed in Section C. Discuss and define quality performance and how quality performance shall be measured, and the steps that will be taken should performance not meet the standards you define. Explain the strategy for maintaining, managing, and submitting all deliverables on schedule and with high quality. PART II ­ STAFFING ­ shall not exceed 40 pages (excluding resumes)

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 45 of 54

The offeror shall clearly identify each of the key personnel. Changes to key personnel after the Contract award are subjective to COTR's approval. The following are recommended minimum qualifications for the key personnel positions to effectively fulfill the contract requirements. KEY PERSONNEL The Government anticipates two or three individuals will be designated as Key Personnel, covering both the computer software programming and the pavement performance engineering expertise. ˇ ˇ ˇ Project Manager (PM) Computer Software Lead (CSL) Pavement Engineering Lead (PEL)

Project Manager and/or Principal Investigator (PM) - The Project Manager (PM) provides routine direction and general oversight and supervision to the Contractor's staff. This individual shall have considerable experience on managing large complex projects involving coordination of multiple teams and/or transportation agencies. This person shall have a Bachelor's degree in Engineering or Computer Science. This individual shall possess administrative and supervisory skills and be in a position in the Contractor's organization to quickly and effectively direct required resources to achieve results and/or make corrections in the Contractor procedures and processes to conform to LTPP requirements. The PM shall be responsible for monitoring and submitting the contract deliverables on time and with high quality that meet the contract requirements. Computer Software Lead (CSL) - The proposed CSL shall be responsible for leading the web interface program design and development. The CSL is also anticipated to be the primary lead software programmer for the LTPP Web Interface Program. The CSL should have demonstrated expertise and experience in leading and designing web based interface programs. The CSL should have in-depth expertise and hands-on experience in both developing web based interface programs and managing or developing software applications with the OracleŽ databases. The CSL should have a minimum of a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, or equivalent. In addition, this individual should be proficient on Oracle relational database programming and knowledge of the OracleŽ relational database systems and supporting software (10g and beyond) and web-based GIS application development. Excellent organizational and communication skills are required since this position will play a major role in coordination and documentation. Pavement Engineering Lead (PEL) - The PEL shall lead the pavement engineering activities including but not limited to: designing the LTPP Web Interface Program engineering functionalities, leading the development of the necessary data manipulation methodologies for various data graphical presentation and custom queries, overseeing the implementation and quality control (QC) and QA (quality assurance) of the engineering functionalities, developing future roadmaps of the LTPP WIP. This individual(s) should have considerable experience on large projects involving the coordination of multiple teams and/or transportation agencies. The PEL should have considerable knowledge and/or experience in pavement performance research using LTPP data, pavement design principles, MEPDG principles and calibration, pavement

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 46 of 54

materials, performance monitoring, and development and analysis of performance models. This person should have a Master's degree in Civil Engineering or equivalent highway pavement engineering related experience, as well as LTPP program related knowledge. OTHER PERSONNEL In addition to the Key Personnel, the offerors may propose other personnel. The Government anticipates the following personnel and roles needed for this contract: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Senior Engineer Computer Programmer (for both web based software development and testing) Project Engineer Subject Matter Expert Support Staff (e.g. Technical Editor, Web Graphics Designer, and Administrative Support)

The Staffing portion shall consist of a clear description of how the proposed staffing meets the qualifications and expertise required by the various sections of this Solicitation. Provide the names, proposed level of effort, and resumes of all proposed personnel. Resumes (3-5 page limit) shall clearly identify the individual's education, experience, and list the staffing category to which he/she will be assigned. Provide evidence that all proposed personnel are available and committed to fulfill the estimated annual level of effort requirements specified for their labor category. If subcontracting for professional staffing is required, indicate the number and types to be subcontracted to other sources and provide letters of commitment for each subcontractor and consultant. This effort requires two distinct sets of expertise: 1) computer software development, and 2) pavement engineering. To form an effective project team, the Government anticipates teaming arrangements in place to provide both sets of the expertise required, as appropriate. On the computer software development side, the following are the recommended minimum qualifications and experience: ˇ Developing effective web interface programs for large Oracle databases, including enabling the users to download large database tables and related files through a web portal effectively; ˇ Developing GIS web interface programs; ˇ Experience in managing and manipulation of Oracle databases; ˇ Data mining and graphical presentation of relevant data and information from large diverse information warehouses; ˇ Incorporating and/or converting previously developed (legacy) software program into one web interface. On the pavement engineering side, the following are the recommended minimum qualifications:

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 47 of 54

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Experience with pavement performance modeling and related research, taking into consideration traffic loading, environment, subgrade, materials, temporal and spatial variations, maintenance and rehabilitations, and construction. Knowledge of LTPP program, pavement performance monitoring, LTPP IMS, researches and products from or using LTPP data. Experience in Mechanistic-empirical pavement design principles, particularly the latest Mechanistic-Empirical Pavement Design Guide (MEPDG), its input data, and future enhancement and calibration data requirements. Experience in Pavement management systems, maintenance and preservation, and other related topics.

ESTIMATED LEVEL OF EFFORT The Government's anticipated level of effort by labor category and task is shown below. Direct productive labor hours are defined as actual labor hours exclusive of vacation, holiday and sick leave. Base Period/24 months (Contract Years 1 and 2) -- The Government's estimated level of effort are provided below. The Government's level of effort estimates are advisory and should be used as a general guide and not be considered as a maximum or minimum limit by the offeror in preparing its proposal. Option Periods/Option Years 1 through 3) (Contract Years 3 through 5)--Due to the uncertain nature of future Task Orders that may be issued under this contract, Offerors are directed to propose the direct productive labor hours listed below for all option years. During the performance of the option years, the actual staffing requirements will be established through the issuance of Task Orders. Estimated level of effort for Direct Productive Hours Description Base Base Period Period (12 months) (12 months) 340 340 470 470 600 310 1710 240 200 130 600 310 1710 240 200 130 Option Year 1 500 660 900 900 2500 500 240 200 Option Year 2 500 660 900 900 2500 500 240 200 Option Year 3 500 660 900 900 2500 500 240 200 Total Hours 2180 2920 3900 10920 14340 1980 1120 860

Project Manager Pavement Engineer Lead (PEL) Computer Software Lead (CSL) Sr. Engineer Computer Programmer Project Engineers Support Staff Subject Matter Experts (SME) Total Hours

4000

4000

6400

6400

6400

27200

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 48 of 54

PART III - ORGANIZATIONAL CAPABILITY Address each of the bullets listed in Section M under "Organizational Capability". In addressing employee motivation and rewards, please bear in mind that the government desires astute, proactive, motivated talent, working together in an environment that fosters creativity, initiative and communication. C. VOLUME II - BUSINESS AND COST/PRICE PROPOSAL

This volume shall be separate from volume I, and shall contain all pricing information and certain general financial/organizational information as described below: PART I - COST/PRICE INFORMATION The cost or price proposal shall be specific and complete in every detail. Cost figures shall not be shown in the forwarding letter or in the technical or staffing proposals. Offerors shall submit a budget summary for the entire potential 60 months contract period of performance and a separate summary for each potential year of the project. Costs shall be broken out by task and labor category for the base period. Budget summaries shall clearly identify the following information as applicable: a. Labor Rates ­ Provide standard labor rates for each proposed staff by labor category. Include number of hours and yearly escalation. Anticipated promotions for any personnel shall be included with the escalation calculation. The annual direct labor escalation rate and its basis shall be clearly stated with the proposal. Productive Hours ­ Provide detailed information on how "direct productive hours" are defined and how vacation, sick and other types of leave are accrued, accounted for, and charged. Indirect Rates ­ Discuss the proposed rates for all years. Identify the various specific indirect rates and what they are based on (e.g., labor overhead based on direct labor dollars) and how they are applied/calculated. State any differing rate applications (for example if there is a different proposed rate when applied to travel than when applied to Subcontractor costs) Offerors must provide dollar values as well as percentages. Discuss the impact to indirect rates if awarded this contract?

b.

c.

d. Subcontracting/Consultants: If Subcontractors and/or individual consultants will be used in carrying out the requirements of this project, the following information concerning the Subcontractor shall be furnished: (1) (2) Name and address of the Subcontractor or consultant. Identify the individual's name, positions and the portion of work to be conducted

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 49 of 54

by the Subcontractor or consultant. (3) Cost/price proposal (with supporting information as necessary).

NOTE: Prime Contractors/Offerors are responsible for performing a cost/price analysis on all their proposed Subcontractors/consultants in accordance with FAR 15.404-3. A cost/price analysis report must accompany each named Subcontractor/consultant as defined at FAR 15.404-3. (4) A letter or other statement from each proposed consultant and/or Subcontractor indicating that they have been approached on the matter of participation in this project and are willing and able to do so in the terms indicated.

e.

Other Direct Costs (ODC) & Travel: This category includes materials, equipment, travel, etc. The Offeror shall consolidate ODCs into one line item. However, a separate schedule shall be provided to breakdown ODCs. The schedule shall provide a detailed itemization of each ODC proposed, and shall also provide rationale for the need of each item. Base Period/24 months (Contract Years 1 and 2) -- The Government's estimated ODC and travel costs are provided below. Option Periods/Contract Years 3 through 5 (Optional Years 1 through 3)--Due to the uncertain nature of future Task Orders that may be issued under this contract, Offerors are directed to use the plug amounts directed below.

Description

Travel ODCs TOTAL ODCs f.

Breakout by Base Period (Years 1 and 2) (24 months) $13,000/year $10,000/year $23,000/year

Breakout by Option Periods 1, 2 and 3 (Years 3, 4, and 5) $15,000/year $8,000/year $23,000/year

Other Division: If other divisions, subsidiaries, a parent or affiliated companies, will perform work or furnish materials under this proposed contract, please provide the name and location of such affiliate and your inter-company pricing policy. Right of Examination: By submitting your proposal, you, if selected for negotiation, grant the CO or an authorized representative the right to examine those books, records, documents, and other supporting data that will permit adequate evaluation of the proposed price. This right may be exercised at any time before award. The FHWA may use an independent Contractor for cost and price analyses.

g.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 50 of 54

h.

Profit/Fee: Offerors shall include a proposed fee and its application base (especially if Fee varies by cost category). The basis for the amount of fee and fee percentage should be explained.

PART II - OTHER FINANCIAL/ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION General Information. You must attach a supplemental sheet providing the following information: a. b. Indicate your fiscal year period (provide month to month dates). Indicate whether the proposed indirect cost rate(s) have been audited and accepted by any Federal audit agency. Give name, location and telephone number of the agency, and the date of acceptance. If no Federal audit has taken place, data supporting the proposed rates over the past three years must accompany the cost proposal. The data shall include a breakdown of the items comprising overhead and G&A, and the base upon which the burdens are computed. Indicate whether your system of control of Government property has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the Government agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether written purchasing procedures exist, and whether your purchasing system has been approved by a Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Indicate whether your accounting system has been approved by any Government agency. If so, provide the name, location and telephone number of the cognizant agency, and date of approval. Attach a current financial statement, including a balance sheet and income statement for the last completed fiscal year. Specify resources available to perform the contract without assistance from any other source. If sufficient funds are not available, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source (i.e., bank loans, letter or lines of credit, etc.). Your DUNS and TIN numbers.

c.

d.

e.

f.

g.

PART III - SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN As required by FAR 52.219-9, the offeror shall submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan in solicitations and contracts that are expected to exceed $650,000. As such, the offeror shall submit Attachment J.4 as part of its proposal submission. All subcontracting plans and statements supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities must be acceptable to the

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 51 of 54

Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate an acceptable subcontracting plan or a statement supporting the absence of subcontracting opportunities shall render the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. The subcontracting plan will become part of the contract. PART IV - PAST PERFORMANCE In VOLUME II under the original copy, Offerors shall include a minimum of three completed Past Performance Questionnaires by the Offerors customers (SECTION J.6). 1. The completed questionnaires must be submitted by current (within the last three years) customers (include both commercial and Government if applicable) involving similar or related services, at similar dollar values if possible. The completed questionnaires shall be from independent sources. Offerors must submit each completed customer questionnaire in a separate envelope that has been sealed by the customer for confidentiality. The Government may contact the customer point of contact (POC) for verification. POC telephone and facsimile numbers must be accurate and current. The CO will consider such performance information, along with information from other sources, in determining the past performance rating and deciding whether the Offeror is to be considered responsible, as defined in FAR 9.104. The Offeror is responsible for ensuring the questionnaires are completed in a timely manner and are submitted with its VOLUME II proposal. (End of Section L)

2. 3.

4.

5.

SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD
M.1 EVALUATION CRITERIA

The Government's source selection decision will be based on a Best Value Tradeoff process which will evaluate the following factors listed in order of descending importance: 1) Technical Factors that include Technical Approach, and Resources that consist of Staffing and Organizational Capability; 2) Cost; 3) Past Performance; and 4) Small Business (SB) and Small Disadvantaged Business Participation (SDB). When combined, technical factors, past performance, and SB/SDB participation are significantly more important than cost. Each of these factors is described below.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 52 of 54

1.

Technical Factors

Technical Approach Technical approach and capability in meeting the requirements of the statement of work, including: 1) Demonstrated understanding of the scope of the effort as shown by the offeror's discussion of its approach to meeting the Government's requirement, and its proposed program timeline and milestones schedule. 2) Overall work plan for execution, and overall project management to ensure quality product and timeliness, coordination with FHWA and others as needed, and plan to resolve issues when they arise. 3) Technical approach toward the statement of work: i) Task A.1, developing framework of the LTPP WIP, including approaches to select the appropriate software platform, tools for the development of LTPP WIP that will satisfy the long-term needs of the LTPP program and its users. ii) Task A.2 developing the LTPP WIP 1.0, including testing and QC/QA plan, and user support. iii) Task B, planning, coordination, and outreach. iv) Reasonableness and responsiveness of the proposed execution schedule, deliverables, and milestones.. 2. Staffing and Resources

As outlined in Section L under "Staffing", this RFP requires two very distinct sets of expertise: 1) computer software development, and 2) pavement engineering. The proposed staffing will be evaluated by the following factors: 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) Computer software development expertise and demonstrated experience in meeting the requirements of the statement of work, and as described in Section L. Pavement engineering expertise and experiences in meeting the requirements of the statement of work, and as described in Section L. The relevancy, depth, and breadth of qualifications, experience, and education for proposed key personnel, as described in Section L. Qualification of other team members and subcontractors, and the extent to which they meet the Government's needs as specified within this solicitation. Staffing Plan for statement of work: Reasonableness and adequacy of the proposed staffing, their roles and responsibilities, level of effort and its distribution among tasks for both the base period of the potential option years.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 53 of 54

3. 1) 2) 3)

Organizational Capability Organizational hierarchies, roles, responsibilities, and lines of communication between team members. Plans to efficiently manage employees during periods of variable workloads and crosstrain personnel. The ability to provide continued and appropriate services during periods when vacancies may occur related to poor performance, retirement, new Government requirements, and/or normal turnover. Plan and capability to quickly fill vacant positions. Cost Evaluation Cost proposals will be evaluated for cost reasonableness and realism in accordance with FAR 15.404. Cost will not be numerically scored. The Government will evaluate the individual cost elements (labor rates, indirect rates, etc.) to ensure proposed cost elements are fair, reasonable and allowable.

2.

3.

Past Performance

The Government will evaluate the relevant merits of each offeror's past performance on the basis of its reputation with its former customers. The lack of a relevant or recent past performance record will result in a rating of neutral. The Government may review some or all of the following past performance areas: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Timeliness; Delivery or Performance; Problem Responsiveness; Quality of Purchased Product or Services; Cost Control; Technical Support; and Delivered Quantities.

In evaluating Past Performance, the Government may consider information provided by offerors in their proposal submissions, as well as any other information available to the Government. 4. Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Participation

As required by FAR 15.304 (c), the Government will consider the following information in evaluating the offeror's proposed SDB Participation: 1. 2. 3. Percentage of total contract value. Complexity of work to be performed by Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Businesses (i.e. work considered technology or research intensive). Specific identification of Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business subcontractors with associated work.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Page 54 of 54

4.

Reasonableness of the offeror's proposed plans and procedures for attaining the proposed Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business targets.

(End of Section M)

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx i

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Technical Report Documentation Page
1. Report No. 2. Government Accession No. 3. Recipient's Catalog No.

TBD
4. Title and Subtitle 5. Report Date

LONG-TERM PAVEMENT PERFORMANCE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OPERATIONS MANUAL
7. Author(s)

December 2010
6. Performing Organization Code

8. Performing Organization Report No.

Miriam Pitz and Tommy Clark
9. Performing Organization Name and Address 10. Work Unit No. (TRAIS) 11. Contract or Grant No.

Scientific Applications International Corporation (SAIC) 151 Lafayette Dr., Oak Ridge, TN 37830
12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address

DTFH61-09-F-00046
13. Type of Report and Period Covered

Office of Infrastructure Research and Development Federal Highway Administration 6300 Georgetown Pike McLean, VA 22101-2296
15. Supplementary Notes

Operations Manual, May 2009 ­ December 2010
14. Sponsoring Agency Code

Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR): Jane Jiang, HRDI-13
16. Abstract

This document provides information about the Long-Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) Program`s database operations. This document provides specific information about maintaining and upgrading the LTPP database servers, operating systems and software, performing DBA functions, tracking change requests, producing software releases, and producing the annual Standard Data Release. It provides information about using the RIMS Application, including running QC programs, data loaders and entering data into the Pavement Performance Database (PPDB) with data entry forms. References to the Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) are included. In addition, it provides an overview of regional activities that relate to the database and data entry applications.
17. Key Words 18. Distribution Statement

Database, database server, general pavement studies, LTPP, pavement performance, specific pavement studies, LTAS, operating system, RIMS, AIMS, central database, regional database, server maintenance, anti-virus, backup software, relational database, database tools, SDR, standard data release, DBA functions, user administration, SPR, uploads, software release, QC output, data loaders, data entry forms, QC Manual.
19. Security Classif. (of this report) 20. Security Classif. (of this page) 21. No. of Pages 22. Price

Unclassified Form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72)

Unclassified
Reproduction of completed page authorized

131

ii

Table of Contents
Introduction ...................................................................................................................... xi Chapter 1. 1.1 1.2 1.3 LTPP System Overview ............................................................................ 1 LTPP Program .................................................................................................. 1 LTPP Data ......................................................................................................... 1 LTPP Information Management System (IMS)............................................. 1 1.3.1 1.3.2 1.4 Central Database ......................................................................................... 2 Regional Databases ..................................................................................... 2

Major IMS Components................................................................................... 3 1.4.1 Pavement Performance Database (PPDB) .................................................. 3 1.4.1.1 Production PPDB .................................................................................... 3 1.4.1.2 PPDB Development/Test Environment .................................................. 3 1.4.1.3 RIMS Application ................................................................................... 4 1.4.1.4 PPDB Data Modules ............................................................................... 4 1.4.2 LTPP Traffic Analysis Database (LTASDB) ............................................. 7 1.4.2.1 Production LTASDB .............................................................................. 7 1.4.2.2 LTASDB Development Environment..................................................... 7 1.4.2.3 LTPP Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) Application ........................... 7 1.4.3 Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS) ................................. 7

Chapter 2. 2.1

LTPP Database Servers ............................................................................ 8

Server Basics...................................................................................................... 8 2.1.1 General Hardware ....................................................................................... 8 2.1.1.1 Server Setup ............................................................................................ 8 2.1.1.2 Server Maintenance ................................................................................ 9 2.1.2 General Software ...................................................................................... 13 2.1.2.1 Anti-Virus ............................................................................................. 13 2.1.2.2 Backup .................................................................................................. 13 2.1.2.3 ORACLE............................................................................................... 13 2.1.2.4 Microsoft Office.................................................................................... 14

2.2

Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center (TFHRC) Server Specifics 14 2.2.1 Hardware ................................................................................................... 15 2.2.1.1 Server Setup .......................................................................................... 15 2.2.1.2 Server Maintenance .............................................................................. 15 2.2.2 Software .................................................................................................... 21 2.2.2.1 Anti-Virus ............................................................................................. 21 2.2.2.2 Backup .................................................................................................. 21 2.2.2.3 ORACLE............................................................................................... 21 2.2.2.4 Microsoft Office.................................................................................... 24

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx iii

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System 2.3

Operations Manual

Technical Support Services Contractor (TSSC) Server Specifics .............. 25 2.3.1 Hardware ................................................................................................... 25 2.3.1.1 Server Setup .......................................................................................... 25 2.3.1.2 Server Maintenance .............................................................................. 25 2.3.2 Software .................................................................................................... 30 2.3.2.1 Anti-Virus ............................................................................................. 30 2.3.2.2 Backup .................................................................................................. 30 2.3.2.3 ORACLE............................................................................................... 30 2.3.2.4 Microsoft Office.................................................................................... 33

2.4

Regional Server Specifics ............................................................................... 33 2.4.1 Hardware ................................................................................................... 34 2.4.1.1 Server Setup .......................................................................................... 34 2.4.1.2 Server Maintenance .............................................................................. 34 2.4.2 Software .................................................................................................... 38 2.4.2.1 Anti-Virus ............................................................................................. 38 2.4.2.2 Backup .................................................................................................. 38 2.4.2.3 ORACLE............................................................................................... 38 2.4.2.4 Microsoft Office.................................................................................... 41

Chapter 3. 3.1 3.2

Regional Information Management System (RIMS) Application ...... 42

Introduction ..................................................................................................... 42 Major RIMS Components .............................................................................. 42 3.2.1 3.2.2 3.2.3 Data Entry Forms ...................................................................................... 42 Electronic Data Loaders ............................................................................ 43 QC Programs ............................................................................................. 43 System Options Screen ............................................................................. 43 RIMS DBA Operations ............................................................................. 43

3.3

Minor RIMS Components.............................................................................. 43 3.3.1 3.3.2

3.4

RIMS Navigation ............................................................................................ 44 3.4.1 Menu Navigation ...................................................................................... 44 3.4.1.1 Example 1. Navigating to Inventory Entry Forms ................................ 44 3.4.2 Menu to Form Navigation ......................................................................... 45 3.4.3 Form to Menu, Form to Form Navigation ................................................ 46 3.4.4 Item Level Navigation .............................................................................. 46 3.4.5 Exiting a Form .......................................................................................... 47

3.5 4.1 4.2 4.3

Function Keys .................................................................................................. 47 Regional Operations ............................................................................... 48 Data Flow ......................................................................................................... 48 Collect Data ..................................................................................................... 50 Process Data .................................................................................................... 50
iv Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 4.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

4.3.1 Electronic Data.......................................................................................... 50 4.3.1.1 Backup Raw Data ................................................................................. 51 4.3.1.2 Review Data/Run Preprocessors ........................................................... 51 4.3.1.3 Archive Processed Data ........................................................................ 52 4.3.1.4 Filter Data into Database ...................................................................... 52 4.3.2 Sheet Data ................................................................................................. 53 4.3.2.1 Review Data Sheets .............................................................................. 53 4.3.2.2 Enter Data with RIMS Forms ............................................................... 53 4.4 Assign Construction Number (CN) to Data Records................................... 55 4.4.1 4.4.2 4.5 4.5.1 4.5.2 4.5.3 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.10 4.11 4.12 4.13 CN Process Notes ..................................................................................... 55 Using the CN Utilities ............................................................................... 56 QC Summary ............................................................................................ 57 Execute QC Programs ............................................................................... 57 Record Status Field ................................................................................... 57

Perform QC Checks ........................................................................................ 56

Review QC Output.......................................................................................... 57 Research Data Anomalies............................................................................... 58 Correct or Manually Upgrade Data .............................................................. 58 Run Record Counts......................................................................................... 59 Upload Data to PPDB ..................................................................................... 59 Scan Paper Data Sheets .................................................................................. 59 Populate AIMS Folders .................................................................................. 59 Apply Software Releases ................................................................................ 59 Backup Regional Database ....................................................................... 59 Run Release Batch File ............................................................................. 59 Review Output Files ................................................................................. 60 Update RIMS Programs ............................................................................ 60 Central Operations ................................................................................. 61

4.13.1 4.13.2 4.13.3 4.13.4 Chapter 5. 5.1

DBA Functions ................................................................................................ 61 5.1.1 Increase Tablespace Size .......................................................................... 61 5.1.2 Clone Database ......................................................................................... 62 5.1.2.1 Before Cloning for the First Time ........................................................ 62 5.1.2.2 Cloning.................................................................................................. 63 5.1.3 Interpret Oracle Error Messages ............................................................... 64 5.1.4 Stop/Start the Database ............................................................................. 65 5.1.5 Recover Database...................................................................................... 66 5.1.6 Change Schema ......................................................................................... 67 5.1.6.1 Add/Remove/Modify Field ................................................................... 67 5.1.6.2 Add/Remove Keys/Constraints ............................................................. 67

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx

v

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.1.6.3 Add/Remove Table ............................................................................... 67 5.1.7 User Administration .................................................................................. 68 5.1.7.1 Add/Remove Users ............................................................................... 68 5.1.7.2 Defining/Using Roles............................................................................ 69 5.1.7.3 Creating Public Synonyms .................................................................... 69 5.2 Software Performance Reports (SPRs) ......................................................... 70 5.2.1 Log New SPR ........................................................................................... 70 5.2.2 Update Existing SPR................................................................................. 72 5.2.3 Create Reports ........................................................................................... 72 5.2.3.1 SPR Form .............................................................................................. 72 5.2.3.2 SPR Reports .......................................................................................... 73 5.2.3.3 Software Change Notice (SCN) Report ................................................ 74 5.2.3.4 Report Query Updates........................................................................... 74 5.3 Software Releases ............................................................................................ 76 5.3.1 Develop PPDB Software Release ............................................................. 76 5.3.1.1 Update Software.................................................................................... 76 5.3.1.2 Create Update Scripts and Other Release Files .................................... 78 5.3.1.3 Identify CM Objects to Release (changed/created since last release) .. 78 5.3.1.4 Create Data Export Files ....................................................................... 78 5.3.1.5 Create Release Batch File(s) ................................................................. 78 5.3.1.6 Package Release .................................................................................... 79 5.3.1.7 Create Release Documents ................................................................... 80 5.3.1.8 Validate Release.................................................................................... 81 5.3.1.9 Test Release .......................................................................................... 81 5.3.2 Apply PPDB Software Release ................................................................. 81 5.3.3 Develop LTPP Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) Release ..................... 81 5.3.3.1 Create New LTAS Executable .............................................................. 82 5.3.3.2 Create Database Update Scripts ............................................................ 82 5.3.3.3 Create Release Batch File ..................................................................... 82 5.3.3.4 Create Release Documentation ............................................................. 82 5.3.4 Apply LTAS Software Release ................................................................. 82 5.4 Regional Data Uploads ................................................................................... 82 5.4.1 Confirm good backup of production database .......................................... 83 5.4.2 Create an Empty Upload Directory Structure ........................................... 83 5.4.3 Run record counts before data upload ...................................................... 83 5.4.4 Clone the IMSProd Database to IMSTest ................................................. 83 5.4.5 Verify Regional Media and Organize Uploaded Data .............................. 84 5.4.6 Review Selected Upload Files .................................................................. 84 5.4.7 Update Upload Processing Files ............................................................... 85 5.4.8 Process Upload.......................................................................................... 85 5.4.9 Run record counts after data upload ......................................................... 87 5.4.10 Additional Data Processing....................................................................... 87 5.4.10.1 Run CN Assign on all data................................................................ 87
IMSOpsManual_v2.docx vi Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.4.10.2 Run QC on SMP CP data .................................................................. 88 5.4.11 Correct Data Errors ................................................................................... 88 5.5 Central Data Loads ......................................................................................... 88 5.5.1 Computed Parameters ............................................................................... 89 5.5.1.1 Transverse Profile and Faulting CP Data.............................................. 89 5.5.1.2 TRF_MEPDG CP Data ......................................................................... 90 5.5.1.3 TRF_ESAL CP Data ............................................................................. 90 5.6 Standard Data Releases (SDRs) ..................................................................... 90 5.6.1 5.6.2 5.6.3 5.6.4 5.6.5 5.6.6 5.6.7 5.6.8 Appendix A. A.1 A.2 A.3 A.4 A.5 A.6 A.7 A.8 A.9 A.10 A.11 A.12 A.13 A.14 Update Data Dictionary and Table Dictionary ......................................... 90 Update SDR master tables ........................................................................ 91 Update SDR extraction program ............................................................... 92 Execute SDR extraction program ............................................................. 92 Review SDR databases for correct content ............................................... 93 Compress SDR databases ......................................................................... 93 Organize SDR Files into Volumes burn DVD media ............................... 94 Print and Burn DVD media....................................................................... 96 Reference Documents ....................................................................... A-1

PPDB User Guide .......................................................................................... A-1 QC Manual .................................................................................................... A-1 Accessing LTPP Data ................................................................................... A-1 LTPP Traffic Software Installation Guide ................................................. A-1 LTAS User Guide/Bookshelf ........................................................................ A-1 LTPP IMS Engineer Workguide ................................................................. A-1 HRD-LTPP Server Setup Document .......................................................... A-1 Regional Server Setup Document ................................................................ A-2 LTPP Server Upgrade to Oracle 9.2 ........................................................... A-2 LTPP Upgrade to Oracle 10g....................................................................... A-2 RIMS User Guide .......................................................................................... A-2 Source Code Inventory ................................................................................. A-2 SPR Database ................................................................................................ A-2 Directive GO-48 ............................................................................................ A-2 Sample QC Output Files .................................................................. B-1

Appendix B.

Level C QC Output ................................................................................................... B-1 Level D QC Output ................................................................................................... B-3 Level E QC Output ................................................................................................... B-5 Appendix C. Sample Regional Upload Instructions ............................................. C-1
vii Thursday, December 16, 2010

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx

LTPP Information Management System Appendix D. Appendix E. Appendix F. Appendix G. Appendix H. Appendix I. Appendix J.

Operations Manual

Sample Directive for IMS Software Release .................................. D-1 Sample Software Release Batch File ............................................... E-1 Release Checklist ................................................................................F-1 Sample Regional Backup Procedures ............................................. G-1 Sample Record Count Report .......................................................... H-1 Dell PE 2900 LCD Status Messages ................................................. I-1 Acronyms Used in this Document .................................................... J-1

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx

viii

Thursday, December 16, 2010

List of Figures
Figure 1. LTPP Information Management System (IMS) .................................................. 2 Figure 2. Major Database Components .............................................................................. 3 Figure 3. RIMS Application provides access to PPDB ...................................................... 4 Figure 4. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the front .............................................. 9 Figure 5. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 from the back ......................................................... 10 Figure 6. APC UPS ........................................................................................................... 10 Figure 7. Drive Status Indicators ...................................................................................... 16 Figure 8. Location of Redundant Power Supply Indicators .............................................. 18 Figure 9. Example search for OS updates ......................................................................... 20 Figure 10. Example search for Oracle update ................................................................... 22 Figure 11. Oracle Patches & Updates ­ Simple Search Window ..................................... 23 Figure 12. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 8559467 Download Window ................... 24 Figure 13. Hard-Drive Indicators ...................................................................................... 26 Figure 14. Location of Redundant Power Supply Indicators ............................................ 28 Figure 15. Example search for OS updates ....................................................................... 29 Figure 16. Example search for Oracle update ................................................................... 31 Figure 17. Oracle Patches & Updates - Simple Search Window ...................................... 32 Figure 18. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 7631956 Download Window ................... 33 Figure 19. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the front .......................................... 34 Figure 20. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the back .......................................... 35 Figure 21. APC UPS ......................................................................................................... 35 Figure 22. Dell OpenManage Array Manager .................................................................. 36 Figure 23. Dell Array Manager Hardware Configuration Window .................................. 37 Figure 24. Dell Array Manager Array Tree ...................................................................... 37 Figure 25. Example search for Oracle update ................................................................... 39 Figure 26. Oracle Patches & Updates - Simple Search Window ...................................... 40 Figure 27. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 7631956 Download Window ................... 41 Figure 28. RIMS Main Menu............................................................................................ 42 Figure 29. System Options Screen in RIMS ..................................................................... 43 Figure 30. DBA Utilities Available from RIMS ............................................................... 44 Figure 31. Data Entry/Edit Menu...................................................................................... 45 Figure 32. Screen List for INV Data Entry/Edit ............................................................... 45 Figure 33. Inventory 1 Data Entry Form .......................................................................... 46 Figure 34. Regional Data Flow Diagram .......................................................................... 49 Figure 35. Oracle Documentation Library ........................................................................ 61 Figure 36. Oracle Error Search ......................................................................................... 65 Figure 37. SPR Database Objects and List of Forms ....................................................... 71 Figure 38. SPR Auto form ................................................................................................ 72 Figure 39. List of Reports ................................................................................................. 73 Figure 40. Report design view .......................................................................................... 75 Figure 41. Report properties ............................................................................................. 75 Figure 42. Query Builder view ......................................................................................... 76 Figure 43. Empty Release Directory Structure ................................................................. 79
IMSOpsManual_v2.docx ix Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 44. ExtractStandardDataRelease.cpp before change ............................................. 92 Figure 45. ExtractStandardDataRelease.cpp after change ................................................ 92

List of Tables
Table 1. PPDB Data Modules and Submodules ................................................................. 4 Table 2. Hard-Drive Indicator Patterns for RAID ............................................................ 17 Table 3. Function of Redundant Power Supply Indicators ............................................... 17 Table 4. Hard-Drive Indicator Patterns for RAID ............................................................ 27 Table 5. Function of Redundant Power Supply Indicators ............................................... 27 Table 6. Filter, CN, and QC Programs and Chapters for each Data Module.................... 50

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx

x

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Introduction
This manual is intended to support server and database operations for the Central LTPP Pavement Performance Database (PPDB) and the LTPP Traffic Analysis Software Database (LTAS DB). Much of the information that pertains to the LTAS Database and Application exists in other documents and is referenced here to avoid duplication. See Appendices A.4 and A.5 for specific references. Software that may be run on the Central Server will be discussed in this manual, including the RIMS Application, which was originally developed for the regional offices to input and run checks on data collected by the LTPP Program. A list of software created in support of RIMS and LTAS operations can be found in the Source Code Inventory Document, listed in Appendix A.12. Some of these programs were utilities written to accomplish a task and were not intended for general distribution. However, the majority of the programs are part of the RIMS or LTAS Applications. Information for each server currently being used by the LTPP Program is in Chapter 2. The section formatting is parallel for each group of servers in order to make it easier to locate required information. Some of the parallel sections have minimal information and have been left in as placeholders. A discussion of regional operations is included in Chapter 3. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of regional activities, but merely an overview of the main objectives. A useful diagram showing the flow of data through regional processing is shown in Figure 37.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx xi

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 1. LTPP System Overview
1.1 LTPP Program
The LTPP program was established as part of the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP) in 1987 and has been managed by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) since 1992. LTPP was designed as a partnership with the States and Canadian Provinces. The LTPP program is a study of the performance of in-service pavement sections across the United States and Canada. These pavement sections have been constructed using highway agency specifications and contractors and have been subjected to real-life traffic loading. Pavement sections that are part of the LTPP program are categorized as General Pavement Studies (GPS) and/or Specific Pavement Studies (SPS). GPS consists of a series of studies on nearly 800 in-service pavement test sections throughout North America. SPS are intensive studies of specific variables involving new construction, maintenance treatments, and rehabilitation activities. Refer to the QC Manual, listed in Appendix A2, for a list of GPS and SPS experiments.

1.2 LTPP Data
The majority of LTPP data has been collected by four Regional Contracting Offices (RCOs). Each RCO is responsible for data collection in a region of North America. The RCOs coordinate with state and provincial highway agencies (SHAs) in their regions to collect many types of data including details of maintenance and rehabilitation activities, coring and sampling activities, collection of site-specific weather data, drainage and traffic data. RCOs also collect deflection (FWD), distress, friction, longitudinal profile and transverse profile data. Each regional office has its own database server and the software necessary to enter and validate the data. This software comprises the Regional Information Management System (RIMS) Application. See Section 1.4.1.3 and Chapter 3 for additional information on the RIMS Application.

1.3 LTPP Information Management System (IMS)
The LTPP IMS is comprised of all the information collected as part of the LTPP Program. This includes electronic data and data on paper datasheets, in addition to documents, raw data files, videos, meeting minutes, software, reports, products, and much more that is not easily captured in a relational database. The electronic data and data entered from paper forms are loaded, processed, and stored in the Pavement Performance Database (PPDB). The electronic media, paper data forms and other types of LTPP information are considered part of the Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS) (Figure 1). Therefore, the LTPP IMS is made up of two major components ­ the PPDB and the AIMS (see Figure 2). The PPDB and LTAS DB are relational Oracle databases that contain data elements that are easily organized into relational tables. The LTAS database is managed separately from the PPDB, so some information about the LTAS database and application are included in this document.
IMSOpsManual_v2.docx 1 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

This document provides information on operations related to the PPDB. References for the LTAS Database are included.

PPDB

Electronic Data
Paper Forms

AIMS
C Videos V

Pictures

Figure 1. LTPP Information Management System (IMS)

1.3.1 Central Database
The LTPP Database is maintained at a central location as part of the Technical Support Services Contract (TSSC). Changes and additions to the database schema and RIMS Application are developed at this central location and are subsequently distributed to the regional versions of the database. The data in the central database has typically been uploaded from the regional databases once or twice annually. Data that is provided by outside contractors and does not require regional review or coordination is usually loaded directly into the central database. This includes climate and computed parameter data. Public data releases are created from this central production database.

1.3.2 Regional Databases
The regional databases have the same structure as the central database, though they contain only the data that pertains to a particular region. For that reason, the data files

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

2

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

associated with the regional databases are smaller; they contain approximately one quarter of the data in the central database. Once regional data has gone through data review, loading, and the QC process, the data is exported with the Oracle export utility and sent on electronic media to the central site where it is imported with the Oracle import utility into the central database.

1.4 Major IMS Components
The two major IMS components are the Pavement Performance Database (PPDB and the Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS) (see Figure 2).

Major IMS Components

PPDB

AIMS

Figure 2. Major IMS Components

1.4.1 Pavement Performance Database (PPDB)
The PPDB is a large Oracle database that contains many types of pavement performance data including materials testing, monitoring, maintenance and rehabilitation. 1.4.1.1 Production PPDB In the fall of 2009, the production instance of the PPDB (IMSProd) moved to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Headquarters at the Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center (TFHRC) in McLean, VA. It is housed on a powerful Windows 2008 Server in an Oracle 10g database. 1.4.1.2 PPDB Development/Test Environment Both a development database instance (IMSDev) and a test database instance (IMSTest) are housed with the production database at TFHRC in McLean. These instances, or versions, of the database are used to develop and test updates to the production system. Updates are subsequently applied to the production instance.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1.4.1.3 RIMS Application The Regional Information Management System (RIMS) Application is made up of data entry forms, data loaders and Quality Checks (QC) programs (see Figure 3). This application is the user`s interface with the data in the regional databases. The user can enter, review, edit and delete data from the database with this application. See 0 for detailed information about the RIMS Application. In addition, a list of software created in support of RIMS and LTAS operations can be found in the Source Code Inventory Document, listed in Appendix A.12.

PPDB

Data Entry Forms

Data Loader Programs

Quality Check (QC) Programs

Figure 3. RIMS Application provides access to PPDB 1.4.1.4 PPDB Data Modules The PPDB contains approximately 12,000 data elements that are organized into nearly 550 tables. These tables are grouped into data modules by data type. For example, the Rehabilitation Module contains 54 tables that contain data about various rehabilitation events that have taken place on each section. Table 1 lists the modules and submodules that comprise the PPDB. With the exception of the tables in the Administration module, the first three letters of the table name (Table Prefix) identify the module to which a particular table belongs. For more detailed information about each module and the data it contains, refer to the LTPP Pavement Performance Database User Reference Guide (PPDBURG) listed in Appendix A.1. Table 1. PPDB Data Modules and Submodules Data Module Administration Table Prefix None Description This module contains tables that describe the structure of the database (LTPPDD, LTPPTD) and coded values used (CODES, CODETYPES, REGIONS). It also contains the master test section control table (EXPERIMENT_SECTION), the section
4 Thursday, December 16, 2010

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

LTPP Information Management System Data Module Table Prefix Description

Operations Manual

location table (SECTION_COORDINATES), the section layering table (SECTION_LAYER_STRUCTURE), a regional lookup table (REGIONS), and a table of general section comments (COMMENTS_GENERAL). Automated Weather Station Climate AWS This module contains data collected by the LTPP program from automated weather stations installed on some SPS projects. This module contains data collected from offsite weather stations that are used to compute a simulated virtual weather station for LTPP test sections or project sites. Data in this module are updated at 5-year intervals and was last updated in 2008 with data through 2006. This module contains dynamic load response instrumentation data from SPS test sections located in North Carolina and Ohio. This module contains Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) measurements performed on a subset of LTPP sections which provide an estimate of layer thickness variations within the monitoring portion of the test section. This module contains inventory information for all GPS test sections and for SPS sections originally classified in maintenance and rehabilitation experiments. This module contains information on maintenance-type treatments reported by a highway agency that were applied to a test section. This module contains pavement performance monitoring data and it is the largest module in the database. It is divided into submodules by data type: This submodule contains data from FWD tests. This submodule contains distress survey data from both manual and film-based (PADIAS) surveys.

CLM

Dynamic Load Response Ground Penetrating Radar

DLR

GPR

Inventory

INV

Maintenance

MNT

Monitoring

MON

Deflection Distress

MON_DEFL MON_DIS

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

5

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Data Module Drainage Friction Table Prefix MON_DRAIN MON_FRICTION Description

Operations Manual

This submodule contains information on the inspection of drainage features. This submodule contains friction measurements taken by participating highway agencies. This submodule contains longitudinal profile data collected by an automated profiler or by manual dipstick measurements. This submodule contains rutting data measured using a 1.2-m (4-ft) straightedge. These data tables are superseded by the rutting indices located within the Transverse Profile module. (Note: Straightedge rut measurements were not taken on all test sections.) This submodule contains transverse profile data and computed transverse profile distortion indices (rut depth) from manual dipstick measurements or the optical Pavement Distress Analysis System (PADIAS) method. Cross slope data is included in this submodule. This module contains information on rehabilitation treatments. This module contains SMP-specific data, such as the onsite air temperature and precipitation data, subsurface temperature and moisture content data, and frost-related measurements. This module contains SPS-specific general and construction information. This module contains traffic load, classification, and volume data. This module contains field and laboratory materials testing data. A key table in this module is TST_L05B, which contains layer thickness and composition information based on measurements from the test section site.

Profile

MON_PROFILE

Rut

MON_RUT

Transverse Profile

MON_T_PROF

Rehabilitation Seasonal Monitoring Program Specific Pavement Studies Traffic Test

RHB SMP

SPS

TRF TST

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

6

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1.4.2 LTPP Traffic Analysis Database (LTASDB)
The LTAS Database is an Oracle database that contains summary traffic information for each LTPP site. An overview of LTASDB and support documents is included here. 1.4.2.1 Production LTASDB The production instance of the LTASDB (TRFProd) also resides at the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Headquarters at the Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center (TFHRC) in McLean, VA. It is housed on the same Windows 2008 Server as the PPDB, in an Oracle 10g database. 1.4.2.2 LTASDB Development Environment Both a development database instance (TRFDev) and a test database instance (TRFTest) are housed with the production database at TFHRC in McLean. The test instance is used to test database and software updates before they are sent to the regional offices. Updates are subsequently applied to the production instance. 1.4.2.3 LTPP Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) Application The LTAS Application is the user`s interface to the LTASDB. The raw hourly and vehicle traffic data goes through automated checks as it is loaded and summarized to daily data records. Then, the daily records go through another series of automated checks and are summarized to monthly records. Finally, the monthly records are checked and summarized to annual records. The LTAS application provides tools to analyze the data including running the QC process, purging data, graphing data sets and reporting. The LTAS Application is documented in the following volumes of the LTPP Traffic Software Materials Reference: Volume 1 ­ LTAS Users` Guide Volume 2 ­ LTAS Graphics Specifications Volume 3 ­ LTAS Oracle Table Specifications, Codes and QC Volume 4 ­ LTAS Functional Specifications Volume 5 ­ LTAS Program Design Specifications The LTAS Users` Guide and information on the other LTAS volumes are listed in Appendix A.5. In addition, a list of software created in support of RIMS and LTAS operations can be found in the Source Code Inventory, listed in Appendix A.12.

1.4.3 Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS)
The AIMS is a collection of information not contained in the PPDB. It includes items like raw profile and deflection data, distress photographs and images, reference documents, experiment guidelines, test protocols, etc. LTPP began to catalogue and archive data (using the AIMS metadata) with the intent to provide the public with information about the availability of the AIMS online so that they may request this data through the LTPP Customer Support Services Center. AIMS items combined with the PPDB are vital to the program's mission because they represent the LTPP legacy.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 7 Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 2. LTPP Database Servers
The LTPP Program has provided servers and workstations to key contracts at various points over the last 20 years. Due to the way that servers have been upgraded, the program has a variety of distinct hardware and software environments. This situation has evolved primarily due to funding limitations. The regions possess the oldest server environments. These Dell PowerEdge 4400 servers were purchased in September of 2001 and are running Windows Server 2000. They are long out of warranty. The TSSC has one of these older servers, but is also running a newer Dell 2900 server. This server was acquired in March of 2007 and is running Windows Server 2003. The newest server was purchased in April of 2009 and is located at FHWA headquarters at TFHRC in McLean, VA. It is a Dell 2900 running Windows Server 2008. This server became the new production server when operations were centralized at FHWA in the fall of 2009.

2.1 Server Basics
This section provides general information about server setup, maintenance, and software. More specific information regarding the different servers being utilized at different physical locations is in the following sections.

2.1.1 General Hardware
The various LTPP servers do share some general characteristics. For one, the hard drives on each server are joined together in a single RAID 5 array. On the oldest and the newest LTPP servers, the hard drives are partitioned into volumes and these volumes are set aside for different purposes. All of the servers have Microsoft Windows Server installed on the C: volume. The oldest servers at the regions have the Oracle database files stored on the D: volume. The TSSC server has only a single partition, and the databases are stored on the C: volume. The TFHRC server has the most partitions and the Oracle database files are stored on the G: volume. The servers are also designed to be somewhat fault tolerant. They each feature multiple power supplies and hot swappable hard drives. While the uptime requirements of the LTPP servers are not that high, this redundancy helps to keep the systems running while waiting on parts to arrive. On the down side, without someone checking the system for faults on a regular basis, the servers can keep running for a long time with failed parts. This could lead to a loss of data if, for example, one hard drive has already failed and another fails before the first failure is repaired. 2.1.1.1 Server Setup All of the servers have gone through a similar setup process. First, the operating system and various utilities such as the backup software were installed. Then the Oracle database
IMSOpsManual_v2.docx 8 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

software was installed and the database instances created. Minimal end user software has been installed on the servers. 2.1.1.2 Server Maintenance The following guidelines are provided to assist in checking the PPDB servers for problems before they result in data loss. It is recommended that these checks be performed on a weekly basis, concurrent with the server backup process. 2.1.1.2.1 Physical Inspection of Server Look at the front of the server; check that the lights on each disk in the array are green. 1 Amber or red lights indicate a problem with the disk.

Figure 4. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the front

1

Images taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm and DellTM PowerEdgeTM 2900 Systems Hardware Owner's Manual at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

9

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Look at the rear of the server, check that the fans are rotating and that air is being blown out. 2

Check for airflow here

Figure 5. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 from the back Looking at the front of the UPS, check that the UPS indicates a full charge and that it is not overloaded.3 Not all lit All lit

Figure 6. APC UPS

2

Image taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm 3 Images taken from APC User`s Guide at http://sturgeon.apcc.com/techref.nsf/partnum/990 7042A/$FILE/D7042A2.pdf

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

10

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.1.1.2.2 Physical Inspection of Storage Units Look at the front of the storage units; check that the power light (#2 in Figure 7) is green and that the enclosure status light (#3 in Figure 7) is a steady blue. 4 Flashing blue, flashing amber or steady amber lights require additional actions.

Figure 7. DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Storage Enclosure Bezel (front) Look at the rear of the storage units and verify that air is coming through the fans (#3 in Figure 8)5.

Figure 8. DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Storage Enclosure (rear)

4

Image taken from DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Storage Enclosure Hardware Owner`s Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/md1000/en/HOM/index.htm. 5 Image taken from DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Storage Enclosure Hardware Owner`s Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/md1000/en/HOM/index.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

11

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

If further investigation is required after checking the front bezel on either unit, remove the bezel by pushing in on the locks in the middle of the bezel on both sides (just behind #3 in Figure 7). The enclosure status light at #1 uses the same colors and coding as the enclosure status light visible on the bezel. 6 The next item to check will be the drive carrier status LEDs (#3) on each drive. The LED at #2 is an activity LED that lights when a drive is accessed. The codes for the drive carrier status LEDs are in Table 2.

Figure 9. DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 from behind bezel Table 2 DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Drive Carrier Status LED conditions LED Off Steady green Green flashing (250 ms) Green flashing On 400 ms Off 100 ms Amber flashing (125 ms) Green/amber flashing Green On 500 ms Amber On 500 ms Off 1000 ms Green /amber flashing Green On 3000 ms Off 3000 ms Amber On 3000 ms Off 3000 ms
6

Description Slot empty; drive not yet discovered by server, or an unsupported drive is present Drive is online Drive is being identified or is being prepared for removal Drive rebuilding

Drive failed Predicted failure reported by drive

Drive being spun down by user request or other nonfailure condition

Image taken from DellTM PowerVaultTM MD1000 Storage Enclosure Hardware Owner`s Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/md1000/en/HOM/index.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

12

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.1.1.2.3 Software Inspection Software inspection is specific to each server. Refer to specific server sections for this information. 2.1.1.2.4 Operating System Updates If the server is connected to the Internet, use the Windows Update service to keep the operating system current on patches. If not connected to the Internet, periodically download the latest patches from the Microsoft web site to a transportable medium and manually apply the latest patches to the server.

2.1.2 General Software
By default, very little software beyond the bare essentials has been loaded onto the servers. Some of the servers have had Microsoft Office loaded in order to be able to use Microsoft Access to process standard data releases. 2.1.2.1 Anti-Virus Various antivirus products are in use. There is not a standard among the LTPP Contractors and the FHWA. 2.1.2.2 Backup Backup hardware and software vary by the age of the servers. The oldest of the servers use an old version of ArcServe and DLT IV tapes for backups. The TSSC server uses Symantec Backup Exec and LTO-2 tapes. The TFHRC server, which is the newest, uses Symantec Backup Exec 12 and RD1000 500GB Disk cartridges for backups. While the backup software and devices vary, all servers are backed up using a similar backup strategy - weekly backups of the Oracle database to removable media. Due to the fact that most information entered into the database comes on either paper forms or electronic data sets, the risk of data loss is low. Therefore, a weekly backup to removable media has been chosen as the proper balance between risk and cost. Incremental backup policies vary by location. 2.1.2.3 ORACLE Oracle was chosen early in the development of the IMS. At the time, it was one of the only tools which could handle large databases across multiple hardware platforms. Oracle also had a forms and reports package for application development which was able to run on multiple platforms without recoding. Due to the distributed nature of the LTPP program, Oracle software updates have generally only been applied during major system upgrades. This was agreed upon by the LTPP regional and TSSC contractors as the best balance between the risk of applying the updates and the risk of an external attack. The regional contractors have their servers on their corporate networks which are protected from the outside by firewalls; the TSSC server, which houses a central repository, is on an isolated network with access limited to

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

13

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

TSSC personnel in Oak Ridge, TN; the TFHRC server is also on an isolated network with access limited to FHWA personnel. 2.1.2.3.1 Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) All of the servers are currently running the Oracle 10.2 RDBMS. The Regional and TSSC servers are running at the Oracle 10.2.0.3 patch level. Since Windows Server 2008 requires a minimum of Oracle 10.2.0.4, the TFHRC server is running at the Oracle 10.2.0.4 patch level. Given the limited access to these servers, it has been decided that it is not necessary to keep up with the latest patches. So, the Oracle software which is deployed is rarely patched. 2.1.2.3.2 Database Tools
Enterprise Manager

This is Oracle software that provides a Graphical User Interface (GUI) with which to view and manage database objects (tables, views, indices, tablespaces, users, etc.). This software is installed on the server when the Oracle RDBMS is installed and is installed on the workstation when the Oracle Client is installed.
SQLPLUS Worksheet

The SQLPlus Worksheet is a client tool that allows the user to type sqlplus commands in an input window and see results in an output window. Commands are executed by pressing F5 or CTRL-Enter. Previous commands can be accessed by pressing CTRL-p and next commands by pressing CTRL-n. Other shortcuts are available in this tool.
Command Line

SQLPlus and Oracle utilities can be executed from a DOS window. For example, a sqlplus file (.sql) can be executed with the following syntax:
sqlplus connectstring @sqlfile.sql

The Oracle data export command can be executed as follows:
exp connectstring parameters.par

where the parameters.par file has all input parameters. The same list of parameters can be included on the command line. For help with the export command, type: exp help=y 2.1.2.4 Microsoft Office Office has purposely been loaded onto some of the LTPP servers in order to process data releases efficiently. Since data releases are provided in Microsoft Access format, it is very important to have Office tools available.

2.2 Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center (TFHRC) Server Specifics
The TFHRC server is the newest and most powerful server owned by the LTPP program. It was purchased with the vision to be a central repository located at a FHWA facility instead of contractor facilities.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 14 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.2.1 Hardware
The TFHRC server is a Dell PowerEdge 2900 with two 3 GHz Xenon E5450 quad-core processors. This server also has 32 GB of RAM, an internal RAID 5 Array consisting of eight 7,200 RPM 1-TB SATA disks and an external RAID 5 Array consisting of thirty 5,400 RPM 2-TB SATA disks. It is supplemented by two fully populated Dell PowerVault MD1000 storage units (50TB). For backups, it has a PowerVault RD1000 which accepts 1-TB hard disk cartridges. All of this is protected by a 2200 VA UPS. 2.2.1.1 Server Setup The server setup is detailed in HRD-LTPPServerSetup200906-1.doc (see Appendix A.7). This document describes in detail how the RAID Array, operating system and Oracle databases were configured. The highlights of the server setup are as follows: The server was delivered with the Windows Server 2008 Operating System. This was then configured to comply with NIST 800-53 Revision 2 Annex 1 since this is a low impact system. The server was made the DHCP and DNS server for the private LAN to which it is attached. There is no domain controller on this network. Oracle 10g 10.2.0.4, which is the first version that handles 64 bit databases under Windows Server 2008, was installed on the server. Once Oracle was installed, the production database instances (IMSProd and TRFProd) were created. Once the production instances were created, two test instances (IMSTest, TRFTest) and two development instances (IMSDev, TRFDev) were cloned. 2.2.1.2 Server Maintenance 2.2.1.2.1 Physical Inspection The Hard Drives, Power Supplies, and the messages on the LCD panel should be checked once a week. A convenient time to perform this inspection would be during backups since someone has to be physically at the server to mount the backup cartridge. The following sections contain excerpts from the Dell PowerEdge 2900 Hardware Owner`s Manual located at https://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm and the Dell PowerVault MD 1000 Hardware Owner`s Manual located at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/md1000/en/HOM/index.htm. The basic procedure is to look for lights that are not green. Each hard drive should have a green drive-status indicator. Each power supply should have a green power supply status and a green AC status indicator. And as a general check, the LCD panel should be lit with a blue light. If anything goes wrong on the system, the LCD panel will have an amber light which means further action is necessary.
Hard Drive Inspection

The hard-drive carriers have two indicators -- the drive-status indicator and the driveactivity indicator7 (Figure 10). In RAID configurations, the drive-status indicator lights
7

Images taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm and DellTM PowerEdgeTM

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

15

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

up to indicate the status of the drive. In non-RAID configurations, only the drive-activity indicator lights up; the drive-status indicator is off.

1 drive-status indicator (green and amber)

2 green drive-activity indicator

Figure 10. Drive Status Indicators Table 3 lists the drive indicator patterns for RAID hard drives. Different patterns are displayed as drive events occur in the system. For example, if a hard drive fails, the "drive failed" pattern appears. After the drive is selected for removal, the "drive being prepared for removal" pattern appears, followed by the "drive ready for insertion or removal" pattern. After the replacement drive is installed, the "drive being prepared for operation" pattern appears, followed by the "drive online" pattern.

NOTE: For non-RAID configurations, only the drive-activity indicator is active. The drive-status indicator is off.

2900 Systems Hardware Owner's Manual at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

16

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Table 3. Hard-Drive Indicator Patterns for RAID Condition Identify drive/preparing for removal Drive ready for insertion or removal Drive predicted failure Drive failed Drive rebuilding Drive online Rebuild aborted Drive-Status Indicator Pattern Blinks green two times per second Off Blinks green, amber, and off. Blinks amber four times per second. Blinks green slowly. Steady green. Blinks green three seconds, amber three seconds, and off six seconds.

Power Supply Inspection

The power button on the front panel controls the power input to the system's power supplies. The power indicator lights green when the system is on. The indicators on the optional redundant power supplies show whether power is present or whether a power fault has occurred8 (see Table 4 and Figure 11). Table 4. Function of Redundant Power Supply Indicators Indicator Power supply status Function Green indicates that the power supply is operational.

Power supply fault Amber indicates a problem with the power supply. AC line status Green indicates that a valid AC source is connected to the power supply.

8

Images taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm and DellTM PowerEdgeTM 2900 Systems Hardware Owner's Manual at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

17

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1

power supply status

2

power supply fault

3

AC line status

Figure 11. Location of Redundant Power Supply Indicators
LCD Status Messages

The system's control panel LCD provides status messages to signify when the system is operating correctly or when the system needs attention. The LCD lights blue to indicate a normal operating condition and lights amber to indicate an error condition. The LCD scrolls a message that includes a status code followed by descriptive text. Appendix I lists the LCD status messages that can occur and the probable cause for each message. The LCD messages refer to events recorded in the system event log (SEL). For information on the SEL and configuring system management settings, see the systems management software documentation. CAUTION: Many repairs may only be done by a certified service technician. You should only perform troubleshooting and simple repairs as authorized in your product documentation, or as directed by the online or telephone service and support team. Damage due to servicing that is not authorized by Dell is not covered by your warranty. Read and follow the safety instructions that came with the product.

NOTE: If your system fails to boot, press the System ID button for at least five seconds until an error code appears on the LCD. Record the code, then see Getting Help.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

18

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.2.1.2.2 Software Inspection Software inspection can be accomplished by using the Dell Remote Access Card (DRAC). Since the physical inspection outlined in the previous section is sufficient, there is really no need to perform an inspection using the DRAC. All of the relevant messages will appear on the LCD panel. 2.2.1.2.3 Operating System Updates Operating system updates are applied as individual patches downloaded from Microsoft on a separate computer since internet access is not available from the server. These patches are located by going to http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/current.aspx and performing a Microsoft Security Bulletin Search. We are interested in searching for all bulletins for Windows Server 2008 x64 SP2. An example search is shown below, in Figure 12.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

19

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 12. Example search for OS updates Each patch that has not been applied is downloaded to a flash drive or other portable media. The media containing the patches is then mounted on the server and the patches are applied while logged in as an administrator.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

20

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.2.2 Software
The following is a list of key software packages that are loaded on the LTPP servers to facilitate server operations. 2.2.2.1 Anti-Virus Symantec Endpoint Protection 11.0.2000.1567 is being used on the server at TFHRC. This is the FHWA supported antivirus program. 2.2.2.2 Backup Symantec Backup Exec 12.5 is being used to perform backups to RD1000 disk cartridges. 2.2.2.3 ORACLE The Oracle Database server version 10.2.0.4 along with the administrative tools is installed on this server to house the PPDB and LTAS DB. As operations are centralized, the cost/benefit ratio of applying the updates will change. The centralized server will have a greater attack surface. This will make the updates more valuable. At the same time, by maintaining only a single server, the potential for a deployment problem is minimized. Oracle patches can be downloaded from My Oracle Support formerly Metalink. The general procedure is to perform a knowledge base search for the update that you are interested in. For example, you could search for Critical Patch Update July 2009 Oracle Products. In the Patch Availability document, search for the table listing the critical patch update availability for Oracle Database. Then find the patch number for version 10.2.0.4 on Windows x86-64. In the example below, this is patch 8559467 (see Figure 13).

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

21

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 13. Example search for Oracle update

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

22

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

After locating the patch number, you proceed to the Patches & Updates tab and select a simple search. Enter the patch number that you found in the table and hit Go (see Figure 14).

Figure 14. Oracle Patches & Updates ­ Simple Search Window That will bring you to the actual download screen (see Figure 15).

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

23

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 15. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 8559467 Download Window You should be sure to view the readme file. It will tell you which version of OPatch is required to install this patch and other prerequisites. It will also give you step by step instructions for installing the patch. 2.2.2.4 Microsoft Office Microsoft Office has been installed on this server primarily to provide Microsoft Access for SDR processing. It is possible to update this software using the same procedure outlined in the preceding Operating System Updates section. Just choose Microsoft Access as the product.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

24

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.3 Technical Support Services Contractor (TSSC) Server Specifics
The TSSC server is a central repository for PPDB data as well as the development environment for IMS and Traffic Analysis software. It was purchased as an upgrade to a Dell PowerEdge 4400 server like the regions are using. While the current server does not mirror the regions physically, or even at the operating system level, it has still proved to be useful in diagnosing problems that have occurred at the regions. This is mainly because the Oracle environment is similar to the regions.

2.3.1 Hardware
The TSSC server is a Dell PowerEdge 2900 with two 1.86 GHz Xenon 5150 dual-core processors. This server also has 2 GB of RAM and a RAID 5 array consisting of seven 10,000 RPM 146 GB SAS disks. For backups, it has an internal LTO2 tape drive which uses LTO-2 tapes capable of holding 200GB uncompressed. All of this is protected by a 2200 VA UPS. 2.3.1.1 Server Setup The instructions for the upgrade from Oracle 9.2 to Oracle 10.2 were used as the basic instructions for setting up this server. Those instructions are documented in LTPP Upgrade to Oracle 10g_ppdb_trf.doc referenced in Appendix A.10. While the steps about removal of Oracle 9.2 were skipped, the installation of the Oracle 10g server and the initial creation of the instances were followed. After the production instances were created, they were cloned to test and development instances. All of the files required for daily operations, such as the PVCS repository, were then copied from the PowerEdge 4400 to this machine. Since the TSSC server has only one volume (C:), the layout of the database differs slightly from the regional servers who have two volumes (C: and D:) The database resides on D: volume in the regions and on the C: volume at the TSSC. The highlights of the server setup are as follows. The server in Oak Ridge, TN, came with Windows 2003 Server Operating System Oracle 10g (10.2.0.3) was installed on the server The production PPDB instance (IMSProd) was created on the server, along with a non-production instance of the Traffic Analysis Database (TRFProd) Test (IMSTest, TRFTest) and Development (IMSDev) instances were cloned Other working storage was copied from the old server 2.3.1.2 Server Maintenance 2.3.1.2.1 Physical Inspection
Hard Drive Inspection

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

25

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

The hard-drive carriers have two indicators--the drive-status indicator and the driveactivity indicator 9(see Figure 16). In RAID configurations, the drive-status indicator lights up to indicate the status of the drive. In non-RAID configurations, only the driveactivity indicator lights up; the drive-status indicator is off.

1 drive-status indicator (green and amber)

2 green drive-activity indicator

Figure 16. Hard-Drive Indicators Table 5 lists the drive indicator patterns for RAID hard drives. Different patterns are displayed as drive events occur in the system. For example, if a hard drive fails, the "drive failed" pattern appears. After the drive is selected for removal, the "drive being prepared for removal" pattern appears, followed by the "drive ready for insertion or removal" pattern. After the replacement drive is installed, the "drive being prepared for operation" pattern appears, followed by the "drive online" pattern. NOTE: For non-RAID configurations, only the drive-activity indicator is active. The drive-status indicator is off.

9

Images taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm and DellTM PowerEdgeTM 2900 Systems Hardware Owner's Manual at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

26

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Table 5. Hard-Drive Indicator Patterns for RAID Condition Identify drive/preparing for removal Drive ready for insertion or removal Drive predicted failure Drive failed Drive rebuilding Drive online Rebuild aborted Drive-Status Indicator Pattern Blinks green two times per second Off Blinks green, amber, and off. Blinks amber four times per second. Blinks green slowly. Steady green. Blinks green three seconds, amber three seconds, and off six seconds.

Power Supply Inspection

The power button on the front panel controls the power input to the system's power supplies. The power indicator lights green when the system is on. The indicators on the optional redundant power supplies show whether power is present or whether a power fault has occurred10 (see Table 6 and Figure 17). Table 6. Function of Redundant Power Supply Indicators Indicator Power supply status Function Green indicates that the power supply is operational.

Power supply fault Amber indicates a problem with the power supply. AC line status Green indicates that a valid AC source is connected to the power supply.

10

Images taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm and DellTM PowerEdgeTM 2900 Systems Hardware Owner's Manual at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe2900/en/hom/html/about.htm.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

27

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1

power supply status

2

power supply fault

3

AC line status

Figure 17. Location of Redundant Power Supply Indicators
LCD Status Messages

The system's control panel LCD provides status messages to signify when the system is operating correctly or when the system needs attention. The LCD lights blue to indicate a normal operating condition and lights amber to indicate an error condition. The LCD scrolls a message that includes a status code followed by descriptive text. Appendix I lists the LCD status messages that can occur and the probable cause for each message. The LCD messages refer to events recorded in the system event log (SEL). For information on the SEL and configuring system management settings, see the systems management software documentation. CAUTION: Many repairs may only be done by a certified service technician. You should only perform troubleshooting and simple repairs as authorized in your product documentation, or as directed by the online or telephone service and support team. Damage due to servicing that is not authorized by Dell is not covered by your warranty. Read and follow the safety instructions that came with the product. NOTE: If your system fails to boot, press the System ID button for at least five seconds until an error code appears on the LCD. Record the code, then see Getting Help.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

28

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.3.1.2.2 Software Inspection Since the physical inspection outlined in the previous section is sufficient, there is really no need to perform any other inspection. All of the relevant messages will appear on the LCD panel. 2.3.1.2.3 Operating System Updates Operating system updates are applied as individual patches downloaded from Microsoft on a separate computer since internet access is not available from the server. These patches are located by going to http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/current.aspx and performing a Microsoft Security Bulletin Search. We are interested in searching for all bulletins for Windows Server 2003 SP2. An example search is shown in Figure 18.

Figure 18. Example search for OS updates
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 29 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Each patch that has not been applied is downloaded to a flash drive or other portable media. The media containing the patches is then mounted on the server and the patches are applied while logged in as an administrator.

2.3.2 Software
The following is a list of software packages that are loaded on most of the LTPP servers. 2.3.2.1 Anti-Virus Virus scans are not currently being performed on the TSSC server. The TSSC server is on an isolated network with no access to the corporate network or internet. Running an anti-virus package on this system would provide little benefit. 2.3.2.2 Backup Symantec Backup Exec 11d is being used to backup up to LTO-2 tapes. 2.3.2.3 ORACLE The Oracle Database Server version 10.2.0.3 along with the administrative tools is installed on this server to house the PPDB and LTAS DB. Oracle patches can be downloaded from My Oracle Support formerly Metalink. The general procedure is to perform a knowledge base search for the update that you are interested in. For example, you could search for Critical Patch Update (CPU) July 2009 Oracle Products. In the Patch Availability document, search for the table listing the critical patch update availability for Oracle Database. Then find the patch number for version 10.2.0.3 on Windows 32-Bit. In the example below (Figure 19), you will notice that the patch is listed as N/A. This is because support for 10.2.0.3 ended on February 22, 2009. If you go back to the January 2009 Critical Patch Update, you will see that patch 7631965 is the last CPU available.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

30

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 19. Example search for Oracle update

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

31

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

After locating the patch number, you proceed to the Patches & Updates tab and select a simple search. Enter the patch number that you found in the table and hit Go (see Figure 20).

Figure 20. Oracle Patches & Updates - Simple Search Window That will bring you to the actual download screen (Figure 21).

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

32

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 21. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 7631956 Download Window You should be sure to view the readme file. It will tell you which version of OPatch is required to install this patch and other prerequisites. It will also give you step by step instructions for installing the patch. 2.3.2.4 Microsoft Office Microsoft Office has been installed on this server primarily to provide Microsoft Access for SDR processing. It is possible to update this software using the same procedure outlined in the preceding Operating System Updates section. Just choose Microsoft Access as the product.

2.4 Regional Server Specifics
The Regional servers are deployed in geographically dispersed regions of the United States and contain information collected in that particular region. These databases are combined to form the central database at the TSSC. The Regional servers support the data collection and QC components of the regional contractors.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

33

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.4.1 Hardware
These Dell PowerEdge 4400 servers are the oldest servers in production; they have two 1 GHz Pentium III single-core processors. These servers also have 1 GB of RAM and a RAID 5 array consisting of five 36 GB disks with a sixth 36 GB disk functioning as a hot spare. For backups, they have an internal DLT IV tape drive which uses DLT IV tapes capable of holding 40 GB uncompressed. All of this is protected by a 1400 VA UPS. 2.4.1.1 Server Setup The initial server setup is documented in LTPP Server Config Ins_20020401.doc (see Appendix A.8). These instructions include installing the operating system and Oracle 9.0.1.1. Later, Oracle was upgraded to 9.2.0.3 using the instructions in Upgrade Oracle 9.0.1.1 to 9.2.0.3b.doc (see Appendix A.9). And finally, Oracle was upgraded to 10.2.0.3 using the instructions in LTPP Upgrade to Oracle 10g_ppdb_trf.doc (see Appendix A.10). 2.4.1.2 Server Maintenance 2.4.1.2.1 Physical Inspection Look at the front lower half of the server; check that the lights on each disk in the array are green. 11 (Figure 22) Green light here No light here

Figure 22. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the front

11

Image taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

34

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Look at the rear of the server, check that the fans are rotating and that air is being blown out. 12 (Figure 23)

Check for airflow here

Figure 23. DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Server, from the back Looking at the front of the UPS, check that the UPS indicates a full charge and that it is not overloaded.13 (See Figure 24) Not all lit All lit

Figure 24. APC UPS

12

Image taken from DellTM PowerEdgeTM 4400 Systems User's Guide at http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/pe4400/en/ug/intro.htm 13 Images taken from APC User`s Guide at http://sturgeon.apcc.com/techref.nsf/partnum/990 7042A/$FILE/D7042A2.pdf

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

35

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.4.1.2.2 Software Inspection Check the system event log using the event log viewer from the Windows control panel`s administrative tools for messages that could indicate an impending problem. Use the Dell Array Manager to make sure that all drives, including the hot spare, are online. o Locate the Dell Array Manager under Start/Programs/Dell OpenManage Applications/Array Manager/Array Manager Console. o The Array Manager Quick Access Window comes up on top, and gives you the option to view the disk configuration and status (see Figure 25). o Click View Configuration to see the View Hardware Configuration Window. Check the Status column for each disk (Figure 26).

Click Here

Figure 25. Dell OpenManage Array Manager

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

36

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 26. Dell Array Manager Hardware Configuration Window o If you prefer to use the console, close the Quick Access Window and expand the Array tree, as shown in Figure 27, to see the Graphical Layout of the Backplane. o Check the Status column for each disk.

Figure 27. Dell Array Manager Array Tree

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

37

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2.4.1.2.3 Operating System Updates The regional servers are connected to the contractor`s corporate network which also has a gateway to either the internet or a Windows Update Server. This allows the Windows Server 2000 automatic update feature to function.

2.4.2 Software
The following is a list of software packages that are loaded on most of the LTPP servers. 2.4.2.1 Anti-Virus Since the regional servers are connected to corporate networks, they are running antivirus software provided by the contractor. This keeps the servers in compliance with the contractor`s IT policy as well as protecting the server. 2.4.2.2 Backup The regions are using an old version of ARCServe to back up their servers. This software has not been upgraded since it was purchased and still performs well for what we require. For more details about the regional backup procedure, see Section 4.13.1 2.4.2.3 ORACLE The Oracle Database Server version 10.2.0.3 along with the administrative tools is installed on these servers to house the PPDB and LTAS DB. Oracle patches can be downloaded from My Oracle Support formerly Metalink. The general procedure is to perform a knowledge base search for the update that you are interested in. For example, you could search for Critical Patch Update July 2009 Oracle Products. In the Patch Availability document, search for the table listing the critical patch update availability for Oracle Database. Then find the patch number for version 10.2.0.3 on Windows 32-Bit. In the example below (Figure 28), you will notice that the patch is listed as N/A. This is because support for 10.2.0.3 ended on February 22, 2009. If you go back to the January 2009 Critical Patch Update, you will see that patch 7631965 is the last CPU available.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

38

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 28. Example search for Oracle update

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

39

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

After locating the patch number, you proceed to the Patches & Updates tab and select a simple search. Enter the patch number that you found in the table and hit Go (Figure 29).

Figure 29. Oracle Patches & Updates - Simple Search Window That will bring you to the actual download screen (Figure 30).

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

40

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 30. Oracle Patches & Updates - Patch 7631956 Download Window You should be sure to view the readme file. It will tell you which version of OPatch is required to install this patch and other prerequisites. It will also give you step by step instructions for installing the patch. 2.4.2.4 Microsoft Office The regional offices may or may not have loaded Microsoft Office tools onto their LTPP servers. Since they are not producing data releases, Office tools are not required for this purpose.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

41

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 3. Regional Information Management System (RIMS) Application
3.1 Introduction
The Regional Information Management System or RIMS Application is an application intended to allow data entry and processing through a series of menus and screens. A RIMS Users Guide was published in July of 2004 and is referenced in Appendix A.11. In addition, a list of software created in support of RIMS and LTAS operations can be found in the Source Code Inventory Document, listed in Appendix A.12.

3.2 Major RIMS Components
The RIMS Application is made up of 3 major components and several minor components. The major components are data entry screens or forms (for entering data recorded on paper forms), filter programs or data loaders (for loading electronic data), and quality checks (QC) programs. The QC programs are not accessible from the RIMS application; they are executed in a DOS session from the command line. Data entry forms and filter programs are accessible from the Main Menu in RIMS (see Figure 31, items 1 and 4), however, filter programs can also be executed from the command line. The Main Menu is displayed when the user dismisses the Introductory Screen by pressing the <Enter> key.

Figure 31. RIMS Main Menu

3.2.1 Data Entry Forms
Data entry forms are programmed and executed in Oracle Forms and are used to access the LTPP data in the PPDB. Data can be entered into the database with data forms or existing data can be retrieved from the database and viewed and/or edited. See Section 3.4 for information on navigating through the forms and Section 4.3.2 on entering and editing data using the data entry forms.
IMSOpsManual_v2.docx 42 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

3.2.2 Electronic Data Loaders
Filter programs (AKA data loaders) are used to load all electronic data into the regional databases. The RIMS application includes forms from which each filter can be executed. The filters may also be executed from the command line. See Section 4.3.1 for more information on processing Electronic Data.

3.2.3 QC Programs
When new data has been entered or loaded into the LTPP database, a series of Quality Checks (QC) programs are run to check the reasonableness of many of the data elements. For more information about QC programs and how to run them, see Section 4.5.

3.3 Minor RIMS Components
The minor components of the application are the remaining items listed on this menu: the System Options screen, and the RIMS DBA Functions.

3.3.1 System Options Screen
The System Options Screen allows each user to specify default settings for data input and output directories (see Figure 32). Once changes are made, the user should press F10 to save changes.

Figure 32. System Options Screen in RIMS

3.3.2 RIMS DBA Operations
Database Administration Tools in RIMS are shown in Figure 33. System-Wide Section Maintenance (option 1) allows entire construction events to be deleted from the database. It also allows the user to update the key fields STATE_CODE and SHRP_ID for a section throughout the database. Modular Key Maintenance (option 2) allows the DBA to update layer numbers throughout various modules in the database.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

43

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 33. DBA Utilities Available from RIMS

3.4 RIMS Navigation
3.4.1 Menu Navigation
Navigation through RIMS is simple, though counterintuitive to newer users. A series of menu screens guides the user to the desired form. Each screen requires a selection from a list of options. A menu option can be selected by typing the associated number into the box at the bottom of the screen. The user then presses <Enter> to move to the selected screen. Note that the mouse is not used for menu navigation. 3.4.1.1 Example 1. Navigating to Inventory Entry Forms A data entry technician has an INVENTORY data sheet that needs to be entered into the database through RIMS. When the Main Menu is displayed, the user types 1 for the Data Entry/Edit option and presses <Enter>. This will cause the Data Entry/Edit menu to be displayed (see Figure 34). 1 is typed again for the Inventory Data option, and the screen in Figure 35 is displayed.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

44

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 34. Data Entry/Edit Menu

Figure 35. Screen List for INV Data Entry/Edit

3.4.2 Menu to Form Navigation
The screen in Figure 35 lists all of the Inventory data forms that are available in RIMS for data entry or edit, and each form listed corresponds to one paper data sheet. The desired form is selected by typing the number of the form and pressing <Enter>. Note: The user may need to press the <Page Down> key to see all forms available from RIMS. If the user selected Screen No. 1, the entry form in Figure 36 would be displayed. Some modules, including the Materials Testing Module, display an alphanumeric in the Screen No. field rather than a number. The alphanumeric should be typed in to select a form in this case.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

45

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 36. Inventory 1 Data Entry Form

3.4.3 Form to Menu, Form to Form Navigation
Once data entry had begun, there are often several datasheets to enter for a given module. After entering data into the last data field on a screen, pressing the <TAB> key usually moves the cursor to the Next Sheet field at the bottom of the form. The user can return to the screen list by typing a 0 in the Next Sheet field and pressing <Enter>. Or, if the user knows the identifier for the next desired entry form in the same module, he or she can type the identifier into the Next Sheet field and press <Enter> to display that entry form. Occasionally, an entry form has multiple screens of data elements to enter. In that case, the Next Sheet field is on the last screen. The user can navigate to the next screen by pressing <Tab> after the last data element on the current screen. Pressing the <Page Down> key from anywhere on the entry form should move the cursor to the Next Sheet field on the last screen.

3.4.4 Item Level Navigation
The <TAB> should be used almost exclusively for navigation on forms. The forms were written for use with the keyboard, not the mouse. Certain background commands are executed when the <TAB> key is pressed to go from one field to the next and most of the forms will not function properly if the mouse is used to navigate. For example, most item-level validation is done when tabbing to the next item. If there is a warning or error, the message will be displayed in the status bar at the bottom of the form after the <TAB> key is pressed. Remember: The forms were written for use with the keyboard, not the mouse. The <TAB> key should be used for navigation on forms. One or two of the newer forms take advantage of the mouse by allowing the user to select from a list by clicking checkboxes and radio buttons (e.g. RHB_CAUSE_INFO ­ Form RI-1). Such forms are easily identified by the format of the form.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

46

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

3.4.5 Exiting a Form
To exit a form without saving changes, the user may press the CTRL-q key combination once or twice. Note: Caps Lock cannot be on for this to work! You can back out of the entire application by pressing CTRL-q until the last form is dismissed. (Note: Clicking the x` in the upper right corner of the application has the same effect as CTRLq.) Use CTRL-q to exit a form without saving changes. If changes have been made to a record, navigate to the Next Sheet or Next Test field at the bottom of the form to move to another form. Changes will be saved automatically. You can tab through all fields or you can press Page Down to get to the bottom of the form. Navigate through the Next Sheet field to save changes and reset record status to A`. When a record is updated and saved in the RIMS application, the record status will be set back to A.` If you do not intend to make changes to a record, use CTRL-q to exit the form rather than going to the Next Sheet field. Due to the way queries and validation are performed on some forms, the record status field can be set back to A` even if you have not made intentional changes to the record. Note: Caps Lock cannot be on for Ctrl-q to work

3.5 Function Keys
The following is a short list of function keys available in RIMS. For additional keys, use the Help\Keys menu item from any form. F7 F8 F9 F10 Enter Query Mode Execute Query Show List of Values Save

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

47

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 4. Regional Operations
4.1 Data Flow
Regional operations are driven by the flow of data through a rigid process depicted in Figure 37. All data entered into the LTPP Pavement Performance Database, whether electronic or on paper forms, goes through the same basic process. Data coming into the regional office is reviewed, often with the help of preprocessing software, then loaded into the database by filter or by entry form, and then checked for quality by the Quality Checks (QC) software. Based on the results of the QC software, the data may go through a correction or upgrade process. Data loaded at the regions is then uploaded to the Pavement Performance Database in the central office and is subsequently released to data analysts and researchers. Refer to the numbered sections in this document that match the tasks in Figure 37 for a description of the task.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx 48

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System
4.2 Collect Data

Operations Manual

4.3 Process Data

4.3.1 Electronic Data

4.3.2 Sheet Data

4.3.1.1 Backup Raw Data 4.3.1.2 Review Data/Run Preprocessors 4.3.2.1 Review Data Sheets

4.3.1.3 Archive Processed Data 4.3.1.4 Load Data into Database 4.3.2.2 Enter Data with RIMS

4.4 Run CN Assign 4.8 Manually Upgrade Data
Y

4.5 Perform QC Checks
N

Is Data Correct?

4.8 Correct Data 4.6 Review QC Output

4.7 Research Data Anomalies

N

All non-level E records reviewed and updated as appropriate?

N

All Data Records at level E?

Y

Y

4.12 Populate AIMS Folders

4.9 Run Record Counts

4.11 Scan Paper Data Sheets

4.10 Upload Data to PPDB

Figure 37. Regional Data Flow Diagram
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 49 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

4.2 Collect Data
Many resource documents exist to support data collection activities. Most collection activities are specified in directives from FHWA. For example, information on site selection, site preparation and data collection for AWS sites can be found in directive AWS-01.

4.3 Process Data
The type and format of the data determines how the data is processed. Some data is collected in electronic data files and some data is collected on a paper data sheet.

4.3.1 Electronic Data
Many data modules have at least some electronic data to process. Table 7 lists the data modules and the filter program(s) used with each module, as well as other modulespecific information. Table 7. Filter, CN, and QC Programs and Chapters for each Data Module Data Module
Administration Automated Weather Station Climate Dynamic Load Response Ground Penetrating Radar Inventory Maintenance Monitoring Deflection FWD25LOD FWDCOMM PDDXLOAD RBAKCAL FBAKCAL JpccFault CROSSSLOPELOAD PADIAS PADIAS42 NA

Filter Program
NA AWSLOAD CLMLOAD DLRLOAD_AC DLRLOAD_PCC GPRLOAD NA NA

CN
N N N N Y N Y Y

QC Program*
EXP_QC AdminQC AWS ClmOwsQC ClmVwsQC DLR GprQC Init3 INV_QC MNT_QC

QC Manual Chapter
Chapter 25 Chapter 23 Chapter 12 Chapter 24 Chapter 28 Chapter 2 Chapter 9

FWD25

Chapter 5

R Backcalc F Backcalc Manual Distress Auto Distress (Padias10) (Padias42) Drainage

RGDBKQC BKCALCQC DIS_QC DISPAD10 DISPAD42 MonDrainQC Chapter 27 Chapter 7 Chapter 7

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

50

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual QC Manual Chapter
Chapter 8 Chapter 4 Chapter 6

Data Module
Friction Profile Transverse Profile Rehabilitation Seasonal Monitoring Program Specific Pavement Studies Traffic

Filter Program
NA PROFLOAD TPRFLOAD CrossSlopeLoad TPRFCLOD NA SMPLOAD TDRMANUALLOAD SMPFRAUT NA

CN

QC Program*
FRICTION PROFQC TPROF CrossSlopeQC

Y Y

RHB_* SMP_* TdrManualQC SPS#_* SINIT#, # = 1,2,5,6,7,8 SPS_misc TRF_QC TrafficAnalysisQC

Chapter 10 Chapter 22

Y

Chs 13 ­ 21 and Chapter 26 Chapter 11

EST_TRAF TDSHEET4 TDSHEET5 TDSHEET7 TDSHEET8 TRFLOAD TRF_SPS Aggshape MatActLoad MatLoad P46Load

N

Test

Y

TST_* EstarQC

Chapter 3

P46 P07V2 PGBinderQC UnboundSpecGravQC * The asterisk in the QC program name indicates that there is a separate program for level C, level D, and level E QC (quality checks). For example, TST_* represents TST_C, TST_D, and TST_E programs. Some SPS# programs have additional divisions such as D1 and D2 or BC instead of just C.

4.3.1.1 Backup Raw Data Raw data files should be copied to ensure that no data is lost in transit from field to office. 4.3.1.2 Review Data/Run Preprocessors The header portion of electronic data files should be reviewed manually for required information. Automated preprocessing software checks much of the electronic data for correct format and reasonable values. For example: AWS data is preprocessed with the AWSCHECK software. FWD data is preprocessed with the FWDSCAN software. Longitudinal and Transverse Profile data is preprocessed with the PROQUAL software. This excludes the dipstick data. SMP data is preprocessed with the SMPCHECK software.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 51 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

4.3.1.3 Archive Processed Data Instructions for data archival can be found in the directives. In most cases, both processed data and raw data should be archived. 4.3.1.4 Filter Data into Database Table 7 lists the filter programs used for each module. The RIMS application includes forms from which each filter can be executed. The filters may also be executed from the command line. Therefore, both options for executing the filters will be described. Each filter requires several pieces of information to load the input file into the database and create a log file in the correct output directory: 4.3.1.4.1 Specify Output Directory Before running any filter, the output directory variables in the PATHS table should be populated. For example, before running the FWD25LOD filter, the IMSFWD25OUT variable should contain the directory into which output files (log files) will be created. This has typically been the C:\LTPPOUT\FWD\LOG\ directory. (Notice that the last \` must be included.) These fields can easily be populated for each user from the System Options screen in RIMS (see Section 3.3.1). 4.3.1.4.2 Specify Input Directory If the filter will be executed from the RIMS application, the input directory can be specified in the System Options screen in RIMS. When the filter form is selected, the default input directory is displayed, and the user can change the directory each time the filter is invoked. When running from the command line, the user must specify the full path for the input file unless the filter is run from the input directory. These fields can easily be populated for each user from the System Options screen in RIMS (see Section 3.3.1). 4.3.1.4.3 Specify Database Connect String The connect string is the Username/Password@database string that specifies into which user`s schema the data will be loaded. When running from the forms, the connect string is determined by the information used to log in to RIMS. When running from the command line, this is included as an input parameter.
Example 2: Filtering FWD data from RIMS form

From the Main Menu, the user should pick options 4. Filter Processing and Deleting, 1. Filter Processing, and 8. FWD Edition 25. The first entry box, Path Name, shows the default input directory, if populated. The input directory for FWD25 data has typically been C:\LTPP\DATA\FWD25\. If this field is not populated or the user has data elsewhere to load, the Path Name can be typed here. The second entry box is for the File Name. The filename should be typed here with wildcards if more than one file needs to be loaded. When the user presses <TAB> to leave the File Name field, the form generates the command to run the filter and then executes it.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

52

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

A log file will be generated in the output directory specified in the Systems Options Screen for IMSFWD25OUT. The log file should be reviewed for errors.
Example 3. Filtering Aggshape data from the Command Line

Most filter programs use the same syntax to execute from the command line. The output directory must be specified in the PATHS table (use System Options screen in RIMS to populate ­ Section 3.3.1). The user should check that the system path includes the LTPP\BIN directory as well. (Type path at a command prompt to see the system path.) The user should open a Command Prompt window and change directories to the input directory where the data is located. Type the following:
Aggshape InputFileName OracleConnectString <Enter>

This will load the inputfile into the database specified. The log file will go into the output directory specified in the PATHS table for IMSTESTINGOUT. The log file should be reviewed for errors.

4.3.2 Sheet Data
Most modules have some sheet data to enter into the database. The exceptions are the CLM, DLR and Longitudinal and Transverse Profile data modules. Sheet data comes in the form of paper data sheets that may have been filled out by one of the state or provincial agencies or by a regional engineer on-site during construction or rehabilitation of an LTPP section. Some data modules are composed entirely of sheet data (INV, TST) and others have mostly electronic data with only one or two sheets of calibration or linking information (AWS, SMP). 4.3.2.1 Review Data Sheets An engineer familiar with the LTPP section should review all data sheets submitted by an agency before the data is entered into the database. Questionable values or blank items should be researched and corrected. 4.3.2.2 Enter Data with RIMS Forms Basic forms instructions are included in the RIMS Navigation Section (Section 3.4) of this document. For specific information about each data entry form, refer to the Forms Index in the User`s Guides section of the LTPP Operations Center. Much LTPP data has been collected on paper datasheets. In most cases, one datasheet represents one entry form. Entry forms were designed to look like the datasheets to avoid mismatches of data being entered by a data entry technician. Database tables were also designed to keep related data together. Most of the data from a particular datasheet is stored together in one table. So, a simple way to think of the database is: Datasheet = Entry Form = Database Table 4.3.2.2.1 Section Identifier The highway sections for which data is collected are identified by a two-digit code (STATE_CODE) for the state/province it is in and a four-character ID (SHRP_ID)
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 53 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

assigned when the section was accepted into the program. The STATE_CODE is defined in the STATE_PROVINCE codetype in the CODES table. For example, 1` is Alabama, 27` is Minnesota, and 87` is Ontario. 4.3.2.2.2 Key Fields Each datasheet has key fields that uniquely identify the data on that sheet. This is important in a database because data must be retrieved for analysis once entered. Most data tables use STATE_CODE and SHRP_ID as two of the key fields. The data analyst can then easily relate all data records for a particular section by sorting the data by STATE_CODE and SHRP_ID. If there are multiple records for a section in one table, additional key fields are required to uniquely identify each record. For monitoring data, the date of the collection activity is usually a key field. Other key fields could include TEST_NO, TEST_TEMPERATURE, SAMPLE_NO, RUN_NUMBER, HOUR, etc. The key fields are listed at the top of the datasheets, and, therefore, are at the top of the entry forms. 4.3.2.2.3 Key Field Entry Once an entry form has been selected and is open on the screen, the key fields must be entered. STATE_CODE will generally be first, followed by SHRP_ID and the remaining key fields. A line separates the keys from the rest of the data elements. This top portion of the form is called the control block. When the entry technician presses <TAB> to leave the last key field in the control block, the form executes a query to see if the data is already in the table. If a record with matching keys is found, it is displayed on the form. Otherwise, the entry technician can continue to enter data in the data block of the form. 4.3.2.2.4 Saving Data When data entry for a form is complete, the operator will <TAB> to the Next Sheet field and enter 0 to go back to the form list or the identifier for the next desired entry form. Upon pressing <TAB> to go to the next form, the data in the current form is validated and saved. The data entry technician can also press F10 at the bottom of the form to save the data to the database before moving to the next form. 4.3.2.2.5 List of Values (LOV) Many fields on the entry forms have been programmed to generate a list of values (LOV) already stored in those fields in the associated table. When the cursor is on an item that has an LOV defined, the phrase List of Values appears in the status bar at the bottom of the screen. Pressing F9 at this point will display a list of values. The LOV displayed for the STATE_CODE is the entire list of codes that could be entered for the agency (state/province). However, for most other fields, the list displayed will be based on the data stored in the table and will be filtered by the key fields already entered. For example, in the Deflection Temperature entry form (form 1 for Deflection), once 48` has been chosen (or entered) for the STATE_CODE and 1048` has been chosen or entered for the SHRP_ID, the LOV generated for the Station, Location and Date fields only include values stored in the database for section 1048 in state 48 (Texas). If no records have been entered into the associated table for this section, no values will be displayed.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

54

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

A value can be selected from the LOV by moving the cursor to the desired value and pressing <ENTER>. The LOV is a handy tool for browsing the database or testing a form. However, most data entry will be done with a datasheet in hand, and the LOV feature will not be needed.

4.4 Assign Construction Number (CN) to Data Records
Each highway section included in the LTPP study has a documented pavement structure when it is accepted into the program. This structure is assigned a construction number (CONSTRUCTION_NO or CN) of 1. As maintenance and rehabilitation activities are performed on the section, the construction number is incremented and the changes are documented in the database. These changes are identified by the new construction number. CONSTRUCTION_NO is a key field in the EXPERIMENT_SECTION table, which contains one record for each STATE_CODE, SHRP_ID and CONSTRUCTION_NO combination. Occasionally, a rehabilitation event causes a section to move to a different experimental study or to go out of study. For example, an AC overlay placed on a section in the GPS-1 study could move the section to the GPS6B study. Since the pavement structure is critical to many types of pavement performance analysis, each data collection activity must be associated with the correct structure and the correct CN. Most data tables contain the CONSTRUCTION_NO field. As new maintenance or rehabilitation activities are added to the database, this field can get out of sync with the correct pavement structure for that data record. Therefore, a package of stored procedures has been developed to assign the correct CN to each data record by comparing the date of data collection to the date each CN was assigned to a given section. The CN assign procedure must be run before QC checks are performed on a module of data. All data tables go through the same process. As each table is processed, a list of records to be updated will be generated. In addition, several record counts will be provided including: the total number of records, the number of records with the correct CN, the number of records with the wrong CN, the number of records updated, and the number of records which still contain the wrong CN after the update. The default format of the CN output file is HTML. This makes the output easier to read although there is also an option to write a plain text report.

4.4.1 CN Process Notes
The CN procedure will always begin by processing the six TST sampling tables using EXPERIMENT_SECTION to set the CN. These tables are: TST_ASPHALT_CEMENT, TST_FRESH_PCC, TST_SAMPLE_BULK_AC_AGG, TST_SAMPLE_LOG, TST_SAMPLE_LOG_SPS_3_4, and TST_UNCOMP_BITUMINOUS. The procedure will then refresh the TST_SAMPLE_BASIC_INFO view. At this point, the procedure will set the CN for all tables selected for processing, based on the fields available in each
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 55 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

table. For example, if the table has STATE_CODE, SHRP_ID and FIELD_SET, the procedure will use the updated sampling view to set the CN. If FIELD_SET is not available, the procedure will use an appropriate date field and the EXPERIMENT_SECTION table to set the CN. The CN assign procedure must be run before QC checks are performed on a module of data. See Table 7 for a list of data modules and an indicator (Y/N) as to whether a module has the CONSTRUCTION_NO field in any of its tables.

4.4.2 Using the CN Utilities
A batch file has been provided for running the CN assignment utilities. It is called AssignCN.bat and is located in the CN directory under the LTPP client software root directory. This batch file runs AssignCN.sql which in turn calls the CN utilities to update the construction numbers. AssignCN.bat takes three mandatory parameters and one optional parameter. The mandatory parameters are the connect string, the wildcard for the tables to process, and the output filename. The optional parameter is the HTML output flag. To run AssignCN.bat, type the following at a DOS command prompt:
AssignCN connect_string table_wildcard output_filename (html_flag)

The connect string is a standard Oracle connect string consisting of the username, password, and instance. It is formatted as username/password@instance. The table wildcard pattern follows the Oracle standard for wildcards. Therefore, to process all of the tables beginning with TST`, the wildcard would be written as TST%`. The output filename can be either a relative or absolute path for where the file is to be written. Spaces are not allowed in the path or filename, and if the extension is omitted, .lis is appended by default. Note: The file extension does NOT affect the format of the file. Finally, there is the HTML flag. If it is not specified, the output file will be formatted with HTML. This is also the case when this flag is TRUE`. If plain text output is desired, then specify FALSE` for the HTML flag. An example of setting the construction number for all SPS1 tables with HTML output would be as follows.
AssignCN user/pass@inst sps1% sps1_cn.html

An example of setting the construction number for all SPS1 tables with plain text output would be as follows.
AssignCN user/pass@inst sps1% sps1_cn.lis false

4.5 Perform QC Checks
When new data has been entered or loaded into the LTPP database, a series of Quality Checks (QC) programs are run to check the reasonableness of many of the data elements. Three types of checks are performed on the data.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

56

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Level-C Checks ­ These are checks to identify critical fields that contain a null value. Level-D Checks - These are range checks on the validity and reasonableness of values entered in a field. Level-E Checks - These checks are relational checks between data stored in one field and data stored in other related fields or tables.

4.5.1 QC Summary
QC programs are intended to run one level of QC checks at a time. Once level C has been run, the level C output is checked for errors, i.e., records that do not pass the checks. Records are corrected (or upgraded, see Section 4.8) as necessary, and level C QC is run again. Once the user is satisfied with the level C output, level D QC is run. Level D output is reviewed, corrections and upgrades are made and level E QC is run. Once level E output has been reviewed and the user is satisfied with the results, the QC process is complete.

4.5.2 Execute QC Programs
QC Programs are executed from the command line using the following syntax:
NameOfQCProgram OutputFilename OracleConnectString QCLevel

For example, to run the level C transverse profile QC, one would type the following:
tprof tprof_c.lis dbauser/dbapassword@database C

If the LTPP\QC directory is referenced in the system path (type path at the command line to check), the QC programs can be run from any directory on the computer. Typing just the program name at the prompt will cause the program to display information about the syntax for executing the program. See Table 7 for the QC programs associated with each data module.

4.5.3 Record Status Field
The RECORD_STATUS field in each table stores the quality status of each record. Records passing all level C checks are upgraded to RECORD_STATUS = C. Records passing level D checks are upgraded to D, and records passing level E checks are upgraded to E.

4.6 Review QC Output
Each time a QC program is executed, an output file is generated listing each table and any records that did not pass the checks on that table. QC output files can be reviewed on-screen or can be printed. Files can be very large and should be checked for size before printing. All QC output has some general header info at the top of the file including date and time of run. For each database table with QC checks, the level C output has the table name and a column for each key field and for each required field. If a record is missing one or more required fields, the key fields are filled in and an R is placed in the columns for the missing field(s). See Appendix B for a sample QC output files.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 57 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Level D QC output is formatted much like level C, except data elements that do not fall within the expected range are printed in the appropriate column. Level E output lists key fields for each error record and then an error message for each error encountered. Error messages are numbered to facilitate looking up the corresponding check in the QC Manual. The QC Manual chapter corresponding to each data module is listed in Table 7.

4.7 Research Data Anomalies
QC output is used to identify records that have data anomalies. Sometimes, a data element is merely overlooked, mistyped or can be found or verified on the paper data sheet or in other documentation.

4.8 Correct or Manually Upgrade Data
A record that is listed in the level C QC output has not been upgraded to RECORD_STATUS = C by the QC program. This indicates that the record is missing one or more required fields. However, regional personnel may conclude that the missing data cannot be determined, but that the remaining data is still useful. In this case, the failing record can be manually (with SQL) upgraded to level C. Once all possible missing data is entered or records are manually upgraded, the level C QC can be rerun and the new output can be examined. Once the data manager is satisfied with the level C QC output, level D QC can be run. All records with RECORD_STATUS = C` that pass the level D checks will be upgraded to RECORD_STATUS = D. Level D output will be used to make corrections to the records that did not pass level D checks. In this case, a data value may have been mistyped or it may need to be removed because it is obviously wrong. However, if the data is correct and is just outside the expected range, the record can be manually upgraded to level D. Level D QC can be rerun to recheck and upgrade corrected records. Once the data manager is satisfied with level D QC output, level E QC is run. All records with RECORD_STATUS = D` that pass the level E checks will be upgraded to level E. Records that do not pass will be listed in the level E output and that will be used to make corrections and upgrades. Level E QC can be rerun to recheck and upgrade corrected records. Manual upgrades are performed using the Browser Application and QC output files to generate manual upgrade scripts for qualifying records. Refer to Browser documentation for more information on how to manually upgrade qualifying records. Not all data records will make it to level E. Some records will stay at a lower level until a revision to a QC program is distributed. Some records will not be upgraded because there is a question about the quality or correctness of the data.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

58

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

4.9 Run Record Counts
The record count program (rec_cnt.exe) can be run on the regional database to create a report showing how many records in each data table have advanced to a record status of E`. See Appendix H for a sample report from the record count program. For information about running various reports with the record count program, type rec_cnt` with no parameters on the command line and press Enter`.

4.10 Upload Data to PPDB
The schedule of data uploads is determined by the FHWA with input from the TSSC, and is based on the schedule required to get the data ready for public release. Upload scripts and instructions will be provided to the regions two weeks before the upload is due. See Appendix C for a sample set of upload instructions.

4.11 Scan Paper Data Sheets
Once paper data sheets have been reviewed and processed, they are scanned and filed in accordance with Directive GO-48, referenced in Appendix A.14.

4.12 Populate AIMS Folders
Directive GO-48 also provides instructions on electronic format, file naming conventions, and directory structure for the submission of files to the Ancillary Information Management System (AIMS).

4.13 Apply Software Releases
Occasional software releases are distributed, by directive, to the regional offices to provide updates to the RIMS Application and to the database. A description of the release contents is included in the directive along with instructions that should be followed carefully to ensure that updates are applied properly. A sample directive for IMS Software Release is provided in Appendix D. An overview of the most important steps is provided here.

4.13.1 Backup Regional Database
It is very important to backup the regional database before any changes or updates have been applied. If something were to go wrong during the upgrade process, the database can be restored to its previous condition using a good backup. In general, the database should be shutdown before a backup is done in order to make sure all database files have the same timestamp. Refer to Appendix G for a sample backup procedure from Region 4.

4.13.2 Run Release Batch File
A batch file is provided with the software release so that all scripts and commands can be run in the correct and consistent order. The first command is usually to export any tables that are updated or changed by the release. If the export is successful, a set of scripts will
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 59 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

be run on the database. These scripts will update table structures, data or stored procedures, or sometimes create new tables or fields.

4.13.3 Review Output Files
Once the batch file is complete, there will be output files to review. A log file will be created when tables are exported and list files (.lis) will be created to record the results of scripts run on the database. It is very important to check the output files created by the batch file to verify that the release batch file ran successfully.

4.13.4 Update RIMS Programs
A zip file with updated executables will be included with the release. The instructions will provide details about where to copy the file and how to unzip it so the new programs will go into the appropriate area.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

60

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Chapter 5. Central Operations
5.1 DBA Functions
This section includes instructions on a few functions that the DBA is required to perform. There is no way to document all possible situations. Therefore, the Oracle 10g Documentation Set, which can be viewed at http://www.oracle.com/pls/db102/homepage, is invaluable. The home page is shown in Figure 38. It has a tabbed interface which is broken up by function. When in a tab, a list of relevant documentation is shown. The SQL Reference and Administrator`s Guide are two of the more used manuals. The Error Message and Utilities documents are also quite useful.

Figure 38. Oracle Documentation Library

5.1.1 Increase Tablespace Size
When a tablespace fills up, it will usually need to be increased in size to accommodate more data. Original tablespace sizes were estimated and a maximum size was dictated to avoid tablespaces growing very large without the administrator`s knowledge.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx 61

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1. Start the Oracle Enterprise Manager Console Application from the Oracle 10g Program Menu 2. Click on database that requires maintenance; the Database Connect Information window will appear to allow input of username and password. Notice that information about the selected object is shown in the window on the right 3. The database tree will expand to show categories of database objects that can be managed from this tool. Click on the +` in front of Storage 4. The Storage Category will expand to show Tablespaces, Datafiles, etc. Click on the + in front of Tablespaces 5. The Tablespaces list will expand to show all tablespaces associated with the selected database. Notice that there are data tablespaces and index tablespaces. Find the tablespace that requires adjustments; click on the +` 6. Objects associated with the tablespace are now shown. Click on the +` in front of Datafiles. Click on the icon in front of the datafile. Information about the datafile is shown in the window on the right. This is where maximum size values are stored

5.1.2 Clone Database
Cloning must be done from the Administrator account on the server to have the necessary privileges. 5.1.2.1 Before Cloning for the First Time If the destination instance is brand new, a service will need to be created for the instance: 1. Create a new PFILE for the instance by copying an existing copy. For example, copy initimsprod.ora to initimstest.ora
copy C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\database\initimsprod.ora C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\database\initimstest.ora

2. Edit the new PFILE and change IMSPROD to IMSTEST everywhere
notepad C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\database\initimstest.ora

3. Create the directories for the new instance
md G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest md G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Trace md G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Tablespaces md G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Modifications

4. Create the service for IMSTest
oradim ­new ­sid IMSTest ­syspwd sys4imstest ­maxusers 50 ­startmode auto -pfile "C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\database\initimstest.ora"

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

62

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5. Edit C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\network\admin\tnsnames.ora. Duplicate the IMSProd entry and change IMSProd to IMSTest in the copy
notepad C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\network\admin\tnsnames.ora

6. Edit C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\network\admin\Listener.ora. Duplicate the IMSProd entry and change IMSProd to IMSTest in the copy
notepad C:\oracle\product\10.2.0\LTPP\network\admin\listener.ora

7. Restart the listener
lsnrctl stop lsnrctl start

5.1.2.2 Cloning 1. Shut down the source instance to be cloned
sqlplus "sys/sys4imsprod@imsprod as sysdba" create pfile from spfile; alter database backup controlfile to trace; shutdown immediate; exit;

2. Shut down the destination instance
sqlplus "sys/sys4imstest@imstest as sysdba" shutdown immediate; exit;

3. Delete the files from the destination directories (G: is the LTPP_Database drive on the TFHRC server). Log on as Administrator.
del G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest del G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Trace del G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Tablespaces

4. Copy the source instance to the destination
copy G:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\*.* G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest copy G:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\Tablespaces\*.* G:\LTPP_Database\IMSTest\Tablespaces

5. Create an SQL script to generate a new control file that sets the new database name and points to the new file location. Note that once this script is created, you will only need to repeat these steps when new data files are added to the database o Find the trace file with the same timestamp as the alter database backup controlfile to trace command. This will be located in the source database`s trace directory. An example would be D:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\Trace\imsprod_ora_2976.trc. o Edit the trace file
notepad D:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\Trace\imsprod_ora_2976.trc

o Find the Set #2. RESETLOGS case section
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 63 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

o Delete everything above the STARTUP NOMOUNT line o Find the ALTER TABLESPACE line and delete everything below it o Find the line with the ; (semi-colon) after CHARACTER SET US7ASCII. o Remove all lines down to ALTER DATABASE OPEN... o Remove all commented lines (lines beginning --_. o Change all IMSPROD to IMSTEST o Change the CREATE CONTROLFILE REUSE DATABASE line to CREATE CONTROLFILE REUSE SET DATABASE o Save the file as G:\LTPP_Database\CreateIMSTestControlFile.sql 6. Execute the script to create the control file and start the database. Also create an SPFILE and restart the database instance using it. User passwords should also be changed to accompany the new instance. At the command prompt ­
sqlplus "sys/sys4imstest@imstest as sysdba" (Note: if not connected to an idle instance - Shutdown immediate;) @G:\LTPP_Database\CreateIMSTestControlFile.sql Alter user ltppdba identified by newpwd; Alter user custsupp identified by newpwd; Alter user system identified by newpwd; Alter user ... identified by newpwd; shutdown immediate; create spfile from pfile; startup;

7. Connect to the database from which the clone was made and start it.
Connect sys/sys4imsprod@imsprod as sysdba Startup;

8. If the listener does not know of the service when the attempt is made to log on do the following at the command prompt: o Check for listener services (lnsr services) o Shut down the listener (lsnr stop) o Go to Control Panel/Computer Management/Local Services and verify that the service has been started. o Check tnsnames.ora for the existence of the service o Check listener.ora for the existence of the service o Restart the listener (lsnr start)

5.1.3 Interpret Oracle Error Messages
There are multiple ways to interpret Oracle error messages. A good starting point is using either the Oracle Error Messages book or the Search tab of the Oracle Documentation Library as shown in Figure 39. This will give you a basic understanding of what the error is and its possible causes.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

64

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 39. Oracle Error Search Another valuable technique in diagnosing errors is to look in the database`s trace directory. The alert log and trace files located there may provide extra details about the error. Finally, don`t forget about Google and My Oracle Support. Do an internet search. You will often find that others have already had the same problem that you are having and that ready solutions are available.

5.1.4 Stop/Start the Database
There are two methods of starting and stopping the Oracle database instances. One method is to start and stop the corresponding Windows service. The names of these services all begin with OracleService and end with the instance name. Stopping the service will stop the instance and starting the service will start the instance. Starting and stopping can be done using the Windows control panel or using the net start and net stop commands in a command Window. When Windows starts, the services are automatically started and therefore the databases are running when the server starts.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 65 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

When a Windows shut down is required, during a power failure for example, the services will shut down which will cleanly shut down the databases. The other method of starting and stopping the databases is to use SQL*Plus. This is a good method to use for performing cold backups, because it gives us the chance to perform some other housekeeping activities like creating backups of the parameters and control file. Shutting down the database only requires the SHUTDOWN IMMEDIATE command, but the commands below can make cloning and recovery easier.
SQLPLUS "/@IMSProd AS SYSDBA" CREATE PFILE='BackupInitIMSProd.ora' FROM SPFILE; ALTER DATABASE BACKUP CONTROLFILE TO TRACE; SHUTDOWN IMMEDIATE; EXIT;

Starting the database from SQL*Plus is equally easy. Just use STARTUP.
SQLPLUS "/@IMSProd AS SYSDBA" STARTUP; EXIT;

5.1.5 Recover Database
Database recovery can be a complex task. Fortunately, you often get lucky. Sometimes all it takes is the command RECOVER DATABASE. Hopefully, you will see the Database Recovered message.
SQLPLUS "/@IMSProd AS SYSDBA" RECOVER DATABASE; EXIT;

Other times a slightly more complex version of the command is required. That is RECOVER DATABASE UNTIL CANCEL. This gives you the opportunity to try each of the three redo logs until you happen to hit the one that was in use when the database crashed.
SQLPLUS "/@IMSProd AS SYSDBA" RECOVER DATABASE USING BACKUP CONTROLFILE UNTIL CANCEL; G:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\redo01.log G:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\redo02.log G:\LTPP_Database\IMSProd\redo03.log EXIT;

One of those two procedures will most likely recover the database. If they do not, an Oracle service request may need to be created to have them help in recovering the database or a recent backup may need to be restored.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

66

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.1.6 Change Schema
Due to the requirement to keep several databases in sync, it is not recommended that any tools other than SQL scripts be used to change the schema. SQL scripts provide a repeatable means of making changes to the schema. That does not mean that GUI tools such as Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) and SQL Developer are not useful. Both OEM and SQL Developer have tools to show you the SQL statements necessary to recreate an object. For example, you can make a change to an object using the GUI and click Show SQL instead of Apply. A window will pop up showing the SQL that OEM would use to make the change. That SQL can be a good starting point in the generation of scripts, although it is important to remove all of the schema references since not all regions use LTPPDBA for the PPDB schema. 5.1.6.1 Add/Remove/Modify Field See ALTER TABLE in the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual for syntax options for this command. Some examples are as follows:
ALTER TABLE tablename ADD (newcolumn NUMBER(3,1)); ALTER TABLE tablename DROP COLUMN oldcolumn; ALTER TABLE tablename MODIFY (smallnumber NUMBER(4,1));

The first statement would add a column called NEWCOLUMN as datatype NUMBER(3,1). The second statement would remove OLDCOLUMN from the table. The third statement could be used to change SMALLNUMBER from a NUMBER(3,1) to a NUMBER(4,1). 5.1.6.2 Add/Remove Keys/Constraints See ALTER TABLE in the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual for syntax options for this command. Some examples are as follows:
ALTER TABLE tablename ADD CONSTRAINT pk_newtable PRIMARY KEY (state_code, shrp_id) USING INDEX TABLESPACE index_tablespace; ALTER TABLE tablename DROP CONSTRAINT pk_newtable;

The first statement would add a constraint to the table. This could be any type of constraint such as NOT NULL. The second statement drops the constraint that was just added. 5.1.6.3 Add/Remove Table See CREATE TABLE and DROP TABLE in the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual syntax options for this command. Examples of the basic statement are as follows:
CREATE TABLE newtable ( state_code shrp_id data NUMBER(2,0) NOT NULL, VARCHAR2(4) NOT NULL, NUMBER(6,2)

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

67

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System
CONSTRAINT pk_newtable PRIMARY KEY (state_code, shrp_id) USING INDEX TABLESPACE index_tablespace ) TABLESPACE table_tablespace; DROP TABLE newtable;

Operations Manual

The first command creates a table, in the tablespace table_tablespace, with STATE_CODE and SHRP_ID as the primary key with one column containing numeric data. The second statement removes the table that was just created.

5.1.7 User Administration
User administration in Oracle involves privileges, passwords, and storage. It is important to understand the term user and schema are interchangeable. It is the privileges that control whether or not the user can create tables or even connect to the database. 5.1.7.1 Add/Remove Users Users can be created using two different commands. One is the CREATE USER command and the other is the GRANT command. Refer to the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual for further details on these commands. Neither command can accomplish everything by itself. A quick way to create a user who can create tables in the database`s default tablespace and default temporary space is to use the GRANT command. For example,
GRANT RESOURCE, CONNECT TO newuser IDENTIFIED BY newpass;

will create a user who can connect to the database as NEWUSER with NEWPASS as the password. This will allow the user to create tables in his/her own schema. It is more useful to use roles when creating new users instead of individual privileges. Three useful roles are DBA, SELECT_ONLY, and POWER_USER. The DBA role is defined by Oracle and provides the ability to manage the database. The SELECT_ONLY and POWER_USER roles are maintained as part of the PPDB. The SELECT_ONLY role provides the privileges necessary to read PPDB tables (LTPPDBA schema in the central database). It does not provide the ability to change any of these tables. The SELECT_ONLY role has been granted the Connect privilege. The POWER_USER role provides the ability to change the PPDB tables in addition to reading them. The POWER_USER role has been granted: Select_Only, Connect, Resource. So, to create a user who can use the IMS software to maintain the PPDB data, use the following command:
GRANT POWER_USER TO newuser IDENTIFIED BY newpass;

The CREATE USER command is similar, but privileges will need to be granted separately:
CREATE USER newuser IDENTIFIED BY newpass; GRANT POWER_USER TO newuser;

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

68

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

These commands accomplish the same thing as the single GRANT command above. A user in the IMSPROD database that is required for some of the Standard Data Release activities is CUSTSUPP a user to whom the SELECT_ONLY role is granted. Removing users is accomplished with the DROP USER command. For example,
DROP USER newuser CASCADE;

will remove the user NEWUSER from the database along with any tables owned by NEWUSER. The word CASCADE can be left off if it is preferable to delete the tables manually before dropping the user. This can prevent accidentally dropping tables owned by NEWUSER and used by others. Resetting a password can be accomplished with the ALTER USER command:
ALTER USER olduser IDENTIFIED BY newpass;

This changes OLDUSER`s password to NEWPASS. 5.1.7.2 Defining/Using Roles The CREATE ROLE, ALTER ROLE, and DROP ROLE commands are used to create and remove roles. Information about these commands is available in the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual. This section will concentrate on maintenance of the existing PPDB roles. Whenever a table is added or removed from the PPDB, the corresponding privileges of the SELECT_ONLY and POWER_USER roles need to be updated. When a table is added, the roles need to be updated to grant privileges to those users assigned these roles:
GRANT SELECT ON newtable TO SELECT_ONLY; GRANT INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON newtable TO POWER_USER;

These statements grant privileges to the roles instead of individual users. Any user who has the role will automatically get the privilege. This is similar for revoking privileges. When a table is deleted, the privileges should be revoked.
REVOKE SELECT ON deletedtable FROM SELECT_ONLY; REVOKE INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE ON deletedtable FROM POWER_USER;

5.1.7.3 Creating Public Synonyms Public synonyms allow tables in other schemas to be referenced without specifying the schema. The full syntax of the CREATE SYNONYM and DROP SYNONYM commands is available in the OracleŽ Database SQL Reference 10g Release 2 manual. The important thing to know in the LTPP program is that most programs have been coded to assume that the tables are referenced by public synonyms. Therefore, anytime a table is added or removed, the corresponding public synonym should be created or deleted.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

69

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System The basic syntax to create a public synonym is as follows:
CREATE PUBLIC SYNONYM newtable FOR newtable;

Operations Manual

This allows the table to be reference by any user as if it were in their schema. To remove a synonym, the following command is used.
DROP PUBLIC SYNONYM deletedtable;

5.2 Software Performance Reports (SPRs)
Software Performance Reports (SPRs) have been used to document questions about and issues with the Regional Information Management System (RIMS) and all of its components since the beginning of the LTPP program. In addition, SPRs have been used to document new development for the LTPP Database and RIMS Application. SPRs can be submitted by regional or central users of the database system. Refer to the February 2010 version of the SPR database in the Reference Documents directory, described in Appendix A.13.

5.2.1 Log New SPR
When an SPR form is received from a regional office or a software issue is discovered by any LTPP team member, a new SPR record is created in the MS Access SPR database (e.g., SPRDB_VR20100218.mdb) as follows: 1. The SPR database file is opened (See Figure 40) 2. The SPR_Auto form (See Figure 41) is selected (double-click) from the list of Forms Objects 3. The last record is accessed by clicking the icon at the bottom of the window 4. The user notes the number of the last record, displayed in the SAICSPRNO field at the top of the form 5. A new record is added by clicking the icon and typing the next sequential number in the SAICSPRNO field 6. Using the TAB key to navigate to each field, the remaining fields are populated, if known. Field definitions are as follows: REGSPRNO (Regional SPR Number) ­ If the SPR was submitted by the region, put the SPR number that was assigned by the region in this field. Otherwise, put the SAIC number. ORG (Organization) ­ A single character or number that indicates which organization initiated the SPR. North Atlantic Region (Region 1) is 1, North Central Region (Region 2) is 2, etc., MACTEC is M, SAIC is S, FHWA, F, etc. PROG_NAME (Program Name) ­ Name of program that appears to have an issue. VERSION (RIMS Version) ­ Version of RIMS application in production when issue was discovered. DESC (Description of SPR) ­ Description of issue. RPT_BY (Reported by) ­ Name of person who discovered the issue.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 70 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

DATE_RECVD (Date Received) ­ Date the SPR was received by TSSC programming staff. REFER_TO (Referred to) ­ If resolution of issue requires TSSC engineering staff input, this field indicates to whom the SPR was referred. DATE_REFER (Date Referred) ­ Date that issue was referred. APPRVD_BY (Approved by) ­ Person from whom referral input and approval to proceed was received. DATE_APRVD (Date Approved) ­ Date that input and approval was received. ANALYST ­ Name of individual that completed update or correction. DATE_COMP (Date Completed) ­ Date that SPR was closed. RESOLUTION ­ Description of resolution of the issue. NOTES ­ Additional helpful notes. PRIORITY ­ Defaults to Med for Medium. Can be set to Low or High as applicable. MODULE ­ Indicates to which data module or utility the issue/change applies.

Figure 40. SPR Database Objects and List of Forms Once a new SPR has been created, an SPR form can be printed for the files by following the instructions in Section 5.2.3. Often, a form will be provided by the submitter, and there is no need to print another copy. Hardcopies of SPRs are kept in a notebook and are annotated with the resolution and status as they are addressed.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

71

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 41. SPR Auto form

5.2.2 Update Existing SPR
Once an SPR has been addressed or resolved, the corresponding record in the SPR database should be updated with the resolution and appropriate dates. To update a record in the SPR database, open the SPR_Auto form in the database as described in steps 1 & 2 of Section 5.2.1. The necessary SPR record can be accessed by clicking the right or left arrow icons at the bottom of the screen ( , ), or by holding down one of the buttons until the SPR record appears in the window. Changes and additions can be made to the record at this time. A summary of the resolution should be included, along with the names of the files updated or created in order to resolve the issue. The SPR is not considered complete or closed until a valid date is entered in the DATE_COMPLETE field. Changes are saved as the user moves to the next field or record.

5.2.3 Create Reports
Several reports have been designed and can display current data by merely doubleclicking on the specific report desired. For example, the SPR form can be generated and printed and the Software Change Notice included with software releases can be created. 5.2.3.1 SPR Form Once an SPR record has been created or updated, a hardcopy of the form can be printed by clicking on the Reports Objects and double-clicking on one of the SPR_Auto_Report reports (See Figure 42). The SPR_Auto_Report_fullpage report generates an SPR form with a fullpage for the SPR description. The halfpage report can be used for SPRs with short descriptions and resolutions.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

72

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 42. List of Reports 5.2.3.2 SPR Reports Several reports have been created to get a list of open or closed SPRs. The "Open PPDB SPRs by Module" Report is not date dependent. It merely creates a report of all SPRs that do not have a completion date and are not related to the LTAS program. The report is organized by data module or utility program (e.g., record count utility). The "Open Traffic SPRs" Report has all SPRs that are related to LTAS that do not have a completion date. This report is not date dependent. The "SPR Summary Report ­ PPDB & Traffic" is the report that used to be provided to all LTPP team members by fax so that everyone could see which SPRs had been completed since the last release and which were still open. This report is date dependent and the date of the last software release must be updated in the report query. See Section 5.2.3.4 for information about updating the report query. This report does not show the SPRs grouped by module/program but by organization and SPR number. This allows a region to look at which of their SPRs have been completed and which are still open. The "PPDB Summary Report by Module" is one of the most useful reports available and was originally intended to replace the older SPR Summary Report. It shows all

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

73

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

pertinent information about PPDB SPRs that have been closed since the last release and those that are still open. This report is date dependent and the date of the last software release must be updated in the report query. See Section 5.2.3.4 for information about updating the report query. This report is organized by module/program. 5.2.3.3 Software Change Notice (SCN) Report The SCN report is an important part of a software release, because it identifies all of the SPRs that have been closed since the last software release and what files have been created or modified in order to resolve the SPR. This report is date dependent and the date of the last software release must be updated in the report query to generate the correct list of SPRs. See Section 5.2.3.4 for information about updating the report query. 5.2.3.4 Report Query Updates In order to include the proper list of SPRs in several of these reports, the query that the report is based on must be updated with the date of the last software release. All of the queries used in reports are listed in the Queries Objects list. However, to find the one that pertains to a particular report, you must do the following: 1. Right click on the desired report from the list of Reports (see Figure 42) and select Design View from the drop-down list 2. In the upper left corner of the design view (see Figure 43), there is a black square; right click on the square and select Properties to see the report properties

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

74

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 43. Report design view 3. In the Data tab (see Figure 44), there is a property called Record Source; this is the name of the query selecting records for the report; click on the query name and you will see appear. Click on to see the query in the Query Builder window (see Figure 45) 4. You may change the view of the query by clicking on the View menu item at the top of the screen 5. Update the query as desired; test query by clicking the icon in the toolbar; save changes by clicking on the at the top of the screen 6. View updated report by clicking the icon in the toolbar

Figure 44. Report properties
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 75 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Figure 45. Query Builder view

5.3 Software Releases
Releases of updated LTPP software occur several times each year, as necessary. In particular, a software release will occur 4 weeks prior to each regional data upload. This ensures that the regional contractor has sufficient time to update data using software that may have been modified in response to a Software Performance Report (SPR).

5.3.1 Develop PPDB Software Release
LTPP programs are developed and updated based on SPRs submitted by various users. New or updated software might include data entry forms, data loaders, QC programs and/or utility programs. Other files that may be included in a software release are Oracle data files being transmitted to the regions (usually done for modules maintained centrally), SQL scripts to create and/or update tables, SQL scripts to correct data (usually after a data release), and SQL scripts to change or correct other miscellaneous items in the NIMS database system. 5.3.1.1 Update Software Software is updated for various reasons: specifications or requirements change, bugs are found or new functionality is desired. Every change initiates an SPR. When an SPR is received for any software/program, the software analyst determines if the issue is a change to the specifications or if a bug has been found. If the issue is initiated by a regional office and indicates a problem with the program, the analyst tests the program in the development environment to verify that the issue can be duplicated. Once the problem is duplicated, the analyst determines if the problem is a bug in the program or if the specifications need to be updated. If it appears that the specifications require update, the SPR is referred with recommended action to TSSC engineering staff who determine what should be done. Sometimes, the resolution requires a data or policy change rather than a change to the software.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

76

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.3.1.1.1 Update Data Entry Forms Oracle Forms and Reports 6i is the software used to update the current data entry forms. The data entry forms were originally programmed in SQL*Forms and have been converted over time to the current format. There are approximately 450 forms in the RIMS application. Data entry form source filenames end with .fmb; executable filenames end in .fmx. Current versions of the source code and executables are kept in a configuration management (CM) tool. PVCS Version Manager is the current CM tool. To update a form, the programmer does the following: 1. Check out of PVCS the source and executable files; files in PVCS will be locked and no one else will be able to change the files 2. Open the .fmb file in Oracle Forms and make appropriate changes; note changes in header of .fmb file 3. Generate a new executable 4. Copy updated executable into test environment 5. Run RIMS application and test form and updated functionality; verify that the problem reported in the SPR has been resolved 6. Perform regression testing by making sure other functionality has not been adversely affected, i.e., make sure the form still functions properly 7. Once testing is completed satisfactorily, check in to PVCS updated form, making appropriate comment about what changed When the next software release is created, all forms updated since the last release will be selected for distribution. 5.3.1.1.2 Update Data Loaders/QC Programs/Utilities Data loaders, QC programs and utilities are written in C++ and are updated using Visual C++ from Visual Studio .Net 2003. All files pertaining to a particular program are grouped in a directory named after the program. These directories are stored in a configuration management system, currently PVCS. In order to update one of these programs, the programmer does the following: 1. Check out of PVCS the entire directory structure for the program; files in PVCS will be locked and no one else will be able to change the files 2. Open the .sln (solution) file in Visual Studio; all associated .pc and .h files will be listed in the Solution Explorer window 3. Make appropriate changes; note changes in the header of the updated file 4. Save and compile the program 5. Test the program using the test.cmd file in the UnitTest directory; directions for using the test.cmd file are in the header of the file; verify that the problem reported in the SPR has been resolved 6. Once testing is completed satisfactorily, check in to PVCS the updated files in the directory structure for that program When the next software release is created, all programs updated since the last release will be selected for distribution.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 77 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.3.1.2 Create Update Scripts and Other Release Files Some SPRs require a SQL script to change something in the database ­ a code or an LTPP data dictionary (LTPPDD) description. The script is created with a header that gives the programmer`s name, the creation date, a description of the script`s purpose, and any special instructions required to run the script. SQL statements to spool the output to a file, those required to resolve the SPR issue, and commit and exit statements are then added to the script. When the script has been tested satisfactorily, the file is checked in to PVCS in the directory created for the next software release. 5.3.1.3 Identify CM Objects to Release (changed/created since last release) To create a software release, we need to identify all programs, utilities and SQL scripts that have been checked into the Configuration Management tool since the last release. We also want to verify that all programs that were checked out have been checked back in. Any programs/files that have not been checked back in will be locked. To get a list of locked programs, do the following in PVCS: 1. Click on top level project directory - IMS 2. Click on the Actions menu item; select Show History 3. On the Show History for Project - IMS window, click on the drop down box for Report Type; select list locked revisions and click on Include files in subprojects 4. Click OK at the bottom of the window and wait for PVCS to check all files in the IMS project for their lock status 5. The resultant report will be a list of the files that are locked and may not have completed the check-in process Once all programs with completed updates have been checked back into PVCS, all files updated since the last software release will be extracted into a temporary release directory, as follows: 1. Click on top level project directory ­ IMS 2. Click on the Actions menu item; select Get... 5.3.1.4 Create Data Export Files The Oracle Export (exp) utility is used to create exports of data being transmitted from the central production database to the regional databases. Such exports are often included in software releases because new tables have been added to the database and need to be populated or because table contents have been updated centrally. For example, to export all MNT% tables, type the following command at a DOS prompt:
exp dbuser/dbpw@imsprod file=MNT.dmp tables=(MNT%) statistics=none log=mnt.log

For help on additional export parameters, type exp help=y at the DOS prompt. 5.3.1.5 Create Release Batch File(s) A batch file (.bat) is provided with the release to do the following: export tables and data updated by the software release; execute the scripts included in the release; import data
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 78 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

distributed in Oracle .dmp files with the release. If the scripts or imports are regionspecific, a region number will be required to run the batch file. See Appendix E for a sample batch file. Note the header at the top that indicates when the file was created and by whom. There are also instructions about how to run the batch file and what parameters to include. The remaining lines are DOS command statements that could be typed separately at the DOS prompt. Since the TFHRC has begun maintaining a copy of the central database, it has sometimes been necessary to create a second batch file which is tailored to the TFHRC environment. Most of the time, it is a copy of the regional batch file which has been modified to load data which was sent to all four regions. Sometimes, there are scripts that are run centrally which have not been run at the regions which are added. These batch files are usually created towards the end of the software release process since that is the time that the list of scripts to be run and the tables affected are known. The normal process is to find an old batch file similar to the current requirements and edit it to generate the new batch file. Typically, the import/export sections and the script section is all that needs to be touched. Generally the scripts are run in alphabetical order, but care must be given to verify that there are no dependencies that require running the scripts in a different order. 5.3.1.6 Package Release The release is packaged by moving all of the files required by a release into a standard directory format and then zipping the subdirectories to produce the distribution files. The standard directory structure is shown in Figure 46.

Figure 46. Empty Release Directory Structure This directory is copied to a directory named for the release, VR 2009.07 for example. The versions in the subdirectory names are updated to match the current release. Then the files to be distributed are copied into the correct locations. The first LTPP, OracleVersions, and VRyyyy_mm directories are then zipped and copied to the SoftwareReleaseyyyymm directory (yyyymm is the release identifier). These ZIP files are then zipped together to produce the final distribution, SoftwareReleaseyyyymm.zip.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

79

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

The matter of finding all of the files which should be included in a release is a bit more complicated. Typically the process goes something like the following: Determine the date that the last release was generated. Normally we only want files which have changed since the previous software release. Then create an empty directory to hold all of the files changed since the previous release. This directory is populated by using PVCS to get all of the files changed since the last release date. Your new directory now contains a whole directory tree containing every file that has changed since the last software release. We are only interested in the executable files. To get this short list, the following command is used in a command window with the current directory set to your new directory.
Dir /s/b *.exe;*.bat;*.cmd;*.sql;*.fmx > CopyFiles.bat

This creates a new batch file with all of the candidate files for inclusion in the release. This file has to be edited to remove all of the files that we are not interested in such as the unit test and debug versions. Once the list of files has been cleaned up, the list is edited into valid DOS COPY commands. These COPY commands move the files from the temporary location created by getting the files from PVCS to the current release directory. 5.3.1.7 Create Release Documents 5.3.1.7.1 Draft Directive The TSSC provides a draft directive for FHWA to send to the regions, announcing the software release and giving an overview of its contents. The directive is in a standard format, and includes release instructions and the Software Change Notice (SCN) as attachments. (See Appendix D for a sample draft directive.) The previous draft directive is renamed and the following changes are made: 1. Update release number and date 2. Update paragraph with brief description of release contents 3. Update filenames and release delivery details 5.3.1.7.2 Release Instructions Instructions to apply the release to the regional databases are provided in a standard format as an attachment to the draft directive. Instructions from the previous release are renamed and necessary changes are made, including the following: 1. Update release number and date 2. Update alphabetic list of scripts executed by the batch file, including a brief description of each script 3. Include instruction about exported tables, if appropriate, and include a list of all tables exported 4. Update batch file execution statement with new batch file name and any required parameters (e.g., region number) 5. Include instruction about imported data, if necessary, and include a list of tables imported 6. Include any other non-standard instructions required for current release

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

80

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.3.1.7.3 Software Change Notice (SCN) The SCN is a report from the SPR database and is provided as Attachment 2 to the draft directive (see Appendix D). To create the current version of the SCN, see Section 5.2.3.3. 5.3.1.8 Validate Release Several steps are taken to validate the software release. A Release Checklist (see Appendix F) has been developed over time and includes pre-release, pre-QA approval and post-QA approval checklists. This check often generates SPRs to update peripheral utilities that are not identified in the original SPR work. Since the Software Change Notice (SCN) is generated from the resolutions of the completed SPRs, the SCN is compared against the list of executables and scripts included in the release to verify that each file distributed is documented. Individual SPR resolution statements may need to be updated to include the names of scripts, executables, or export files to make this check easier and to make the updates obvious to the regions. 5.3.1.9 Test Release Once the release files and documents have been created, the entire package is tested on both the development and test databases.

5.3.2 Apply PPDB Software Release
Once the regions have applied the software release to the regional databases, the release is applied to the central production database. These are the steps to apply the release centrally: 1. Verify a recent good backup 2. Consider which scripts and data imports do not need to be applied centrally; modify the batch file to exclude these scripts and imports 3. Open a DOS window 4. Follow the instructions provided with the release: type the line provided in the instructions at the prompt, using the LTPPDBA user and password on the production database 5. When the release is complete, review all list (.lis) files created by the scripts to verify that all completed successfully 6. Continue to follow instructions: copy and unzip the ltpp.zip file with all updated software into the LTPP client area on the server; old files will be overwritten 7. Follow any additional instructions provided

5.3.3 Develop LTPP Traffic Analysis Software (LTAS) Release
LTAS releases have several parts, similar to IMS software releases: a new executable, update scripts, and release documentation, including a draft directive, a list of software updates and installation instructions.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

81

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.3.3.1 Create New LTAS Executable LTAS is a C++ program that is updated with Visual C++ from the Visual Studio .Net 2003 software. The LTAS executable is made up of approximately 500 modules of source code. Due to the number of modules and the amount of time it takes to check these in and out of PVCS (CM tool), only the modules requiring updates are checked out and back in to PVCS. Once the individual modules are updated including appropriate comments in the code, the modules are saved and LTAS is recompiled in Visual C++. Once compilation is complete with no errors, the code is tested to verify that the new functionality or bug fix was successful and that no other problems have been introduced. All updated modules are checked back in to PVCS and the executable is provided to MACTEC for testing. 5.3.3.2 Create Database Update Scripts LTAS revisions often require a change to a database table structure, a code or an update to data. These changes are distributed to the regions in SQL scripts. See Section 5.3.1.2 for more information about creating these scripts. 5.3.3.3 Create Release Batch File If scripts need to be executed, or tables exported, a batch file will be created to perform these tasks. See Section 5.3.1.5 for more information about creating these batch files. 5.3.3.4 Create Release Documentation LTAS release documentation is very similar to IMS software release documentation and includes a draft directive with release instructions and a list of software updates as attachments. See TDP50_rel_ver_1_7_2_dft.doc located in the Referenced Files subdirectory for a sample LTAS Draft Directive.

5.3.4 Apply LTAS Software Release
Instructions for applying LTAS software updates are included in the directive that accompanies the release. There are two main steps: 1. Copy the new analysis.exe file over the previous version 2. Run the batch file which will execute necessary table exports and database upgrade scripts. This batch file will be run on the command line in a DOS window. See instructions for syntax which may vary by release

5.4 Regional Data Uploads
Regional data is uploaded periodically in order to prepare the central production database for a public data release. Annual data releases have been supported by annual or semiannual data uploads. The schedule of data uploads is determined by FHWA with input from the TSSC. Two weeks before the upload date, the TSSC distributes export scripts, batch files and instructions for the regions to follow. In preparation for the upload, central database staff perform the tasks described in the following sections. All executables referenced in the upload instructions have been tested on a Windows XP 32-bit system with a 32-bit Oracle 9i Client as of July 1, 2010. Other operating systems and Oracle versions have not been tested.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 82 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.4.1 Confirm good backup of production database
Once each backup is complete, the system administrator (SA) should review the backup logs and verify that the backup completed successfully and that there were no errors that would cause problems restoring the database. Before continuing with the data upload, database staff should check with the SA to make sure a recent good backup of the database is available.

5.4.2 Create an Empty Upload Directory Structure
All data files associated with the data upload will be collected into a standard directory structure. In order to do this, the database staff should do the following: 1. Make a copy of the EmptyUploadDirectoryTemplate directory in the RegionalUploads directory server 2. Rename the copy yyyymmdd, where yyyymmdd is the official date of the upload (1st Tuesday in August typically)

5.4.3 Run record counts before data upload
Tracking the count of records at each record status level in each table is helpful in doing an overall QA of the data upload process. Sometimes, data problems can be identified by a table having no records or having significantly more or fewer records than expected. Therefore, it is helpful to have a count of the records in each table and by region to compare to the counts after the data is uploaded. To run the record count program on the existing data: 1. Verify that BEG_REGION in QA_SELECT is 1 and END_REGION is 4. Modify as needed. 2. Open a command prompt window in the RegionalUploads\Bin directory 3. Type the following command:
RecordCounts dbaUN/dbaPW@db releasedate Before

where dbaUN is the dba username, dbaPW is the dba password, db is the database instance (e.g., IMSProd), and releasedate is the official date of the release in yyyymmdd format (used in the directory structure, see section 5.4.2, step 2). Before is case-sensitive. 4. This will create two files in the RegionalUploads\yyyymmdd\NIMSRecordCounts\Before directory: BeforeByRegion.lis and BeforeByTable.lis 5. These files can be imported into an Excel spreadsheet; they show how many records in each table are at level A, B, C, D and E. If a table has zero records, all records are at A, or many records are not at E, the history of this data/table should be considered.

5.4.4 Clone the IMSProd Database to IMSTest
Cloning the production instance at this point in the process allows database staff to go back to a pre-upload copy of the data to compare and contrast once the new data has been loaded. See Section 5.1.2 for details of the cloning process
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 83 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.4.5 Verify Regional Media and Organize Uploaded Data
When data uploads are received from the regions, it is important to verify the contents of each upload and that all media are readable. The regions will need to know ASAP if new media is required so that the upload is not delayed. Once database staff has verified that all data files are readable, uploaded files should be copied into the upload directory structure, as follows, where # is the region number. Some files are not given standard, descriptive names. Therefore, you may have to open the files to see what is in them: 1. All CTDB data (CTDBExport##.dmp) and log files go into the RegionalUploads\R#\CTDB directory 2. All other dump files (*.dmp) go into the RegionalUploads\R# directory 3. Regional record count output goes into the RegionalUploads\R#\Countlogs directory 4. Regional CN output files go into the RegionalUploads\R#\CNlogs directory 5. Export logs go into the RegionalUploads\R#\ExportLogs directory 6. Downgrade scripts go into the RegionalUploads\R#\Downgrade directory 7. Other sql scripts go into the RegionalUploads\R#\SQL directory Once the file copy is complete, unzip any compressed data files. If required, create duplicates of traffic upload files (CTDB, LTAS, IMS TRF) and send these files and the CTDB flat files (usually provided on a separate drive or disc) to the TSSC traffic engineer.

5.4.6 Review Selected Upload Files
CN output files and record count output files can indicate data problems. These files should be reviewed by the regions, but can also be reviewed centrally, if time allows. Check for the following when reviewing CN output files: 1. Output for each table will include either a list of sections that had changes or a statement that No sections had changes 2. Output for each table will include total number of records, number of records with correct CN, number of records with wrong CN, number of records that had CN updated, number of records with wrong CN that did not have CN updated 3. The total number of records should equal either the number of records with correct CN or the number of records with correct CN plus the number of records with updated CN. Other combinations of counts need to be investigated. Contact regions with questions When reviewing record count output: 1. Look for tables that have many records at RS < E 2. Look for tables with 0 records 3. Contact regions with questions Review the export logs: 1. Check each module for extraction of all requested tables (generally all)
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 84 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System 2. Verify that there were no errors on exporting.

Operations Manual

5.4.7 Update Upload Processing Files
Three batch procedures have been created to automate the loading of the regional data: StartUploadProcess.sql, LoadRegion.cmd and FinishUploadProcess.sql. These files must be updated for each regional upload since the database changes between uploads and upload files vary between releases. The StartUploadProcess.sql procedure has several parts: it disables constraints between tables, disables database triggers, and truncates the tables to be loaded. LoadRegion.cmd is a collection of import statements for each module of data in the database. The FinishUploadProcess.sql procedure reverses these actions after the data has been loaded. Follow these steps to update these files: 1. Open/Edit the RegionalUploads\bin\StartUploadProcess.sql file: a. Disable any new constraints/foreign keys that could cause trouble while loading data b. Disable database triggers that might fire when data loaded into database c. Comment out truncate statements for tables that are not being uploaded from the regions d. Add truncate statement for any new tables being uploaded from the regions 2. Open/Edit the LoadRegion.cmd file: a. Verify that modules no longer imported from the regions are not imported. All tables may be exported even if they will not be imported. There needs to be consistency between truncations and imports. Note: the INV tables are no longer imported, but the SECTION_COORDINATES table is in the INV export file, so this table is specified in the import statement b. Verify that only the tables needed from each .dmp file are loaded (see previous Note) 3. Open/Edit the RegionalUploads\bin\FinishUploadProcess.sql file: a. Enable constraints and triggers disabled in the StartUploadProcess.sql file (see previous step)

5.4.8 Process Upload
Once these procedures have been updated, they will be executed as follows: 1. Run StartUploadProcess from the RegionalUploads\bin directory in a DOS window using the following command:
StartUploadProcess dbaUN/dbaPW@database upload_date

where upload_date is the official upload date in yyyymmdd format. 2. Review the output file (RegionalUploads\bin\upload_date\StartUploadProcess.lis) for errors: a. Scroll through the entire output file and verify that all constraints were disabled successfully (Table altered.) b. Verify that all triggers were disabled (Trigger altered.)

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

85

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

c. Verify that the cluster (Cluster truncated.) and all tables were truncated successfully (Table truncated.) 3. Run LoadAllRegions.cmd from the RegionalUploads\bin area in a DOS window using the following command:
LoadAllRegions dbaUN/dbaPW@database upload_date

where upload_date is the official upload date in yyyymmdd format. This procedure calls the LoadRegion.cmd once for each region, and LoadRegion.cmd imports the data from each Oracle .dmp file. 4. Review all import log files: a. Review files in the RegionalUploads\upload_date\R#\ImportLogs directory, where # is the number of each region b. Compare the import files to the related export files in the RegionalUploads\ upload_date \R#\ExportLogs directory; any discrepancies must be investigated c. Verify that all regional data loaded as expected (Note: Each FWD_IMP.LOG file, except Region 1, will have some rows rejected from the MON_DEFL_BUFFER_SHAPE table. This is expected.) 5. Run FinishUploadProcess from the RegionalUploads\bin directory in a DOS window using the following command:
FinishUploadProcess dbaUN/dbaPW@database upload_date

where upload_date is the official upload date in yyyymmdd format. 6. Review the output file (RegionalUploads\bin\upload_date\FinishUploadProcess.lis) for errors: a. Scroll through the entire output file and verify that all constraints were enabled successfully (Table altered.) b. Here is an example of something that could happen: In upload 20080805: the FK_TST_AC01_LAYER_AC01 constraint did not re-enable. Correct the data and re-enable the constraint as follows: i. Copy the script UpdateTST_AC01_TEST_NO into the LTPP\SQL directory (create it if it doesn`t exist) ii. In a DOS window in the LTPP\SQL directory, type:
sqlplus dbaUN/dbaPW@database

iii. at the SQL prompt, type:
@UpdateTST_AC01_TEST_NO

iv. To re-enable the constraint, type the following on one line:
ALTER TABLE TST_AC01_LAYER ENABLE CONSTRAINT FK_TST_AC01_LAYER_AC01;

c. Verify that all triggers were enabled (Trigger altered.)
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 86 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.4.9 Run record counts after data upload
In order to compare before and after record counts, this is a good time to run the record counts on the new data: 1. Open a command prompt window in the RegionalUploads\Bin directory 2. Type the following command (case sensitive):
RecordCounts dbaUN/dbaPW@db upload_date After

3. This will create two files in the RegionalUploads\20080805\NIMSRecordCounts\After directory: AfterByRegion.lis and AfterByTable.lis 4. These files can be copied into the same Excel file, new worksheet, as used for the Before counts; create a third worksheet with the differences between the before and after counts so it is easy to compare for each table 5. Review differences in counts to get an idea if there are problems with any of the tables/data 6. Contact regions with any questions Send completed record count spreadsheet to appropriate TSSC staff; include record count for COMMENTS_GENERAL in body of email. This table does not have the record_status field, so it is not included in the record counts spreadsheet.

5.4.10 Additional Data Processing
At this point, there may be additional processing required to prepare the data for the data release. For the 20080805 upload, for example, it was necessary to run the CN Assign scripts on the data and to rerun the QC on selected data modules. Here are instructions for these activities: 5.4.10.1 Run CN Assign on all data 1. If a correction to the CN utilities is required, open a DOS window in the LTPP\CN directory and run the following command:
sqlplus dbaUN/dbaPW@database @CNUtilities

This command updates the stored procedure in the database that sets the CN for each record/table in the database. 2. Update the CN in all tables by running the AssignCN.bat file on one line from a DOS prompt (on the server or through Terminal Services) as follows:
AssignCN connect_string table_wildcard output_filename (html_flag) Example: AssignCN user/pass@inst sps1% sps1_cn.html

This example will set the CN for all tables beginning with SPS1`. To update CN on all tables, use the following command:
Example: AssignCN user/pass@inst % LTPP_cn.html

Refer to Section 4.4 for complete instructions for running the CN assign utility.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

87

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Note: This only affects tables that have the CONSTRUCTION_NO field.

Operations Manual

5.4.10.2 Run QC on SMP CP data The regional offices should run the QC on all data in their database. If the data needs to be updated or if the region forgets, here is an example of how to run QC.
Example 4. Run SMP QC on all SMP computed parameters (CP) tables:

1. Open a DOS window in the LTPP\QC directory and update Record Status to A in all SMP CP tables, using the script ResetCPToLevelA.sql and the following command:
sqlplus dbaUN/dbaPW@database @ResetCPToLevelA

2. In the DOS window, set the environment variable that causes the QC program to include record counts by typing the following (case sensitive):
set TSRecordCounts=TRUE

3. In the same DOS window, run the following two batch files that QC the SMP CP data by typing the following commands:
tdrqc dbaUN/dbaPW@database

This batch file runs the TDRManualQC program which QC`s the SMP_TDR_MANUAL_MOISTURE table
smp_cp_qc dbaUN/dbaPW@database

This batch file runs the SMP_C, SMP_D, SMP_E programs on only the SMP CP tables: SMP_FREEZE_STATE, SMP_FROST_PENETRATION, SMP_FROST_PRESENCE, SMP_TDR_AUTO_CALIBRATION_TLE, SMP_TDR_AUTO_DIELECTRIC, SMP_TDR_AUTO_MOISTURE, SMP_TDR_AUTO_MOISTURE_TLE, and SMP_TDR_MOISTURE_SUPPORT 4. Once all QC has been run, it is important to review the QC output files to verify that data has moved through the QC levels as expected. (See Section 4.6)

5.4.11 Correct Data Errors
Once the data has been provided to TSSC engineering staff, there will be scripts to apply to the data and possibly a re-upload of selected data modules from the regions. It is critical that these corrections be applied in the correct order. Usually, re-uploaded modules will be imported before correction scripts are applied.

5.5 Central Data Loads
Much of the LTPP data is collected and processed at the regional sites, but some data is loaded and maintained centrally. Some is loaded centrally and then sent to the regions for QC processing. Climate (CLM) data is an example of data that is loaded and maintained centrally.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

88

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.5.1 Computed Parameters
After the regional upload and data corrections, some computed parameter (CP) data is calculated by the TSSC and loaded into the database. 5.5.1.1 Transverse Profile and Faulting CP Data Transverse profile (once called Rut) and faulting CP data is recalculated after each upload and goes through the QC process centrally, as follows: 1. Provide the following tables to TSSC engineering staff in an Access database named CP_TABLES: EXPERIMENT_SECTION MON_DIS_JPCC_FAULT MON_T_PROF_MASTER MON_T_PROF_PROFILE SECTION_LAYER_STRUCTURE SPS_PROJECT_STATIONS 2. Receive data files with newly calculated CP data from TSSC engineering staff. This data will be loaded into the MON_DIS_JPCC_FAULT_SECT table and the MON_T_PROF_INDEX_POINT and MON_T_PROF_INDEX_SECTION tables 3. Copy jpccfalt.exe and tprfclod.exe from the LTPP\BIN directory to the RegionalUploads\upload_date\CP directory 4. To load the fault CP data into the MON_DIS_JPCC_FAULT_SECT table, run the jpccfalt loader program as follows:
jpccfalt JpccFilename dbaUN/dbaPW@database

where JpccFilename is the name of the file with the provided fault CP data. 5. Review RegionalUploads\upload_date\CP\jpcc.log to verify that the data records loaded successfully 6. To load the transverse profile CP data into the MON_T_PROF_INDEX tables, run the tprfclod loader program as follows:
tprfclod TProfCPFilename dbaUN/dbaPW@database

where TProfFilename is the name of the file with the provided transverse profile CP data. 7. Review RegionalUploads\upload_date\CP\rutcp.log to verify that the data records loaded successfully 8. Run QC on only the MON_DIS_JPCC_FAULT_SECT table as follows:
disqc_cp_only dbaUN/dbaPW@database

9. Run QC on only the MON_T_PROF_INDEX tables as follows:
tprofqc_cp_only dbaUN/dbaPW@database

10. Review all QC output files 11. Create a zip file with all JPCC fault sect QC output files and one with all MON_T_PROF QC output files and email to TSSC engineering staff for review.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

89

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

5.5.1.2 TRF_MEPDG CP Data The TRF_MEPDG tables and the TRF_ESAL tables are also computed parameters that are recalculated with every upload. The TRF_MEPDG tables are computed, processed and exported using the process described in Traffic Data for LTPP Distribution which is included in the LTAS User Guide/Bookshelf, referenced in Appendix A.5. The TRF_MEPDG tables require only LTAS tables for computation. The QC is run via SQL script. The tables are exported and provided by a TSSC Engineer for loading. They are loaded via an import statement.
imp ltppdba/dbapwd@imsprod file= mepdgfilename full=y ignore=y log=trf_mepdg_imp.log

5.5.1.3 TRF_ESAL CP Data The TRF_ESAL tables are handled as follows: 1. Provide the following tables to the designated TSSC Engineer in an Access database named ESALCalc_Inputs: CLM_VWS_PRECIP_ANNUAL CLM_VWS_TEMP_ANNUAL EXPERIMENT_SECTION SPS7_PCC_OVERLAY TRF_MONITOR_AXLE_DISTRIB TST_AC07_MR_V2_SUM TST_L05B TST_UG07_SS07_WKSHT_SUM 2. Accept the computed values back to load into the following tables: TRF_ESAL_INPUTS_SUMMARY TRF_ESAL_COMPUTED TRF_ESAL_AC_THICK TRF_ESAL_PCC_COMP_THICK TRF_ESAL_DRAINAGE_COEFF 3. Import the tables using an import statement
imp ltppdba/dbapwd@imsprod file=esalcalcfilename full=y ignore=y log=trf_esal_imp.log

4. Review the log to verify all the data imported correctly 5. Run ESALCalcQC.exe 6. Check the QC output and bring any issues up with the TSSC Engineer

5.6 Standard Data Releases (SDRs)
The steps to creating the Standard Data Release have evolved over the years. The steps listed below describe the current process.

5.6.1 Update Data Dictionary and Table Dictionary
Verify that the Table Dictionary (LTPPTD) and the Data Dictionary (LTPPDD) are updated with any new tables:

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

90

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

1. In SQLPlus Worksheet, perform select statements to verify that any/all new tables have been added to the LTPPDD table. 2. Run script PopulateLtppTd.sql to create an updated version of the LTPP Table Dictionary based on the tables that are currently in the PPDB.

5.6.2 Update SDR master tables
1. Acquire the current Data Release Tables spreadsheet (updated by TSSC for each data release) and import it into an Access Table called DATA_RELEASE_XX_TABLES; where XX is the number of the data release. 2. Verify spelling and disposition of newest tables in the DATA_RELEASE_XX_TABLES table. Only the fixed database tables are included in this table since this table is used in creating the LTPPDD and LTPPTD extractions. The tables which are subsets of state data should be created in the CUSTSUPP schema and will not have individual entries in the LTPPDD and LTPPTD tables. 3. Export DATA_RELEASE_XX_TABLES (all caps!) into an Oracle table, in the custsupp schema (custsuppUN/custsuppPW@imsprod) 4. Optional: Run script CreateDataReleaseXXTD_DD.sql to create release specific LTPPTD and LTPPDD (this is not necessary, if using the Data Extraction Application, but you may want a copy ) 5. Add any tables to TD and DD that are to be included in the release but are not in the Central PPDB (for release 22, this included the MEPDG tables; for release 25 this included the ESAL tables) 6. The STANDARD_DATA_RELEASE table in the custsupp schema maps each database table to its Access database module. To update this table: a. Include any new tables added to this release. Update list of tables for each module according to policy changes or release changes (e.g., for SDR23, removed LTPPDD and LTPPTD and Codes tables from all modules except Administrative. These will now only be distributed in the Administrative module. Also for SDR23, reorganized SMP module and Traffic module.) Tables are added twice, once for the data module and once for the skeleton database (database of empty tables). Updates may be done through the Enterprise Manager console (Schema\CUSTSUPP \Tables, select STANDARD_DATA_RELEASE and left click to bring up the menu box to select the View/Edit Contents option.) Records can be added or modified graphically. Deleting records must be done using the free SQL rather than the graphical mode. b. Update/add agency (state_code) divisions for very large tables. The sizing of the tables may be estimated roughly by using the number of records times the sum of the DATA_LENGTH values for each field in the record as found in DBA_TAB_COLS. Database sizes must be under 2GB total. c. Add any tables that split data within a state between databases. These tables are only added to the data module and not to the skeleton database. 7. Verify that the new tables will be accessible to the extraction program. a. All new tables must belong to the LTPPDBA or TRFDBA schema and only to that schema.
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 91 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

b. All new tables which are subsets of larger tables must be indexed. c. All new tables must have public synonyms. d. The SELECT role has been granted to the SELECT_ONLY role for each table.

5.6.3 Update SDR extraction program
Since the SDR extraction program was written as an internal tool, it does require some changes and a recompile to process each data release correctly. This is necessary because the SDR program limits the rows extracted for the LTPPDD and LTPPTD tables to the tables included in the release. Since we load a spreadsheet containing this information into a new table each data release, we have to update the table name and column name. The statements that need to be updated are located in the populateData subroutine of ExtractStandardDataRelease.cpp. Using VisualStudio 2003, open ExtractStandardDataRelease.sln and look for the LTPPDD and LTPPTD if statements. Change the table name and the column name in the select statement to match the values for the current data release. Then recompile the program. Replace the executable and DLLs on the server with the new executable and DLLs produced. An example of the changed lines is provided below.
else if (String::Equals(tableName, "LTPPDD")) { selectStatement = "SELECT * FROM ltppdba.ltppdd WHERE tablename IN (SELECT table_name FROM custsupp.data_release_23_tables WHERE DR23 = 'Y')"; } else if (String::Equals(tableName, "LTPPTD")) { selectStatement = "SELECT * FROM ltppdba.ltpptd WHERE tablename IN (SELECT table_name FROM custsupp.data_release_23_tables WHERE DR23 = 'Y')"; }

Figure 47. ExtractStandardDataRelease.cpp before change
else if (String::Equals(tableName, "LTPPDD")) { selectStatement = "SELECT * FROM ltppdba.ltppdd WHERE tablename IN (SELECT table_name FROM custsupp.data_release_24_tables WHERE DR24 = 'Y')"; } else if (String::Equals(tableName, "LTPPTD")) { selectStatement = "SELECT * FROM ltppdba.ltpptd WHERE tablename IN (SELECT table_name FROM custsupp.data_release_24_tables WHERE DR24 = 'Y')"; }

Figure 48. ExtractStandardDataRelease.cpp after change

5.6.4 Execute SDR extraction program
1. Copy all files from the FHWAUpload\Extraction directory into the LTPP\Extraction directory on CentralIMS (create it if it doesn`t exist). This includes ExtractStandardDataRelease.exe and related .dll files. (InteropADODB.dll, InteropADOX.dll, Interop.JRO.dll)
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 92 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

2. Run the extraction application for the entire data release from a DOS window in the LTPP\Extraction directory, using the following command:
ExtractStandardDataRelease dbaUN/dbaPW@DB <dest_path>

where <dest_path> can be . for the current directory or any full or relative path to the target directory. 3. To extract one data module, include the name of the Access database at the end of the command. For example, for the Administration module (stored in the Administration.mdb database) use the following command:
ExtractStandardDataRelease dbaUN/dbaPW@DB <dest_path> Administration.mdb 4.

To extract a group of data modules, prepare a batch file (.cmd) with an extraction command for each module in the group. Running multiple batch files can reduce the duration required to extract all the data although individual extractions will be slower when multiple extractions are running at the same time.

5.6.5 Review SDR databases for correct content
Begin by reviewing the log files generated by the extraction program. Possible errors in the SDR will be easier to spot here. Then, open each of the databases in MS Access and review for correct content: 1. Start with Administrative.mdb database and verify that the LTPPDD and LTPPTD tables have the tables and fields you expect 2. Do a spot review on each database to verify that the correct number of tables exists; that each table has the correct number of records; that each table has the appropriate index; and that each field has a description (in the design view). The number of records for tables in a module that are not split by state should be the same as the number of records extracted (see extraction logs). However, that assumes that the extraction program was successful. A spot review of some tables should still be done. For tables split by state, a count in SQL worksheet is required. Tables split by state should also be checked to verify the states contained are those expected. 3. Rename any tables that were split within a state with the underlying table name.

5.6.6 Compress SDR databases
In order to fit the Standard Data Release (SDR) onto one DVD, the databases must be compressed. WinZip has been used to compress the Access databases in the past. To use WinZip, verify that it is installed on the server being used to create the SDR. The person compressing the files should be sitting at the server or using a terminal services window so that WinZip will run on the server and not on the workstation. It may also be necessary to compact (MS Access database utility) the databases before zipping them to reduce the amount of space used on the distribution DVD.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

93

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Verify that each Access database is named properly. For example, the database with the codes tables and EXPERIMENT_SECTION should be named Administration.mdb. To compress the Administration.mdb file, right-click on the file and select WinZip from the list of choices. Another list of choices will appear; select Add to Administration.zip. Repeat for each Access database.

5.6.7 Organize SDR Files into Volumes burn DVD media
The final step in preparing the SDR is to organize the databases into volumes. The directory structure for the DVD master should be the following: Volume 1 ­ Primary Data Set Administration.zip Auto_Weather_Station.zip Climate_Daily_Humid_Wind.zip Climate_Daily_Precip.zip Climate_Daily_Temp.zip Climate_Summary_Data.zip Dynamic_Load_Response.zip Ground_Penetrating_Radar.zip Inventory.zip Maint_Rehab.zip Material_Test.zip Monitoring.zip Seasonal_Monitoring.zip Seasonal_Monitoring_MRCTemp.zip Specific_Pavement_Studies.zip Folder: Read Me ReleaseNotesR##.doc; where ## is the release number Folder: Table Navigator Current Table Navigator installation files Volume 2 ­ FWD Measurements FWD_Data_Without_Drop_Data.zip FWD_Drop_Data_States AL_ID.zip FWD_Drop_Data_States IL_MO.zip FWD_Drop_Data_States MT_TN.zip FWD_Drop_Data_States TX_SK.zip Volume 3 ­ Profile Data Profile_Data_States_AL_AZ.zip Profile_Data_States_AR_CA.zip Profile_Data_States_CO_HI.zip Profile_Data_States_ID_IA.zip Profile_Data_States_KS_MI.zip Profile_Data_States_MN_MO.zip Profile_Data_States_MT_NM.zip
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx 94 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Profile_Data_States_NY_OK.zip Profile_Data_States_OR_TN.zip Profile_Data_States_PR_SK.zip Profile_Data_States_TX.zip Profile_Data_States_UT_VA.zip Profile_Data_States_WA_WY.zip Volume 4 ­ Traffic Data Traffic.zip TRF_MEPDG_Ax_Dist_AL_ID.zip TRF_MEPDG_Ax_Dist_IL_ME.zip TRF_MEPDG_Ax_Dist_MD_MO.zip TRF_MEPDG_Ax_Dist_MT_TN.zip TRF_MEPDG_Ax_Dist_TX_SK.zip Volume 5 ­ LTAS Data Annual_Traffic_AL_MS.zip Daily_Axles_AL_AR.zip Daily_Axles_CO_DE.zip Daily_Axles_IA_LA.zip Daily_Axles_IL.zip Daily_Axles_ME_MA.zip Daily_Axles_MN.zip Daily_Axles_MS.zip Daily_Axles_NJ_ND.zip Daily_Axles_OR_UT.zip Daily_Axles_WA.zip Daily_Axles_QP_SK.zip Daily_Count_ERR_AL_IN.zip Daily_Count_ERR_OK_SK.zip Daily_GVW_AL_AR.zip Daily_GVW_DE_IL.zip Daily_GVW_MI_MO.zip Daily_GVW_OH_VA.zip Daily_GVW_WV_SK.zip Hourly_Class_Counts.zip Monthly_Axle_AL_CA.zip Monthly_Axle_MD_NH.zip Monthly_Axle_WA.zip Monthly_Count_ESAL.zip Monthly_GVW_AL_MO.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_AL_AR.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_CO_ID.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_IL_IN.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_MT_NM.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_TX_VA.zip
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

Operations Manual

Annual_Traffic_MO_SK.zip Daily_Axles_CA.zip Daily_Axles_FL_HI.zip Daily_Axles_ID.zip Daily_Axles_IN.zip Daily_Axles_MI.zip Daily_Axles_MO.zip Daily_Axles_MT_NH.zip Daily_Axles_OH_OK.zip Daily_Axles_VT_VA.zip Daily_Axles_WV_PEI.zip Daily_Count_ERR_IA_OH.zip Daily_GVW_CA_CT.zip Daily_GVW_IN_MA.zip Daily_GVW_MT_ND.zip Daily_GVW_WA.zip

Monthly_Axle_CO_ME.zip Monthly_Axle_NJ_VA.zip Monthly_Axle_WV_SK.zip Monthly_GVW_MT_SK.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_CA.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_IA_MA.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_MI_MO.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_NY_TN.zip STAT_QC_A_AX_WA.zip
95 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

STAT_QC_A_AX_WV_SK.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_AL_AR.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_CA.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_CO_IL.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_IN_LA.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_ME_MO.zipSTAT_QC_BC_Tables_MT_NY.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_NC_UT.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_VT_VA.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_WA.zip STAT_QC_BC_Tables_WV_SK.zip Traffic_Administration.zip Traffic_Skeleton.zip Folder: Data_User_Documents Data Users Reference Guide for the LTASDB Folder: LTAS Navigator Current LTAS Table Navigator Installation Files Folder: Traffic_Skeleton_Database Database with empty data tables and complete structure of LTAS DB

5.6.8 Print and Burn DVD media
The SDR master DVD should have a label printed directly on the DVD. The design should include the SDR version number, the creation date of the master and the version of the database from which the SDR was created. The DVD media should be formatted. Once the DVD has been written, it should be tested on multiple computers to verify readability.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

96

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix A.
A.1

Reference Documents

PPDB User Guide

The PPDB User Reference Guide gives the user an in-depth look at all of the data modules and most of the tables in the Pavement Performance Database. This document should be the data analyst`s best friend. The version distributed with SDR 23 is located in the Reference Document subdirectory. (User_Guide_December_2008.pdf)

A.2

QC Manual

This manual documents all of the QC checks to which the LTPP data is subject through the QC programs. The last distributed version is dated 11/17/2008 and can be found in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (qcmanual_20081117.pdf)

A.3

Accessing LTPP Data

This document is intended to provide tips to MS Access users on how to effectively use Access to analyze LTPP data. It includes Access tips and tricks and tidbits about the LTPP data. The most recent version of this document is in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (AccessingLTPPData SDR25.pdf)

A.4

LTPP Traffic Software Installation Guide

This document summarizes the installation and maintenance of LTPP traffic software. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (TRF_Software_Installation_2009_06.pdf)

A.5

LTAS User Guide/Bookshelf

The 2008 version of the LTAS User Guide can be found in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (Analysis Vol_1-0_2008_07_18.pdf) In addition, a description of other LTAS documentation is included in the LTAS Bookshelf (LTPP_Traffic_Bookshelf_2006_05_25.pdf) and current versions of these documents can be requested from LTPP Customer Support.

A.6

LTPP IMS Engineer Workguide

This document describes the tasks performed by the TFHRC On-Site Database Engineer, including backup and recovery procedures followed, as well as the data submittal provided annually to FHWA. This document is maintained by the On-Site Engineer and is available upon request.

A.7

HRD-LTPP Server Setup Document

This document describes the process to setup the newest LTPP server at TFHRC. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (HRD-LTPPServerSetup2009061.doc)

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx A-1

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

A.8

Regional Server Setup Document

This document describes the initial setup process used for the regional servers in 2002. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (LTPP Server Config Ins_20020401.doc)

A.9

LTPP Server Upgrade to Oracle 9.2

This document describes the upgrade of the regional servers to Oracle 9.2 in 2003. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (Upgrade Oracle 9.0.1.1 to 9.2.0.3b.doc)

A.10

LTPP Upgrade to Oracle 10g

This document describes the process that the TSSC and the regions used to configure the servers for Oracle 10g and create the production PPDB and non-production LTAS DB. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (LTPP Upgrade to Oracle 10g_ppdb_trf.doc)

A.11

RIMS User Guide

This document provides an overview of the Regional Information Management System (RIMS) used by the Long-Term Pavement Performance (LTPP) Regional Contracting Offices (RCO) to process data collected for the pavement performance database. This document covers elements of the RIMS application including loading data into the regional database through filter programs or entry forms, performing quality checks on the data, and uploading the data to the central pavement performance database. It is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (RIMSUsersGuide.pdf)

A.12

Source Code Inventory

This document was created to give an inventory of all source code developed at SAIC in the course of working on the LTPP contracts since 1989. The source code is kept in a configuration management system (PVCS) that is organized by logical groupings of programs. The Table of Contents mirrors this directory structure. Individual programs are listed in the body of the document in its respective group. For example, QC programs are written in Pro-C, so they are in the IMS\PC\QC directory. This document is located in the Reference Documents subdirectory. (LTPPSourceCodeInventory_20091129.doc)

A.13

SPR Database

The SPR Database is an Access database that has all SPRs from mid-1993 to the present. Earlier SPRs were kept in hardcopy and are now in electronic form for easy searching. The SPR Database includes dates that the SPR was received, referred, and completed; it includes a description and a resolution; and it includes the originating organization. Several reports are available from the Access Reports list. This document is located in the Reference Documents directory. (sprdb_vr20100218.mdb)

A.14

Directive GO-48

This document provides information about AIMS electronic data format, submission standards, and dates. It is located in the Reference Documents directory. (GO_48.pdf)
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx A-2 Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix B.
Level C QC Output

Sample QC Output Files

Shown below are the first and last pages of Level C output for CLM tables. To review the complete file, refer to clm_c.lis, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx B-1

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

This is the last page of the level C QC output for CLM. The first table of statistics shows the number of records read for each table. It also shows how many errors were found in each table. The second table is very wide and only a piece of it is shown here. This table shows the distribution of records among each QC level (A, B, etc.) before QC was run, after QC was run and the difference between the before and after counts. For a complete version of this file, reference clm_c.lis, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

B-2

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Level D QC Output
Shown below are select pages of the Level D output for CLM tables. To review the complete file, refer to clm_d.lis, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

B-3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

B-4

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

The last page of the level D output is similar to the last page of the level C output. The first set of statistics indicates how many records were read and processed from each table and how many errors were found in each table. The second set of statistics shows how many records were at level A, B, C, etc. before and after the QC was run.

Level E QC Output
Shown below are select pages of the Level E output for CLM tables. To review the complete file, refer to clm_e.lis, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

B-5

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

B-6

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix C. Instructions

Sample Regional Upload

From: Thompson, Travis [TRTHOMPSON@mactec.com] Sent: Tuesday, July 21, 2009 7:15 PM To: Gabe Cimini; Linda McDonald; Veena Prabhakar; jane.jiang@fhwa.dot.gov Cc: Gary Elkins; Frank Meyer; Jonathan Groeger; Kevin Senn; Mark Gardner; Aramis Lopez; Jack Springer; Pitz, Miriam J; Clark, Tommy R; Larry Wiser; Barbara Ostrom Subject: August 2009 LTPP Upload Instructions This message contains instructions for the August 4, 2009 upload of data from the Regional Pavement and Traffic Databases to the Central Databases. The MON_DRAIN_PERM_MEAS and MON_DRAIN_PERM_CALC tables have been added to the MON_DRAIN_EXP.PAR export script. The upload scripts can be downloaded from the FTP.LTPP.ORG ftp site. They are in the AUG_09_UPLOAD Directory. These scripts are contained in two ZIP files; PPDBExportScripts.zip and CTDBExportScripts.zip. Please contact Tommy Clark or Miriam Pitz at SAIC for technical assistance with extraction and upload. Contact FHWA on policy and contractual issues. UPLOAD INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Copy ZIP files to a convenient folder. 2. Extract files from the ZIP files. The password for each file is indicated in the file name. 3. Run EXP_TAB.BAT using an appropriate PPDB connect string such as: username/password@servicename. This will create the export DMP files from the Pavement Database. 4. Run the TrafficAnalysisExport.BAT file using an appropriate Traffic Database connect string. This will create the export DMP files from the traffic database for import into the Central Pavement Database. 5. Run the CTDBExport.BAT file using an appropriate Traffic Database connect string and a region number, in that order. This will extract a series of DMP files from the Traffic Analysis Database, not to exceed 1 GB each, for import into the Central Traffic Database.

IMSOpsManual_v2.docx C-1

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

6. After extracting the data, do not make any changes to the regional databases until the TSSC can verify the integrity of the upload. This should take approximately 1 week. 7. Copy the following items, onto CD-ROM or DVD. Label the media to indicate its content, date, and region of origin.
ˇ Oracle DMP files from steps 3, 4, and 5 above. ˇ Oracle export log files. Upload Report following the format contained in Directive I-128. ˇ Record counts, by table name and RECORD_STATUS, for all tables included in the upload. ˇ The output files from the last time CN assignment was performed prior to the upload. ˇ All SQL scripts used to manually downgrade RECORD_STATUS.

8. Copy the ASCII classification and weight files output from the traffic QC software, which are used as inputs to the traffic analysis software, ALL OUTPUTS FROM LTAS USING Load files option (files prefixed with L) onto a series of CD-ROMs/ DVDs using the directory/subdirectory data storage structure created by the traffic QC OR LTAS software respectively. Submit either a copy of new files and previously submitted files which have been changed since the last upload, or a new set of all files. Place these files on a set of CDs/ DVDs separate from those containing the files specified in step 7. This may require multiple CD-ROMs/DVDs from each region. These files will be imported into the Central Traffic Database. Label all CDs/DVDs to indicate their content, date, LTAS software version, and region of origin. Please contact Barbara Ostrom with questions about this step in the upload process. 9. Perform random checks on the read integrity of CD-ROMs/DVDs prepared for file transport. 10. Create cover letter listing contents of upload package. 11. Ship all CD-ROMs/DVDs and cover letter to the Technical Support Services Contractor and a copy to FHWA so that they arrive by August 4, 2009. : Miriam Pitz Science Application International Corporation 151 Lafayette Drive Oak Ridge, TN 37831 Yan Jiang Federal Highway Administration Office of Infrastructure R&D Turner Fairbanks Highway Research Center HRDI-30
IMSOpsManual_v1.docx C-2 Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System 6300 George Town Pike McLean, Virginia 22101 (202) 493-3149 Jane.Jiang@fhwa.dot.gov

Operations Manual

12. Ship or transmit contents of the upload report to FHWA: Jack Springer Federal Highway Administration Office of Infrastructure R&D Turner Fairbanks Highway Research Center HRDI-30 6300 George Town Pike McLean, Virginia 22101 (202) 493-3153 Jack.Springer@fhwa.dot.gov Copy: Larry Wiser (same address) Larry.Wiser@fhwa.dot.gov If these instructions need further clarification or correction, you may contact me as well... Travis Thompson MACTEC Engineering and Consulting, Inc. (775) 326-5373 Phone (775) 322-9280 Fax

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

C-3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix D. Sample Directive for IMS Software Release
(Includes instructions to apply release and first two pages of SCN 103) LONG TERM PAVEMENT PERFORMANCE PROGRAM DIRECTIVE

For the Technical Direction of the LTPP Program

Program Area: IMS Date: April 24, 2009

Directive Number: I-142 Supersedes: I-141

Subject: IMS Software Release Version 2009.04
This directive authorizes implementation of the IMS software upgrade from version 2008.12 to 2009.04. Upgrade instructions are provided in Attachment 1. Please notify the FHWA and TSSC when the upgrade has been installed. Software Change Notice 103, contained in the file, SCN_103.pdf, lists all of the changes made to the IMS software since the last software release. This notice shall be filed in the Operator`s Log. This software update contains new drainage tables and QC for permeability measurements and calculations; updated TRF Sheet 16 data tables, codes and data entry forms; and updated CN assignment procedure. In addition, several other modified QC programs are included. The Software Change Notice lists these and other miscellaneous changes. The software update for Version 2009.04 is distributed in a master zip file, SoftwareRelease200904.zip. This file may be downloaded from the VR2009_04 directory on the ltpp.org ftp site.

D-1

LTPP Information Management System The following files are contained in the master file: 

Operations Manual

 

VR2009_04.ZIP ­ A zip file with the batch file (VR2009_04.BAT) and scripts needed to make miscellaneous updates to the database and to run other related administrative commands. Refer to the table included in Attachment 1 for an alphabetic list and descriptions of the scripts called by this batch file. LTPP.ZIP - A zip file with all files to go in the LTPP area (and subdirectories) on the server. OracleVersions.ZIP ­ A zip file with listings of all Oracle files and versions loaded on the server at the central site. These are included for reference only. Approved by: Aramis López LTPP Team Leader

Prepared by: TSSC

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

D-2

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Attachment 1. Instructions to Apply VR 2009.04 Release 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Create the subdirectory RELEASES\VR2009_04.

Operations Manual

Copy and unzip the VR2009_04.zip file into the subdirectory created in step 1. Shutdown ORACLE in normal mode and backup Server. Bring ORACLE up. From the DOS prompt in the RELEASES\VR2009_04 directory, regions type:
VR2009_04 dbausername/dbapassword@instance #

where # is the number of your region (1, 2, 3, 4), to begin the software update. FHWA types:
VR2009_04_ALL dbausername/dbapassword@instance

The batch file will export several tables that are updated or populated by the release scripts. Be sure to review the VR2009_04ReplacedTables_exp.log file to verify that the exports completed successfully. Keep the export file (VR2009_04ReplacedTables.dmp) until you are satisfied that all changes were successful. If the export is successful, the batch file will run the scripts listed alphabetically in Table 1, below. 6. The scripts create new tables and codes, update tables and codes, and update data. Check carefully that all scripts completed successfully by reviewing the *.lis files (refer to list, below). Ignore errors about dropping non-existent objects. In addition, compare the import log file (VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion#_imp.log) with the export log file (VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion#_exp.log) provided for your region to verify that all records were imported successfully. Copy the LTPP.ZIP file into the LTPP subdirectory. Right-click on the filename and choose Extract to Here to unzip the file into the LTPP subdirectory. Answer Yes to all to overwrite existing files. Delete the LTPP.ZIP file. The OracleVersions.zip file is included for reference only. Extract these files into the OracleVersions directory. It will create an OracleVersions\VR200904 subdirectory.

7.

8.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

D-3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Table 1. Scripts run from the VR2009_04.bat file Script and Output Filenames (.sql & .lis) ResetRecordStatus_0904 SPR2379UpdateRollerCodes Updates record status in table TST_SS06 to D` due to new level E check: TST_SS06-E-3. Updates RHB_HEATER_SCARIF table to use ROLLER_CODE codetype in each of the *_ROLLER fields; updates data, LTPPDD, and CODES tables Changes TST_SP01_DATA.BULK_SPEC_GRAV_RAW to allow nulls Left pads the data in the MON_DEFL_TEMP_VALUES.TIME_LAYER_TE MP field with 0` where the length of the value is less than 4 characters Add table comment to COMMENTS_REVIEW table Updates coded data in TRF_EQUIPMENT_MASTER.REASON_CALIB, TRF_CALIBRATION_WIM.WIM_CALIB_TECHN IQUE, and populates new field TRF_EQUIPMENT_MASTER.TRF_CALIBRATIO N_PROTOCOL Adds field TRF_EQUIPMENT_MASTER. TRF_CALIBRATION_PROTOCOL, updates data dictionary and CODES tables Creates new drainage tables for permeability measurements and calculations: MON_DRAIN_PERM_CALC and MON_DRAIN_PERM_MEAS; populates data dictionary Description

SPR3384UpdateTstSp01Data

SPR3465LeftPadTimeValue

SPR3846AddTableComment SPR3855UpdateTrfData

SPR3855UpdateTrfSheet16

SPR3859CreateMonDrainPerm Tables

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

D-4

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

Attachment 2. Software Change Notice (SCN) 103 (Pages 1 & 2)

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

D-5

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

For the entire SCN 103, refer to SCN_103.pdf in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

D-6

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix E. Batch File
@REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM @REM

Sample Software Release

------------------------------------------------------------------------ VR2009_04 ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Tommy Clark -- Science Applications International Corporation -- P.O. Box 2501 -- Oak Ridge, TN 37831 -- (865) 425-2305 -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Upgrade the IMS to version VR 2009.04. --VR2009_04 Oradba/Orapass@IMSProd # --Where, -Oradba - PPDB schema user -Orapass - Password for Oradba -IMSProd - PPDB Instance -# - Region Number --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Date SPR Who Description -- ---------- ---- --- ---------------------------------------------- 04/21/2009 TRC Initial Version ------------------------------------------------------------------------

@REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@REM -- Check Parameters @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@IF '%1' == '' GOTO NOCONNECT @IF '%2' == '' GOTO NOREGION @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@REM -- Export Data @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------EXP %1 FILE=VR2009_04ReplacedTables.DMP LOG=VR2009_04ReplacedTables_exp.LOG TABLES=(codes,codetypes,ltppdd,mon_defl_temp_values,rhb_heater_scarif,rhb_pma_r oller,trf_equipment_master,trf_calibration_wim,tst_sp01_data) STATISTICS=NONE @IF ERRORLEVEL 1 GOTO :ABORT :APPLYCHANGES @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@REM -- Run Scripts to create and update tables @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------sqlplus %1 @SPR2379UpdateRollerCodes.sql sqlplus %1 @SPR3384UpdateTstSp01Data.sql sqlplus %1 @SPR3465LeftPadTimeValue.sql

E-1

LTPP Information Management System
sqlplus sqlplus sqlplus sqlplus %1 %1 %1 %1 @SPR3846AddTableComment.sql @SPR3855UpdateTrfSheet16.sql @SPR3855UpdateTrfData.sql @SPR3859CreateMonDrainPermTables.sql

Operations Manual

sqlplus %1 @CNUtilities.sql @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@REM -- Import Data @REM -@REM -- The dump files were created with the following commands. @REM -@REM -- exp ltppdba/dba4imsdev@imsdev indexes=n constraints=n triggers=n statistics=none tables=(mon_drain_perm_meas,mon_drain_perm_calc) query=\"where state_code in (select state_code from regions where region_code = 1)\" file=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion1.dmp log=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion1_exp.log @REM -- exp ltppdba/dba4imsdev@imsdev indexes=n constraints=n triggers=n statistics=none tables=(mon_drain_perm_meas,mon_drain_perm_calc) query=\"where state_code in (select state_code from regions where region_code = 2)\" file=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion2.dmp log=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion2_exp.log @REM -- exp ltppdba/dba4imsdev@imsdev indexes=n constraints=n triggers=n statistics=none tables=(mon_drain_perm_meas,mon_drain_perm_calc) query=\"where state_code in (select state_code from regions where region_code = 3)\" file=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion3.dmp log=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion3_exp.log @REM -- exp ltppdba/dba4imsdev@imsdev indexes=n constraints=n triggers=n statistics=none tables=(mon_drain_perm_meas,mon_drain_perm_calc) query=\"where state_code in (select state_code from regions where region_code = 4)\" file=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion4.dmp log=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion4_exp.log @REM -@REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------IMP %1 FILE=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion%2.dmp LOG=VR2009_04MonDrainPermRegion%2_imp.log TABLES=(*) COMMIT=Y IGNORE=Y GRANTS=N CONSTRAINTS=N @GOTO :EOF @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@REM -- Report Error @REM ----------------------------------------------------------------------@:ABORT @Echo ___An error has occured while exporting the tables to be updated. @Echo *** The update scripts have NOT been applied. *** @GOTO :EOF @:NOCONNECT @Echo ___The connect string can not be blank. @Echo *** The update scripts have NOT been applied. *** @GOTO :EOF @:NOREGION @Echo ___The region number can not be blank. @Echo *** The update scripts have NOT been applied. *** @GOTO :EOF

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

E-2

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix F.

Release Checklist
LTPP Release Checklist

(Refer to RELCHK_2010.doc, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.)

CM Release Coordinator: _________________________________________________ QA Representative Approving Release: _____________________________________ Approval Date: __________________________________________________________ Release Memo/Notification File Name: _______________________________________

PRIOR TO RELEASE: Grants/Synonyms/Table Comments for new or revised tables Filter or Form for new/revised tables or modules QC Program for new/revised tables or modules DE Application Data Dictionary for new/revised tables or modules QC Manual for new/revised tables or modules Codes Tables for new/revised tables or modules Browser Schema Upload Scripts for new/revised tables or modules Section Maintenance Program (Sectmant) for new tables without state_code/shrp_id Nimslog for new modules Record Count Program for new tables without state_code/shrp_id CN Assign for new/revised modules SHRP_DATA_SHEETS Table for new forms Version number in SHRPRIMS form Layer Maintenance Program for new tables without state_code/shrp_id Constraints/DB Triggers for new tables/modules Paths Table for new module with filter program Check that any modules closed don`t include tables that we still need to upload Check export/import parameter files, start/finish upload scripts, etc.

YES NO

F-1

LTPP Information Management System

Operations Manual

PRE-QA APPROVAL:

YES NO

1. Is the Software Change Notice created, reviewed, and converted to pdf format? 2. Has the customer provided a directive number for the release? 3. Is the Draft Directive created, reviewed, and approved addressing all of the
following:

Version # SCN # Current Date Directive # Verified File list 4. Have the installation instructions been created, reviewed, and approved with the
correct version number and correct list of scripts?

5. Has the table listing the current software versions of required tools for customer
workstations been created, reviewed, and approved with the correct data? 6. Has the following documentation been put into a zip file: Draft Directive Software version table SCN Release Installation Instructions Other release documents 7. Have the following directories of software code files been put into zip files: LTPP BIN QC SQL 8. Have any/all necessary Oracle .dmp files been created and if necessary zipped? 9. Have any/all necessary batch files been created? 10. Have all revised support program executables (Record Count, Schema, etc.) been included?

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

F-2

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System
POST-QA APPROVAL: Date All Checklist Activities Completed: _____________________ 1. Has the draft directive been sent?

Operations Manual YES NO

2. Have the release files (see #11 above) been stored in the CM library and
appropriately labeled?

Summary/Comments:

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

F-3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Instructions for use of Release Checklist

Operations Manual

This checklist is used for release to the CM Production Baseline. It both supports CM efforts to make sure that all CM release activities are completed and provides a vehicle to record QA inspection of the release. CM Release Coordinator: Name of CM staff member responsible for release. QA Representative Approving Release: Individual acting as QA to perform final inspection of the release. Approval Date: Date upon which QA approves the release. Release Notification and Version Description Documentation File Name: File name of the release notification and version description document describing this release.

PRIOR TO RELEASE:
Verify that the all the items in this section have been updated or indicate N/A in the YES box to indicate the item was researched and it was determined that no action was needed. If an item is not updated prior to release, indicate the internal SPR number opened to track the issue to completion.

PRIOR TO QA APPROVAL:
All activities in this section should be completed before QA is asked to do a final inspection to approve the release. CM may use these items to check readiness for release but for the final version used to actually provide VOE for the release, QA must complete this section. Items 1-9: Check the appropriate response.

POST APPROVAL:
The activities in this section are not appropriate until the release has been approved. However, they are all important to preserve release records and properly disseminate the release. CM will complete this section to make sure that they are completed. Date All Checklist Activities Completed: CM will fill in this date to indicate that all activities associated with the release have been completed. Items 1-4: Check the appropriate response. Summary/Comments: Use to record any special considerations with respect to the release.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

F-4

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix G. Procedures

Sample Regional Backup
CHAPTER 9
IMS QC PLAN

Backups Backups for the WRSC server and LTPP network are performed routinely on a weekly basis. These backup tapes are stored in a bank vault. Prior to backup of the server, the oracle database will be shutdown. After the backup is performed, the backup log is checked for any errors. If any errors are found, they will be recorded in the backup log and investigated to correct the error. There are four sets of backup tapes kept at the vault. They are used on a rotating basis. Only one set will be in the office at any given time, the other three will be kept in the vault. After the number of usages (time) specified by the tape manufacturer, the existing tape will be replaced by a new one with the same name. Additionally, backups will be done on a quarterly basis - in March, June, September, and December of each year. The quarterly tapes will also be stored in a bank vault. A log will be kept in the operations logbook showing the date of backup, the tape name, and any comments relevant to that backup.

G-1

Appendix H.

Sample Record Count Report

The first and last pages of Record Count Report #5 are shown below. To see a complete report, refer to the file AfterByTable.lis, located in the Referenced Files subdirectory.

Last Page...

H-1

Appendix I. Messages
Code N/A Text SYSTEM NAME

Dell PE 2900 LCD Status
Causes A 62-character string that can be defined by the user in the System Setup program. The SYSTEM NAME displays under the following conditions: The system is powered on. The power is off and active POST errors are displayed. Corrective Actions This message is for information only. You can change the system string in the System Setup program. See Using the System Setup Program.

E1000 FAILSAFE, Call Support E1114 Temp Ambient E1116 Temp Memory Ambient system temperature is out of acceptable range.

See Getting Help. See Troubleshooting System Cooling Problems.

Memory has exceeded See Troubleshooting System acceptable temperature and Cooling Problems. has been disabled to prevent damage to the components. CMOS battery is missing, or the voltage is out of acceptable range. RAID battery is either missing, bad, or unable to recharge due to thermal issues. Specified voltage regulator has failed. See Troubleshooting the System Battery. Reseat the RAID battery. See Replacing the SAS RAID Controller Daughter Card Battery, and Troubleshooting System Cooling Problems. See Getting Help.

E1210 CMOS Batt

E1211 ROMB Batt

E12nn XX PwrGd

I-1

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes

Operations Manual Corrective Actions

E1229 CPU # VCORE

Processor # VCORE See Getting Help. voltage regulator has failed. See Troubleshooting System Cooling Problems. Check control panel LCD for additional scrolling messages. See Troubleshooting System Cooling Problems.

E1310 RPM Fan ## RPM of specified cooling fan is out of acceptable operating range. E1313 Fan Redundancy The system is no longer fan-redundant. Another fan failure will put the system at risk of over-heating.

E1410 CPU # IERR Specified microprocessor is See your system's Information reporting a system error. Update Tech Sheet located on support.dell.com for the most current system information. If the problem persists, see Getting Help. E1414 CPU # Thermtrip Specified microprocessor is out of acceptable temperature range and has halted operation. See Troubleshooting System Cooling Problems. If the problem persists, ensure that the microprocessor heat sinks are properly installed. See Troubleshooting the Microprocessors. NOTE: The LCD continues to display this message until the system's power cord is disconnected and reconnected to the AC power source, or the SEL is cleared using either Server Assistant or the BMC Management Utility. See the Dell OpenManage Baseboard Management Controller User's Guide for information about these utilities. E1418 CPU # Presence Specified processor is See Troubleshooting the missing or bad, and the Microprocessors. system is in an unsupported configuration Processors are in a configuration unsupported by Dell. Ensure that your processors match and conform to the type described in the Microprocessor Technical Specifications outlined in your
Thursday, December 16, 2010

E141C CPU Mismatch

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-2

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes

Operations Manual Corrective Actions system's Getting Started Guide.

E141F CPU Protocol E1420 CPU Bus PERR E1421 CPU Init

The system BIOS has reported a processor protocol error. The system BIOS has reported a processor bus parity error. The system BIOS has reported a processor initialization error.

See Getting Help.

See Getting Help.

See Getting Help.

E1422 CPU The system BIOS has Machine Chk reported a machine check error.

See Getting Help.

E1610 PS # Missing No power is available from See Troubleshooting Power the specified power supply; Supplies. specified power supply is improperly installed or faulty. E1614 PS # Status No power is available from See Troubleshooting Power the specified power supply; Supplies. specified power supply is improperly installed or faulty. Power supply voltage is out See Troubleshooting Power of acceptable range; Supplies. specified power supply is improperly installed or faulty. Power source for specified power supply is unavailable, or out of acceptable range Power source for specified power supply is unavailable, or out of acceptable range The power supply subsystem is no longer Check the AC power source for the specified power supply. If problem persists, see Troubleshooting Power Supplies. Check the AC power source for the specified power supply. If problem persists, see Troubleshooting Power Supplies. See Troubleshooting Power Supplies.

E1618 PS # Predictive

E161C PS # Input Lost

E1620 PS # Input Range

E1624 PS Redundancy

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-3

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes redundant. If the last supply fails, the system will go down. E1710 I/O Channel Chk The system BIOS has reported an I/O channel check error.

Operations Manual Corrective Actions

See Getting Help.

E1711 PCI PERR The system BIOS has B## D## F## reported a PCI parity error on a component that resides in PCI configuration space PCI PERR at bus ##, device ##, Slot # function ##. The system BIOS has reported a PCI parity error on a component that resides in PCI slot #. E1712 PCI SERR The system BIOS has B## D## F## reported a PCI system error on a component that resides in PCI configuration space PCI SERR at buss ##, device ##, Slot # function ##. The system BIOS has reported a PCI system error on a component that resides in slot #.

Remove and reseat the PCI expansion cards. If the problem persists, see Troubleshooting Expansion Cards. If the problem persists, the system board is faulty. See Getting Help.

Remove and reseat the PCI expansion cards. If the problem persists, see Troubleshooting Expansion Cards. If the problem persists, the system board is faulty. See Getting Help.

E1714 Unknown Err The system BIOS has See Getting Help. determined that there has been an error in the system, but is unable to determine its origin. E171F PCIE Fatal The system BIOS has Err B## D## reported a PCIe fatal error F## on a component that resides in PCI configuration space at bus ##, device ##, PCIE Fatal function ##. Err Slot # The system BIOS has Remove and reseat the PCI expansion cards. If the problem persists, see Troubleshooting Expansion Cards. If the problem persists, the system board is faulty. See Getting Help.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-4

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes reported a PCIe fatal error on a component that resides in slot #. E1810 HDD ## Fault E1811 HDD ## Rbld Abrt E1812 HDD ## Removed E1913 CPU & Firmware Mismatch E1A10 PBD Pwr Cable The SAS subsystem has determined that hard drive ## has experienced a fault. The specified hard drive has experienced a rebuild abort. The specified hard drive has been removed from the system. The BMC firmware does not support the CPU.

Operations Manual Corrective Actions

See Troubleshooting a Hard Drive.

See Troubleshooting a Hard Drive. If the problem persists, see your RAID documentation. Information only.

Update to the latest BMC firmware. See the BMC User's Guide for more information on setup and use of BMC. Ensure that the power distribution board power cable is seated properly. If the problem persists, replace the power distribution board power cable. See Installing the Power Distribution Board. Check the cable connection to the SAS backplane. See Cabling the SAS Backplane Boards. Check the cable connection to the SAS backplane. See Cabling the SAS Backplane Boards. Check the cable connection to the SAS backplane. See Cabling the SAS Backplane Boards. Check the power cable connection to the flex bay backplane. See Installing the 1x2 Flex Bay Drive Bracket. Ensure that the power distribution board control cable is seated properly. If the problem persists,

The power distribution board power cable is unseated, missing, or bad.

E1A14 SAS Cable A SAS cable A is unseated, missing, or bad. E1A15 SAS Cable B SAS cable B is unseated, missing, or bad. E1A16 SAS Cable FB E1A17 Pwr Cable FB Flex bay SAS cable is unseated, missing, or bad. Flex bay power cable is unseated, missing, or bad.

E1A18 PDB Ctrl Cable

The power distribution board control cable is unseated, missing, or bad.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-5

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes

Operations Manual Corrective Actions replace the power distribution board control cable. See Installing the Power Distribution Board.

E2010 No Memory

No memory is installed in the system.

Install memory. See Memory.

E2011 Mem Config Memory detected, but is not See Troubleshooting System Err configurable. Error detected Memory. during memory configuration. E2012 Unusable Memory E2013 Shadow BIOS Fail E2014 CMOS Fail Memory is configured, but not usable. Memory subsystem failure. The system BIOS failed to copy its flash image into memory. CMOS failure. CMOS RAM not functioning properly. DMA controller failure. See Troubleshooting System Memory. See Troubleshooting System Memory. See Getting Help.

E2015 DMA Controller

See Getting Help. See Getting Help. See Getting Help. See Getting Help. See Getting Help. See Getting Help.

E2016 Int Controller Interrupt controller failure. E2017 Timer Fail E2018 Prog Timer E2019 Parity Error E201A SIO Err E201B Kybd Controller E201C SMI Init Timer refresh failure. Programmable interval timer error Parity error. SIO failure.

Keyboard controller failure. See Getting Help. System management interrupt (SMI) initialization failure. See Getting Help.

E201D Shutdown Test E201E POST Mem Test

BIOS shutdown test failure. See Getting Help. BIOS POST memory test failure. See Troubleshooting System Memory. If problem persists, see Getting Help.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-6

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Code Text Causes Dell remote access controller (DRAC) configuration failure.

Operations Manual Corrective Actions Check screen for specific error messages. Ensure that DRAC cables and connectors are properly seated. If problem persists, see your DRAC documentation.

E201F DRAC Config

E2020 CPU Config E2021 Memory Population E2022 POST Fail

CPU configuration failure. Incorrect memory configuration. Memory population order incorrect. General failure after video.

Check screen for specific error messages. Check screen for specific error messages. See Troubleshooting System Memory. Check screen for specific error messages.

E2110 MBE DIMM One of the DIMMs in the See Troubleshooting System ## & ## set implicated by "## & ##" Memory. has had a memory multi-bit error (MBE). E2111 SBE Log Disable DIMM ## The system BIOS has See Troubleshooting System disabled memory single-bit Memory. error (SBE) logging, and will not resume logging further SBEs until the system is rebooted. "##" represents the DIMM implicated by the BIOS. The system BIOS has See Troubleshooting System spared the memory because Memory. it has determined that the memory had too many errors. "## & ##" represents the DIMM pair implicated by the BIOS.

E2112 Mem Spare DIMM ##

E2113 Mem Mirror They system BIOS has See Troubleshooting System DIMM ## & disabled memory mirroring Memory. ## because it has determined that one half of the mirror has had too many errors. "## & ##" represents the DIMM pair implicated by

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-7

Thursday, December 16, 2010

LTPP Information Management System Code Text the BIOS. E2118 Fatal NB Mem CRC Causes

Operations Manual Corrective Actions

One of the connections in See Troubleshooting System the Fully Buffered DIMM Memory. (FBD) memory subsystem link on the Northbound side has failed. One of the connections in See Troubleshooting System the FBD memory Memory. subsystem link on the Southbound side has failed. System cover has been removed. LCD overflow message. A maximum of three error messages can display sequentially on the LCD. The fourth message displays as the standard overflow message. Information only. Check the SEL for details on the events.

E2119 Fatal SB Mem CRC

I1910 I1911

Intrusion >3 ERRs Chk Log

I1912

SEL Full

System Event Log is full of Clear the log by deleting event events, and is unable to log entries. any more events. Warns predictively that the RAID battery has less than 24 hours of charge left. Replace RAID battery. See Replacing the SAS RAID Controller Daughter Card Battery.

W1228 ROMB Batt < 24hr

NOTE: For the full name of an abbreviation or acronym used in this table, see the Glossary.

IMSOpsManual_v1.docx

I-8

Thursday, December 16, 2010

Appendix J. Document
AIMS CN CPU CTDB IMS LTAS LTO LTPP NIMS PPDB RIMS SAS SATA SPR SDR UPS VA KB MB GB TB KiB MiB GiB TiB

Acronyms Used in this

Ancillary Information Management System Construction Number Critical Patch Update Central Traffic Database Information Management System LTPP Traffic Analysis Software Linear Tape Open Long-Term Pavement Performance National Information Management System Pavement Performance Database Regional Information Management System Serial Attached SCSI Serial ATA Software Performance Report Standard Data Release Uninterruptible Power Supply Volt Amp Kilobyte Megabyte Gigabyte Terabyte Kibibyte Mebibyte Gibibyte Tebibyte

J-1

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 1 Page 1 of 5 Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management Billing Instructions Cost Reimbursement Contracts 1. Introduction

Reimbursement procedures related to negotiated cost-type contracts involving the preparation and submission by Contractors of properly prepared vouchers to the Government. These instructions are provided for the use of Contractors in the preparation and submission of vouchers requesting reimbursement for work performed under the contract. The submission of vouchers as suggested herein will keep the correspondence and other causes for delay to a minimum and will thus assure prompt payment to the Contractor. 2. Forms to be Used

In requesting reimbursement, Contractors are urged to use the regular Government voucher forms, "Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal," SF-1034* (Exhibit A), and "Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal - Continuation Sheet," SF1035* (Exhibit B). The Contractor may also use its own forms, provided the Contractor's forms follow the format of SF-1034 and SF-1035. *Offeror may contact Robin Hobbs for a copy of these documents, if needed. The documents are not included in the electronic version of the RFP. 3. Preparation

Each billing shall be prepared in an original and two copies, arranged in two parts as follows, and submitted at intervals as specified by the terms of the contract. Each billing must be sequentially numbered, beginning with one (1) for each contract. Billings for different contracts may not be co-mingled on a single billing. Part I - Summary of All Costs (See Exhibit A Attached) This portion consists of a listing of cost elements for each CLIN, by general categories, i.e., direct labor, overhead, etc., showing the amounts incurred during the period covered by the billing. The reimbursement costs incurred, and the dates for the period for which billing is made, must fall within the period as set forth in the contract.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 1 Page 2 of 5 The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for support service contracts: "I certify that the hours and/or materials identified are allocable to the job being billed and that the costs are justified as attributable solely to the performance of this Government contract." The Contractor shall include the following signed certification for all other cost reimbursement contracts other than support services: "I certify that all payments requested have been incurred, are allocable to this contract and have not been billed previously." Part II - Details of Direct and Indirect Costs: This part consists of a detailed statement of direct and indirect costs and supports each category of costs shown in Part I. The Contractor shall include a breakdown for the current billing period and cumulative totals since contract execution. The detailed information to be continued in Part II is to assist the Contracting Officer and program office personnel in verifying voucher vis-ŕ-vis contract performance. The categories of costs should be itemized and described as follows: a. Direct Labor Direct labor costs consist of salaries and wages paid for scientific, technical, and other work performed pursuant to the terms of the contract and shall be billed as follows: List employees whose salaries or wages, or portions thereof, were charged to the contract; show the name, title, rate, days (or hours) worked and amount for each individual. Indicate if the labor rates include fringe benefits. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as a direct cost at a percentage of total labor costs, show the rate and amount as a separate item. If it is the Contractor's established practice to treat fringe benefits as an indirect cost, such costs shall be billed separately as an indirect cost item. The cost of direct labor charged directly to the contract shall be supported by time records maintained in the Contractor's office. NOTE: Fringe benefits, bonuses, etc., are usually treated as indirect costs for inclusion in the overhead pool; however, they may be treated as direct labor costs or as "Other Direct Costs" if this treatment is in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 1 Page 3 of 5 Premium pay is the difference between the rates normally paid on a straight time basis, and amounts paid for overtime or shift work. Such pay is not included in the direct labor and shall not be included in the billing for "direct labor" unless the Contractor has permission to utilize premium rates. Unless provided for in the contract, premium pay must be authorized by the Contracting Officer in advance. Billings for unauthorized premium pay cause delays in payment due to suspensions and exchange of correspondence. Citations to authorizations for premium pay will avoid delays in payment. Authorized premium pay may be shown in Part I as a single item; in Part II it must be separately itemized for each position or job category showing the amount and a citation of the Contracting Officer's letter of authorization. If there is an annual escalation clause for direct labor in the contract, these rates shall not be exceeded in the billings. b. Materials and Supplies Only those items which the Contractor normally treats as "direct costs" shall be claimed under this heading. Items costing less than $25 should be listed by category of materials or supplies (e.g., film, rentals, office supplies). Materials and supplies which exceed a unit price of $25 should be billed separately. Show the description and dollar amount of individual items. All materials and supplies charges must be supported by the Contractor's records. c. Other Direct Costs NOTE: Other direct costs represent expenses related directly to the contract, provided such expenses are consistently treated as direct costs rather than indirect costs. d. Travel When authorized in the contract as a direct cost, travel costs directly related to specific contract performance may be billed as a direct cost. Travel costs detail in Part II shall include: 1. Name of traveler and official title. 2. Purpose of trip.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 1 Page 4 of 5 3. Dates of departure and return to starting point (station or airport). 4. Transportation costs, identified as to rail, air, private automobile (including mileage and rate) and taxi. 5. Unless otherwise authorized, travel costs will be reimbursed based on DOT Travel Regulations. This regulation provides for CONUS Per Diem reimbursement prescribed by GSA. Current regulation limits first and last days of travel to 3/4 Per Diem for each day. If travel is made at other than economy fares, a statement shall be included indicating the reason for the deviation. Also, a copy of the air or rail ticket shall be included. e. Consultant Fees Part II of the voucher shall include the consultant's name, rate, number of days or parts of days and the total amount of charges. f. Subcontract Payments The voucher shall include the name of the subcontractor and the total amount of charges, supported by a breakdown by elements of cost. g. Equipment Nonexpendable equipment must be identified, showing name of article, make, model, number of units, unit cost, and total cost. h. Indirect Costs Pending the establishment of final negotiated indirect rates for the Contractor's fiscal year or period of contract, whichever is applicable, indirect costs, i.e., overhead, fringe benefits and general and administrative expense must be billed at rates set forth in the contract. Rates can be changed during performance of the contract only by contract modification. When the rates are changed, the Contractor shall show revised rates on succeeding vouchers. i. Fixed-Fee Fixed-Fee is to be billed in accordance with the terms of the contract.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 1 Page 5 of 5 j. Cost of Money If applicable, cost of money shall be billed at rates set forth in the contract. k. Withholding Indicate the amount of cost/fee to be deducted from the cost subtotal, along with the percentage of withholding, as set forth in the contract.

DTFH61-011-R-00026 Attachment No. 2 Page 1 of 2 SAMPLE FORMAT PRICE PROPOSAL BUDGET SUMMARY Please provide on a yearly basis I. DIRECT LABOR
{List each proposed individual or labor category (insert additional lines if needed). Indicate if escalation is included and how it is applied. Please provide a budget summary for each task.}

Staffing

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Estimated Cost

Total Direct Labor II. LABOR OVERHEAD Overhead Rate: III. SUBCONTRACTOR
Direct Labor:

Estimated Cost:

Staffing

Estimated Hours

Hourly Rate

Estimated Cost

Total Direct Labor Overhead Rate: Other Direct Costs:
Travel:

G&A Rate: Fee: Total Estimated Cost:

DTFH61-08-R-00015 Attachment No. 2 Page 2 of 2 IV. TRAVEL Total Estimated Cost: V. OTHER DIRECT COSTS Total Estimated Cost: VI. GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE (G&A) EXPENSE G&A Rate: VII. Estimated Cost: $_______________ $_______________ $_______________

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST:

VIII. TOTAL FIXED FEE: IX. TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE:

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 3 Page 1 of 2 DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES Complete this form to disclose lobbying activities pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352 (See reverse for public burden disclosure)
1. Type of Federal Action: ____a. contract ____b. grant ____c. cooperative agreement ____d. loan ____e. loan guarantee ____f. loan insurance 2. Status of Federal Action: ____a. bid /offer/application ____b. initial award ____c. post award 3. Report Type: ____a. initial filing ____b. material change For Material Change Only: year _____ quarter ______ date of last report___________ 5. If Reporting Entry in No. 4 is Subawardee, Enter Name and Address of Prime:

4. Name and Address of Reporting Entry: ___Prime ___Subawardee Tier ________, if known:

Congressional District, if known: ______________ Congressional District, if known: ________________ 6. Federal Department/Agency: 7. Federal Program Name/Description:

CFDA Number, if applicable: ____________________ 8. Federal Action Number, if known: 10. a. Name and Address of Lobbying Entity (if individual, last name, first name, MI): 9. Award Amount, if known: $ b. Individuals Performing Services (including address if different from No. 10a) (last name, first name, MI):

11. Information requested through this form is authorized by Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1352. This disclosure of lobbying activities is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed by the tier above when this transaction was made or entered into. This disclosure is required pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1352. This information will be available for public inspection Any person who fails to file the required disclosure Federal Use Only:

Signature: ___________________________________ Print Name: __________________________________ Title: Authorized for Local Reproduction Standard Form-LLL (Rev. 7-97) Approved by OMB 0348-0046

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 3 Page 2 of 2 INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETION OF SF-LLL, DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
This disclosure form shall be completed by the reporting entity, whether subawardee or prime Federal recipient at the initiation or receipt of a covered Federal action, or a material change to a previous filing, pursuant to title 31 U.S.C. section 1352. The filing of a form is required for each payment or agreement to make payment to any lobbying entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with a covered Federal action. Use the SFLLL-A Continuation Sheet for additional information if the space on the form is inadequate. Complete all items that apply for both the initial filing and material change report. Refer to the implementing guidance published by the Office of Management and Budget for additional information. Identify the type of covered Federal action for which lobbying activity is and/or has been secured to influence the outcome of a covered Federal action. 2. Identify the status of the covered Federal action. 3. Identify the appropriate classification of this report. If this is a follow-up report caused by a material change to the information previously reported, enter the year and quarter in which the change occurred. Enter the date of the last previously submitted report by this reporting entity for this covered Federal action. 4. Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the reporting entity. Include Congressional District, if known. Check the appropriate classification of the reporting entity that designates if it is, or expects to be, a prime or subaward recipient. Identify the tier of the subawardee, e.g., the first subawardee of the prime is the 1st tier. Subawards include but are not limited to subcontracts, subgrants and contract awards under grants. 5. If the organization filing the report in item 4 checks ASubawardee@ then enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the prime Federal recipient. Include Congressional District, if known. 6. Enter the name of the Federal agency making the award or loan commitment. Include at least one organizational level below agency name, if known. For example, Department of Transportation, United States Coast Guard. 7. Enter the Federal program name or description for the covered Federal action (item 1). If known, enter the full Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for grants, cooperative agreements, loans and loan commitments. 8. Enter the most appropriate Federal identifying number available for the Federal action identified in item 1 (e.g., Request for Proposal (RFP) number; Invitation for Bid (IFB) number; grant announcement number; the contract, grant, or loan award number; the application/proposal control number assigned by the Federal agency). Include prefixes, e.g., ARFPDE-90-001.@ 9. For a covered Federal action where there has been an award or loan commitment by the Federal agency, enter the Federal amount of the award/loan commitment for the prime entity identified in items 4 or 5. 10. (a) Enter the full name, address, city, state and zip code of the lobbying entity engaged by the reporting entity identified in item 4 to influence the covered Federal action. (b) Enter the full names of the individual(s) performing services, and include full address if different from 10 (a). Enter Last Name, First Name, and Middle Initial (MI). 11. The certifying official that sign and date the form, print his/her name, title, and telephone number. According to the Paperwork Reduction Act, as amended, no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB Control Number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is OMB No. 0348-0046. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 10 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0348-0046), Washington, DC 20503. 1.

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 4 Page 1 of 1

OF-17 (12/93) Offer Label FAR (48) CFR 53.214(g)) FAR (48) CFR 53.215-1(h)) NOTICE TO OFFEROR
1. This label may only be used on envelopes larger than 156 mm (6 1/8 inches) in height and 292 mm (11 ˝ inches) in length.

2.

Print or type your name and address in the UPPER left corner of the envelope containing your offer. Complete the bottom portion of this form and paste it on the LOWER left corner of the envelope, unless the envelope is 156 mm by 292 mm (6 1/8 inches by 11 ˝ inches) or smaller.

3.

OFFER SAMPLE SOLICITATION NO.: DTFH61-11-R-00026 DATE FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: 11/14/2011 TIME FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS: 3:00 PM OFFICE DESIGNATED TO RECEIVE OFFERS Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE, Mail Stop: E65-101 Washington, DC 20590 Attention: Gina Jackson, HAAM-20C

DTFH61-11-R-00026 Attachment No. 5 Page 1 of 3 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE Referencee Information: Provide the following information for the Organization that performed the referenced work: Referencee Information: Offeror's (Prime) Name: __________________________________________________________________ Referencee's Name:______________________________________________________________ Solicitation Number & Title:_______________________________________________________________ Organization/Person Providing the Reference Information: Provide the following information for the Organization and Person/Point of Contact (POC) providing the reference (to assist us in tracking responses received and resolving any conflicts in the evaluation process if necessary): Reference Information: Organization Name:_________________________________________________________ Questionnaire Completion Date:_______________________________________________ Name of Contact: _______________________________________________________

Contact Numbers: Telephone:_______________________Facsimile:_______________________ Position Title: _____________________________________________________________ Reference Project Information: Provide the following information about the referenced project. Reference Project Information: Customer Organization/Office: ______________________________________________

Project Title: ________________________________________________________________

POC Period of Involvement:______________________________________________________ Type of Contract:_______________________________________________________________ Start Period of Performance: Contract Value: Date: ______________ Length_________________

Initial____________________

Current____________________

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONAIRE For the following questions, please circle/check the appropriate rating. Comment lines are provided for additional information if the #2 or #1 rating is given (however the comment lines may be used to provide any additional information deemed noteworthy). High 1. QUALITY OF SERVICE: 5 4 3 2 Low 1

This area deals with compliance of contract requirements, to include appropriateness of personnel and technical excellence. 2. TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE: 5 4 3 2 1

This area deals with the contractor=s ability to meet milestones and delivery schedules, to include responsiveness to technical direction, completion of efforts on time including wrapup and contract administration. 3. PRICE/COST CONTROL: 5 4 3 2 1

This area deals with the contractor=s ability to control price/cost escalation during performance to include appropriate budgetary estimates, current/accurate/complete billings/invoices, relationship of negotiated costs to actual, claim submissions, cost efficiencies, and change order issues. 4. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: 5 4 3 2 1

This area deals with the contractor=s commitment to satisfaction and cooperative/reasonable businesslike behavior with own staff and customers to include: effective management, responsiveness to contract requirements, operates with honesty and integrity, prompt notification of problems, flexible and proactive qualities, effective contractor-recommended solutions, and effective subcontracting and teaming arrangements. Comments (attach additional pages as necessary): GENERAL INFORMATION: Please provide answers to the following questions. 1. Has the contractor ever been given a cure notice, show cause notice,

suspension of progress payments, or other letters directing the correction of a performance problem; or has this contract been partially or completely terminated, or is there any pending termination actions? ( ) No ( ) Yes If yes: ( ) Default ( ) Convenience; and please explain:

2. Changes in contract dollar value throughout the life of the contract are/were attributable, for the most part, to: ( ) claims submitted by the contractor ( ) other Government actions ( ) other contractor actions (please explain below) 3. Based on this contractor's overall performance, would you award this contractor another Government contract? ( ) Yes ( ) No If no, please explain: ( ) Government-issued change orders

4. If any of the above responses are based on adverse past performance, have you discussed it with the contractor and has the contractor had an opportunity to comment? ( ) Not Applicable ( ) Yes ( ) No If yes or no, please explain:

