Attachment 1 Enterprise Event Hosting Event and System User Estimates Estimated Events NCLS Open House Graduation 2013 (CCP) Falcon Heritage Forum Prep School Graduation Honor lessons 4th of July Celebration Other Registration  Starts Oct12 Nov12 Apr13 Jan13 Apr13 Jun13 May13 Unknown Month  Hosted Feb13 Dec12 May13 May13 May13 N/A N/A Unknown Estimated  Est. # Per  Estimated # of  Qty Event  Registrants  Total 1       6,000                        6,000 1          400                           400 1          800                           800 2       3,000                        6,000 1          600                           600 2       1,000                        2,000 1          700                           700 9       1,500                      13,500                     30,000 16,700  30,000

Maximum Registrants Quantity Range

System Users Concurrent Users

Quantity Range 75100

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and a written (formal) solicitation will not be issued. This solicitation is issued as a Request for Quotation (RFQ) IAW FAR Parts 12 & 13. Solicitation number F4B0T02101AC02 is for Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) registration Software as a Service (SaaS) support in accordance with attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated 2 May 2012. This solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular FAC 2005-58, 18 April 2012. The North American Industry Classification System Code (NAICS) is 541519 and the size standard is $25,500,000.00. This is a Total Small Business SetAside. All responsible small businesses may submit a quote, which if received timely, will be considered by the 10th Contracting Squadron, Building 8110, Suite 200, USAF Academy (USAFA), 80840.

Requirements for Quotes
Please read and comply with all requirements for submitting a quote. Failure to comply with all instructions contained within this combined synopsis/solicitation could result in the quote being ineligible for award. It is the offeror's responsibility to ensure their quote meets all the requirements identified herein. Prices quoted must be Firm-Fixed Price to include all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, supervision, travel (if required), credit card transaction fees, and all other costs and services necessary to provide this support. Provide pricing for the following line item: LINE ITEM 0001 Description EEH registration software support IAW the attached PWS dated 2 May 2012. Qty 12 Months Unit Price $__________ Extended Price $___________

The following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses apply to this combined synopsis/solicitation and offerors must comply with all instructions contained in FAR 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Items (Feb 2012) or as modified below. The Contracting Officer is not responsible for locating or obtaining any information not identified in the quotation. FAR 52.212-1 (b) The contractor shall submit their quote on company letterhead to include the following: 1. Solicitation number 2. Contact name, address, telephone number of the offeror 3. DUNS number 4. Cage code 5. Tax identification number 6. Business size/status for designated NAICS code 7. Unit price and Extended price 8. Discount terms 9. Delivery terms

In addition, the offeror must submit for technical evaluation the following documentation with their quote:

1. Complete technical description of the solution being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate the capability of the item offered to show the solution being offered meets the requirement of the PWS. 2. Documentation showing the software's capability to allow the EEH user to generate reports and queries (e.g. existing product literature, online demonstration, etc.). 3. Documentation showing the software's capability for the EEH user to create, add, delete, and manipulate event hosting fields, nomenclature, and format based on each event (e.g. existing product literature, online demonstration, etc.). 4. Documentation showing the software's ability to allow the EEH user to easily build a customized website consistent with USAFA branding (see http://www.usafa.edu/Commandant/cwc/cwcx/ncls/?catname=ncls). This may be provided in the form of existing examples of user customized websites or by creating a website demonstration for review. 5. Documentation showing the offeror's ability to protect all Personally Identifiable Information (PII) IAW PWS para. 4.1. For example, the contractor may provide existing application security standards, previous examples of offeror protecting PII for the government, and/or documentation showing compliance with federal software/system security standards. It is the contractor's responsibility to ensure that sufficient supporting documentation is provided, however, the government reserves the right to seek out additional technical capability information from the vendor or other sources to determine the technical acceptability of the offered software/solution.
Quotes must be received no later than 12:00 pm NOON Mountain Standard Time, 23 May 2012 by e-mail at christopher.wilson.71@us.af.mil. Questions and responses should be addressed to the Primary POC Chris Wilson, Contract Specialist, USAF Academy (719) 333-3600, christopher.wilson.71@us.af.mil. All questions must be submitted NLT 4:00 pm Mountain Standard Time, 15 May 2012. The Alternate POC is Matthew Mclean, Contracting Officer, (719) 333-2478, matthew.mclean.6@us.af.mil. Offers received after the specified date and time will be considered late in accordance with 52.212-1(f) and may not be evaluated.

Provisions and Clauses
The provision at FAR 52.212-3 Alt I, Offeror Representations and Certifications ­ Commercial Items (Apr 2012), must be completed. Offerors are highly encouraged to complete all representations and certifications electronically on line at (http://orca.bpn.gov/publicsearch.aspx). If not completed online, 52.212-3 Alt I shall be completed in hard copy and submitted with quote. In accordance with FAR 52.212-4(t), Central Contractor Registration (CCR) contractors must be registered with CCR to conduct business with the Department of Defense. No purchase order can be awarded to any company without this registration. (www.ccr.gov) The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Award will be made on the basis of determining the technically acceptable offer with the lowest evaluated price which meets or exceeds the minimum requirement. Quotations will first be ordered by price. The offer with the lowest price will then be

evaluated to determine the "technical capability" of the product and "how well the proposed

products meet the Government requirement". The government may find an offeror's software or solution unacceptable if it does not meet the minimum requirements in the PWS. At a minimum the government will evaluate the offer based on the following technical criteria on an
acceptable/unacceptable basis: 1. Ability of the offered application to allow the EEH user to generate reports and queries as defined in the PWS. 2. Ability of the offered application to allow the EEH user to create, add, delete, and manipulate event hosting registration fields, data fields, nomenclature, and format based on each event. 3. Ability of the offered application to allow the EEH user to easily build a customized website consistent with USAFA branding. 4. Offeror's ability to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII). 5. Past performance based on information obtained through the Governmentwide Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) at www.ppirs.gov. The offeror with the lowest price that has been determined to be technically acceptable based on the evaluation criteria will be awarded the contract. If the lowest priced offer passes all technical criteria, award will be made to that offeror and no further evaluations will take place. If the lowest priced offer does not pass all technical criteria, the next lowest offer will be evaluated for technical acceptability and if required, the process will continue until an offer passes technical acceptability of all criteria. The following clauses apply to this acquisition. The clause at FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items (Feb 2012), with the following addenda, applies: Addendum to FAR 52.212-4(c) Changes Text in paragraph (c) is deleted and replaced with the following: Changes in terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties with the exception of certain changes such as administrative changes including changes in paying office, appropriation data, etc. authorized by the Federal Acquisition Regulation and its supplements that may be made unilaterally by the Contracting Officer (for a complete list of changes that may be made unilaterally, see FAR 43.103(b)) (End of Addendum) FAR 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998): This solicitation incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. The full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/. The clause at FAR 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Items (Apr 2012)(Deviation), applies to this acquisition. Additional FAR clauses cited in the clause applicable to this acquisition are: 52.204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment 52.219-6 Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside 52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Representation

52.222-3 Convict Labor 52.222-19 Child Labor ­ Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity 52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Veterans 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities 52.222-37 Employment Reports on Veterans 52.222-41 Service Contract Act of 1965 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons 52.223-18 Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging while Driving 52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Central Contractor Registration 52.233-3 Protest After Award 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim 52.239-1 Privacy or Security Safeguards FAR 52.252-6, Authorized Deviations in Clauses (Apr 1984) (a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Department of Defense FAR Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (End of Clause)

DFARS 252.212-7001, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Applicable to Defense Acquisitions of Commercial Items (Apr 2012) applies to this acquisition. Additional DFARS clauses cited in the clause applicable to this acquisition are: 252.203-7000 252.227-7015 252.227-7037 252.232-7003 252.232-7010 252.237-7010 252.247-7023 Alt III Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials Technical Data ­ Commercial Items Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports Levies on Contract Payments Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel Transportation of Supplies by Sea Alternate III

AFFARS 5352.201-9101 Ombudsman (Apr 2010) (a) An ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential offerors, and others for this acquisition. When requested, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the authority of the program manager, contracting officer, or source selection official. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman may refer the party to another official who can resolve the concern.

(b) Before consulting with an ombudsman, interested parties must first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution. Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines for any other processes (e.g., agency level bid protests, GAO bid protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions, contests of OMB Circular A-76 competition performance decisions). (c) If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, concerned parties may contact the USAF Academy Ombudsmen, Kelly Snyder 8110 Industrial Drive, Ste 103 USAFA, CO 80840 Telephone number 719-333-2074 FAX 719-333-2379 email: kelly.snyder@usafa.af.mil Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations that cannot be resolved at the MAJCOM/DRU level, may be brought by the concerned party for further consideration to the Air Force ombudsman, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (ADAS) (Contracting), SAF/AQC, 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1060, phone number (703) 588-7004, facsimile number (703) 588-1067. (d) The ombudsman has no authority to render a decision that binds the agency. (e) Do not contact the ombudsman to request copies of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical requirements. Such inquiries shall be directed to the Contracting Officer. (End of clause) AFFARS 5352.242-9000, Contractor Access to Air Force Installations (Aug 2007) FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data­General (Dec 2007) FAR 52.227-17 Rights in Data ­ Special Works FAR 52.224-1 Privacy Act Notification FAR 52.224-2 Privacy Act

Attachments 1. Performance Work Statement dated 2 May 2012 2. Wage Determination 05-2079 (Rev 12)

ENTERPRISE EVENT HOSTING

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

Current as of 2 May 2012 UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 3700 USAF Academy CO 80840-5052

TABLE OF CONTENTS SECTION 1: BACKGROUND SECTION 2: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES (Scope of Work)
2.1 2.2 2.3 Support Services Service Lifecycle Period of Performance (PoP)

3 3
3 3 3

SECTION 3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 USAFA Event Staff Consistency and Communication Kickoff Security Training Product Ownership Hosting and Format Additional Functionality

3
3 4 4 4 5 5 5 5

SECTION 4: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.10 4.11 4.12 4.13 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 4.18 4.19 4.20 4.21 4.22 4.23 4.24 Web Accessible System Professional Webpages Website Re-Direct Website Availability Website Flexibility Optimal User Experience Database Database Archives Security Registration Group Registration Age Determination Precedence Registrant Payment Notifications Invitations USAFA Event Staff /Team Management Event Communications USAFA Event Room Reservation Venue Management Seating Module Nametags Reports and Queries Surveys Training On-Line Help

5
5 6 6 6 6 6 7 7 7 8 10 10 10 10 11 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 14 15 15

Attachments
1. EEH Event and System User Estimates

 
USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS Page 2

1. BACKGROUND: The United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) hosts over 350 events annually in support of their mission to produce leaders of character. USAFA events not only highlight character development by bringing together distinguished scholars, armed forces leaders, Government, corporate presidents, and other leaders but also to explore various dimensions of leadership. Attendees at these events include Department of Defense (DOD) personnel, other government agencies, industry, academia, foreign nationals, and civilians. An enterprise event hosting solution is required to support all USAFA hosted events. 2. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES (Scope of Work): 2.1 Support Services: The contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, supervision, and other items and services necessary to provide conference support for USAFA events in accordance with this Performance Work Statement (PWS). The USAFA is only requesting a limited set of on-line event hosting IT services to help support event execution; therefore, the scope of this effort does not include on-site physical logistical support (e.g., transportation, lodging, site location or room set-up) for the USAFA events. As part of USAFA event support the contractor shall provide a COTS online event management application (Software as a Service) that includes (1) registration, (2) ability for USAFA event managers to customize event websites, (3) assurance the registration site is 508 compliant, (4) customizable email notifications/invitations, (5) attendee management, (6) payment collection and processing, event budget management, (7) redundant hardware structure and backup capability, (8) reporting, (9) multiple event management, (10) contact management, (11) multi-layer security, (12) travel management, (13) administrative/ workflow tools, and (14) customer service with extensive training on provided services stated above. 2.2 Service Lifecycle: To ensure the USAFA requirements are understood and implemented in their entirety, the contractor shall hold a Critical Design Review (CDR) and hold a Production Readiness Review with the government by 1 August 2012. All issues discovered must be logged and tracked. 2.3 Period of Performance (PoP): Web-hosting support will be required from 1 October 2012 to the end of the period of performance. The period of performance is 1 July 2012 through 30 June 2013. 3. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: 3.1 USAFA Event Staff: USAFA events span across six major organizations with event staff from various work areas. It is necessary for the contractor to work with personnel from all organizations at varying times during the PoP. Customers requiring use of the Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) solution will be provided in a phased structure. Below is a high level description: 3.1.1 Primary EEH Solution Users 1. Center for Character and Leadership Development (CW/CCLD) 2. Plans and Programs (USAFA/A8)

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 3

3. Protocol (USAFA/CCP) - Development & Alumni Programs database (USAFA/CMA) 3.1.2 1. 2. 3. 4. 3.1.3 Secondary EEH Solution Users CW Protocol (CW/CAG) DF Protocol (DF/CCP) Admissions Office (USAFA/RR) Athletic Department (AD)

Tertiary EEH Solution Users 1. Commandant of Cadets (CW) 2. Dean of Faculty (DF) 3. 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW) 4. Prep School (PL) 5. 306th FTG 6. All additional organizations on base. EEH Support Team 1. EEH Program Manager (PM) ­ super-administrator of solution able to access all government data within the site; elevated privileges over all events 2. EEH Super System Administrator (SSA) ­ super system administrator of solution able access to all government data within the site; elevated privileges over all events 3. Public Affairs (USAFA/PA) 4. CCLD System Administrator (SA) ­ system administrator of solution with elevated privileges over CCLD events 5. CW System Administrator (SA) ­ system administrator of solution with elevated privileges over CW events 6. DF System Administrator (SA) ­ system administrator of solution with elevated privileges over DF events 7. USAFA/A8 System Administrator (SA) ­ system administrator of solution with elevated privileges over USAFA/A8 events

3.1.4

3.2 Consistency and Communication: To ensure continuing dialogue between the various users, communication has been standardized to Microsoft Windows 7, using Microsoft Internet Explorer version 8 with Microsoft office products/tools for reporting. All developed products shall be .net framework compatible with Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) front end and MS SQL 08 R2 back-end. MS Project 2010 is the standard tool the contractor shall use for project planning, work break down structure, milestones, and progress/status reporting. 3.3 Kickoff: The contractor shall host a kick-off meeting, including any key subcontractors, within 7 calendar days of contract award. This may be on-site at the AF Academy and/or completed virtually. 3.4 Security: The contractor and any subcontractors shall keep PM and SA apprised on any security issues discovered on the hardware or software for any event. The contractor and or

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 4

any subs shall not openly disclose USAFA vulnerabilities to anyone outside the government. More comprehensive details on security requirements are found in section 4.7. 3.5 Training: The contractor shall provide a user guide and conduct training for each of their modules. More comprehensive details on training requirements are found in paragraph 4.23. 3.6 Product Ownership: All information imported into the contractors database such as technical materials, documents, drawings, briefings, data schema, data tables, associated database lay-out/design and the actual data used to populate the environment or produced by the contractor in support of this PWS shall be the exclusive property of the government. Data will not be used by the contractor for any other purpose without the express written permission of the Government. The Government shall retain custody of all data (hard and soft copies) associated with contractor management, deliverables and shall have exclusive control in the distribution of all deliverables and products. The contractor shall protect data from unauthorized use. Services provided shall be in compliance with all Department of Defense and U.S. Air Force data management process as required. The contractor awarded this effort agrees to adopt or establish operating procedures and physical security measures designed to protect this data from inadvertent release or disclosure to unauthorized third parties before making production data available on any website. 3.7 Hosting and Format: The contractor shall externally host, maintain and secure all USAFA event websites accessible via the internet. The contractor shall ensure all event websites are 508 compliant.

3.8 Additional Functionality: Any additional capabilities and/or recommended changes to the system for improvement of event hosting must be approved by the Government. 4. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS: 4.1 Web Accessible System: Event websites shall provide a professional and cohesive experience for the end user/event participants. The contractor shall provide a secure, external, encrypted, web-based, on-line capability to accept, process and federates event registration data from both internal and external event participants with other IT systems and/or services. All Personally Identifiable Information (PII) shall be protected and displayed on a limited basis except where absolutely required. Do not post PII on publicly accessible DoD web sites unless authorized by law and implementing regulation and policy. See AFI 33-129 Transmission of Information Via the Internet. Add a prominent Privacy Act Advisory at web site entry points. A Privacy Act Advisory is required to be posted on the web page where the information is being solicited or through a well-marked hyperlink whenever a web site solicits PII, even when not retained by the site after login or maintained in a Privacy Act system of records. Notices must clearly explain when the collection of PII is voluntary and notify users how to provide consent. Include a Privacy Act Statement on the web page if it collects information directly from an individual that is maintained and retrieved by his or her name or personal identifier (i.e., SSN). Only maintain such information in approved Privacy Act systems of records that are published in the Federal Register. The Privacy Act gives subject individuals certain rights with respect to the

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 5

government's maintenance and use of PII collected about them that is contained in a Privacy Act record.

4.1.1

Integrate USAFA event website with established major social networks (LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, etc).

4.2 Professional Webpages: Overall webpages shall be professional and present a standardized look and feel throughout the website(s). All websites shall be easily customizable to ensure consistency with USAFAs web development team theme. 4.2.1 The EEH solution shall prompt users to rely on pull-down menu data options for organizations to ensure data integrity (and avoid getting people from UCCS signing in as "UCCS" "UC Colorado Springs" "U of Colorado, COS", ...). Any exceptions shall be submitted to the GOVERNMENT for coordination before implementation. Navigational process must be consistent throughout all web pages and present one seamless view at the novice user level. Novice level users must be able to tell where to click or select enter to proceed without searching. Data entry shall not be case sensitive unless absolutely necessary (like in a password). The website shall be designed for government use and provide links to USAFA resources for help and or questions. None of these sites shall contain or reference the contractor company name or their subcontractor(s). The contractor shall ensure all USAFA event websites are Section 508 compliant. The government will validate 508 compliance upon notification from the contractor. All transcriptions hover labels and closed caption shall meet Google ApplicationProgramming Interface (API) standards. Upon Government request, the contractor shall replace a transcript with one provided by the Government.

4.2.2

4.2.3

4.2.4

4.3 Website Re-Direct: The contractor shall register the USAFA event websites and provide the capability to re-direct existing event traffic from the existing URL to the contractor's URL and also provide the capability to re-direct event traffic back to the initial URL at the end of the PoP. Evidence of this capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.4 Website Availability: The contractor shall ensure the USAFA event websites are fully operational to end users and event staff seven days a week from 3:00 AM to Midnight (Mountain Time). All planned downtimes must be coordinated through the Government. 4.5 Website Flexibility: Required in the event of security/safety concern. USAFA expects this to be a rare occurrence; the contractor shall make short notice changes within four hours of notification of a security/safety concern. 4.6 Optimal User Experience: The EEH solution shall provide an optimal end user experience that includes intuitive registration flow, provides ease of access to relevant information while avoiding extraneous information, and thoroughness of presenting critical information.

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 6

4.5 Database: There are various USAFA event databases with participant/attendee information that must be consolidated and stored by the contractor. Evidence of the following subparagraphs shall be provided no later than the baseline CDR. 4.5.1 The contractor shall migrate current USAFA event data (e.g. SQL databases and excel spreadsheets) to contractors cloud services hosted hardware (Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS)). Under this cloud services model, USAFA data shall not be comingled with any other data. If more equipment/material resources are required based on usage or USAFA contact capacity, contractor servers shall be upgraded or replaced, without additional cost to government. Backups will be performed daily. USAFA events database shall be actively monitored for security and regularly patched to the latest OS security and stability releases. Additionally, events data shall be protected via Industry-standard firewalls/security devices. USAFA events database shall seamlessly interface with web front end for ease of use. Capability to also allow contacts to update their own information and merge duplicate contacts into one single record. The contractor shall have capability to control database visibility based on permissions with multi-user access with defined user rights. The contractor shall protect (e.g. encrypt) copyrighted, Privacy Act (PA) or PII such as Social Security Numbers (SSNs), Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) bank routing, account number, and credit card data for all event participants (foreign or domestic). Contractor shall demonstrate/report how this is accomplished in the first PMR and as requested by the Government. The contractor's solution shall allow the Government to create, add, delete, and manipulate event hosting registration fields, data fields, nomenclature, and format based on each event.

4.5.2

4.5.3 4.5.4

4.5.5

4.5.6

4.5.7

4.5.8

4.6 Database Archives: At CDR the contractor shall present a plan detailing how the government will be able to import the data into a MS SQL database at the end of the PoP. The contractor shall maintain the USAFA database for 45 days following the PoP. The contractor shall archive all the data and deliver a complete USAFA data transfer with associated schema maps to the PM and SA as a complete re-usable package with changes/updates required before using. 4.7 Security: The overall system (web services) servers and data in this system shall be secured and have permission based control access points with a use identification and password assigned to each administrator in accordance with Air Force Instruction 33-129, Chapter 12-

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 7

Countering the Threat. 4.7.1 USAFA networks have controlled network traffic. The contractor shall work closely with USAFA's IT personnel to ensure service is accessible by authorized government personnel. This may require whitelisting, domain named server modifications, updates, scanning and/or detailed discussion with security personnel to ensure access that works for our military institution and the external visitors/schools that participate in this event. The contractor shall demonstrate this capability at the CDR. The Government will designate certain EEH solution users who are able to access all government data on the EEH solution. The Government will designate other users as basic administrators who do not have unrestricted access. The contractor shall create administrative capacity in the EEH solution such that administrators can be changed throughout the duration of the contract. There are approximately 75-100 personnel who may need to access reports and only about six who may need access to the most sensitive information. The EEH solution shall accommodate administrators with one login and password for all web site functions. The data field changes/updates shall display to the super administrator who made the change along with the date and time of the change. USAFA data and EEH solution shall be protected by fire detection and suppression systems by the contractor. Systems shall be fault tolerant with redundant servers and hourly back-ups. The contractor shall host all USAFA event websites on secure websites (HTTPS) and Triple DES encryption for USAFA data storage. The contractor shall provide a separate and secure access section on specified event websites for unique participants to externally upload personal and professional information (speaker biography, photos, briefings, briefing requirements, registration data, and travel itineraries, social security number, checking account/routing number, phone, e-mail, mailing address, preferred airline account, travel constraints around the conference dates, talent release, W9 -if applicable, etc.) The URL must be formatted so that USAFA customers can e-mail this link as needed to unique participants. In the event that the Transportation Security Administration requires any additional information from travelers, these data fields shall also be available to be presented in this unique profile.

4.7.2

4.7.3

4.7.4

4.7.5

4.7.6

4.8 Registration: USAFA has several different categories of registrants based on different options that the contractor shall present to the varying groups representing certain demographics. Broadly, the following are the different groups: Cadets, USAFA Staff and Faculty, Visiting Undergraduate Students and Faculty, USAFA Alumni, and Community/Government/Military at large.

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 8

4.8.1

The contractor shall present dynamic, multi-track, multi-session registration paths while restricting registration to contacts on the invitation list. The EEH solution shall pre-populate contact information on registration forms already acquired from the USAFA database. The EEH solution must have the capability to hold back seats in particular sessions for an event according to a number determined by the Government such that each successive session selection wave has new seats to release. The EEH solution shall provide the capability for individuals to register via the event website, allowing them to enter, update, substitute, or delete (cancel) their own information. Changes in an individual's registration information shall be captured immediately to enable running up-to-date reports. If an individual's registration information is incomplete, missing information shall be clearly identified. All individual registrants shall be able to obtain on-line detail of their registration status and what remains to complete this process. They shall be able to display or print their schedule directly from the website or save and e-mail it as chosen. This printout shall include selected sessions for the event. Evidence of this and following capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. Certain event activities incur an expense, but this expense may not be charged to all attendees depending on the registration category. The contractor shall make provision for payment to vary for certain activities for individuals in certain registration categories. For specified reasons, some registrants may not complete registration until certain documentation is uploaded onto the event website. These tentative registrants may not continue until the government approves the uploaded document; the EEH solution shall provide notification to the registrant and allow the registrant to proceed with registration. Provide capability to password protect portions of registration process. Administrative reports are required to show the status of each category of registrant and specialized profiles for sponsored attendees. All out of town attendees (regardless of category) must have their mode of transportation (airline/car), flight information plus arrival and departure time tracked and reportable.

4.8.2

4.8.3

4.8.4

4.8.5

4.8.6

4.8.7 4.8.8

4.8.9

4.8.10 Support registrants to forward invitations or information to family, friends, or peers during registration to further promote USAFA event. 4.8.11 The EEH solution will provide USAFA event staff to manage on-site registration as a logged in staff member. The solution will also allow the staff to create all required

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 9

materials for the registrant on-site (name-tags, agendas, invoices, etc.). 4.9 Group Registration: The EEH solution shall provide a group registration function via the event website to allow one person to register and pay for a group of individuals (e.g. allow parents to register themselves and their children who are 17 years of age and younger). 4.10 Age Determination: The EEH solution shall validate registrants' birthday before certain USAFA events before fully executing a registration. The contractor shall forward exceptions to the Government for appropriate action. Evidence of this capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.11 Precedence: The contractor's event website shall adhere to the following precedence order for registrations: individual registers, customer approves registration, individual receives confirmation of registration, and then individual is provided access to enter travel arrival, departure information and payment information. Evidence of this capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.12 Registrant Payment: This section outlines requirements for payments and payment processing for USAFA event registrants. Evidence of capability to provide the following shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.12.1 The EEH solution shall provide the capability for categorized pricing based on registration types or registration category. Individual registrants may select and pay for events of their choice from an a la carte menu. Fee schedule may vary slightly for each category of registrant but, shall not exceed a total of twelve individual a la carte choices for any category. Redirect link may be required for individuals to purchase individualized merchandise for this event (i.e. Polo's, T-Shirts, coins and/or souvenirs) or make donation in amounts determined by registrant. 4.12.2 The EEH solution shall provide the capability for instantly authorized on-line credit card payments using a secure section of the USAFA event websites while sending automated emails to registrants confirming the registration payment. The contractor shall comply with the Level 1 Purchase Card Information (PCI) industry standard and demonstrate this compliance. 4.12.3 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to accept payments from Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express including PayPal for on-line payments while processing payments in international currencies. Processing must be in real-time with automatic notifications of failed transactions. 4.12.4 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to automate refunds according to custom refund and cancellation policy. 4.12.5 The EEH solution shall produce automated invoices and receipts to users based on online payments.

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 10

4.12.6 The contractor shall collect registration fees from registrants, and then provide these registration funds directly to an organization named by the government. 4.13 Notifications: The EEH solution shall include the capability to send registrants automated email notifications when their registration is complete or incomplete while concurrently sending the customer an automated email notification when individuals have successfully registered for an event. Evidence of this capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.14 Invitations: This section outlines invitation requirements for USAFA events. 4.14.1 The EEH solution shall distribute electronic invitations to different categories of prospective USAFA Event attendees (e.g., non-speaker VIPs, civic leaders, colleges & universities, local professionals, high schools), in accordance with the Governmentprovided invitation list and form letter. Electronic invitations shall include, at a minimum, information about registration, lodging, check-in, cancellations, ground transportation, airport directions, exhibits, communications, conference attire, guest activities, preliminary event agenda, and conference and hotel reservation contact information. The EEH solution shall track, manage, and report RSVPs from those individuals who were sent invitations. Evidence of this capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.14.2 The EEH solution shall include capability to produce and distribute electronic invitations to groups of people for individual events within an event (e.g., conference, dinner, lunch with cadets) and track, manage, and report RSVPs from those individuals who were sent invitations. Create, save and re-use email templates while customizing email templates to match organizational branding. Emails should sent be in either HTML or plain text 4.14.3 The EEH solution will have options for "Sent from" name per email to ensure higher open rates and ability to customize "Reply to" email address. Emails sent are based on registration status such as Undecided, Accepted, Attended, or No-show. Invitation reminders to repeat every set number of days for unresponsive invitees. Automate payment confirmation, receipts, and invoice emails. 4.14.4 Comply with CAN-SPAM Act with one-click opt-out option for registrants to stop automatic emails from USAFA events. 4.15 USAFA Event Staff /Team Management: This section outlines the Administrative oversight and customer requirements of the event websites and backend operation. Evidence of EEH solution capability shall provide the following at the baseline CDR. 4.15.1 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to add and manage different categories of staff members for the customer (e.g., cadet staff, permanent party staff, cadet escorts, permanent party escorts, and student delegates). This capability shall include the ability to pair escorts with registrants (with a gender filter to accurately pair same-sex room assignments).

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 11

4.15.2 The EEH solution shall provide the capability for the GOVERNMENT to assign flexible access rights to customers via the event website. 4.15.3 The EEH solution shall provide a separate secure area on the event website for staff to manage their event. Assign event launch approval rights to designated users only. 4.15.4 The EEH solution shall have ability to create customized dashboards for top-level view of event and contact data. 4.15.5 The EEH solution shall have capability for USAFA event staff to delegate tasks with automated reminders and notifications then track staff completion of task. 4.16 Event Communications: This section outlines general USAFA event communication requirements. 4.16.1 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to produce and distribute to confirmed registrants pre-departure information e-mail. The template will be provided by the government. 4.16.2 The EEH solution shall provide the Government the capability to create USAFA event and email templates for event communications. 4.16.3 The EEH solution shall provide the Government the capability to schedule broadcast and reminder emails to event registrants without contractor intervention. The Government will provide communication updates templates and/or source material for electronic distribution. 4.16.4 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to notify past attendees about upcoming USAFA events as pulled from historical databases and reports. Unlike the other subparagraphs in this section, evidence of this capability shall be provided no later than the baseline CDR. 4.17 USAFA Event Room Reservation: The USAFA event website shall provide the customer or designated rep the ability to manage hotel reservations for a fixed block of rooms at the Rampart Lodge the Air Force Academy's lodging facility. Contractor software shall allow users to reserve, report and cancel reservation plus it will securely store credit card information in an encrypted format using 128 bit or better encryption standard. This process shall be available when registration opens. Evidence of EEH solution capability shall be provided at the baseline CDR. 4.17.1 Individual registrants shall have the ability to change their arrival and departure dates and to cancel the reservation online until a specified cutoff date that will be set by the customer (estimating cut-off to be seven days before conference begins). Changes beyond that date will be handled locally.

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 12

4.17.2 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to generate a room by room lodging report that includes room number and credit card for the occupant. 4.17.3 The EEH solution shall provide a link on the registration site to the USAFA Inn for registrants to sign up using the Inn's registration page. 4.18 Venue Management: This section outlines venue management requirements. Evidence of EEH solution capability to provide this shall be demonstrated at the baseline CDR. 4.18.1 Really Simple Syndicated (RSS) alerts shall be available for venue changes to alert attendees of changes. All registrants can subscribe to this service and shall receive an email when changes or updates occur. 4.18.2 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to track and report registrations of attendees to specific sessions (i.e., "ticketing") to allow staff to estimate attendance and to reschedule sessions, as required, to locations appropriately sized for the number of registrants attending. 4.18.3 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to limit tickets/reservations to venues based on capacity and provide the capability to disseminate "sold out" notifications and "wait list" options to registrants and staff. 4.18.4 The contractor shall provide the capability via the USAFA event websites to schedule events and activities, assign individuals and groups to specific USAFA events/activities as required. 4.18.5 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to batch assign registrants to USAFA venues via the event websites based on the registration categories and the event program office determination. 4.18.6 The session selection environment shall open up for different registration-categories at different times as requested by the Government. This feature shall indicate varying compliance levels for minimum session attendance (for example, faculty may only have to go to 2 of the 8 sessions at an event) or none at all (voluntary attendees). For registration categories with compulsory attendance, there shall be feedback indicating how many more sessions are needed to achieve the minimum. 4.19 Seating Module: The contractor shall provide a seating chart module capability via the USAFA event website. This module shall allow the customer and their staff to manage specialized seating. This module shall show total seats allocated to each table, when each seat is assigned, and will help balance the number of VIPs, Cadets, and visitors at each table. It shall be flexible to manage cancellations or add-on seating as needed. 4.19.1 The functionality of the seating module shall support the event seating data fields. The seating module includes: 1) the capability to define an event, event floor plan, the number of tables available for seating, table size and location; 2) the capability to view

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 13

all tables with color codes to describe the tables where seats are available; 3) the capability to signal if a table has too many seats; 4) the capability to email the guests of a specific table; 5) the capability to randomly seat guests who are awaiting seating at a defined list of tables; and 6) the capability to produce reports to include event roster, table listings and necessary reports to manage the seating process. Evidence of EEH solution capability to provide this shall be demonstrated at the baseline CDR. 4.20 Nametags: This section outlines nametag requirements for USAFA events. 4.20.1 The EEH solution shall prepare the formatted template for all nametags for each USAFA event participant. Evidence of this capability shall be provided no later than the baseline CDR. 4.20.2 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to use Avery label formats ­ specific Avery formats will be dependent upon availability of government supplies. Government will provide this lay-out at least 30 days before going to production. 4.20.3 The EEH solution shall provide the capability for the Government to create new nametags by automatically merging attendee information into the nametag template allowing for customize nametags with graphics, colors, and text effects as requested. 4.21 Reports and Queries: The contractor shall provide a user friendly capability to create reports and queries. 4.21.1 The contractor shall provide the capability to produce all USAFA event reports in the following formats: MS Word, MS Excel, HTML and PDF. The reports shall be directly available to the government as needed without contractor intervention. 4.21.2 Additionally, the contractor shall provide the Government the capability to run ad-hoc queries/reports on USAFA event data received and on any data field. 4.21.3 These reports shall be dynamic and provide the government the ability to filter and sort based on immediate needs. The contractor shall demonstrate the required report capability by the CDR. The government acknowledges that no data will be available for the reports at the time of CDR. 4.21.4 The EEH solution shall analyze email campaigns for USAFA events and measure key event metrics with cross-event reports. 4.21.5 The EEH solution shall provide the capability to produce on demand budget reports that display event expenditures by event, department or in aggregate. Additionally, calculate variable costs, track vendor payments trend analysis and cost per registrant. 4.22 Surveys: The contractor shall provide registrants with a prominent link to a survey that matches their registration category when they log-on. Surveys will include pre-registration surveys and post-event surveys for attendees. EEH solution will allow staff to ask sub-

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 14

questions based on survey question responses. All survey data collected will be provided to the event staff in an Excel format. 4.23 Training: The contractor shall provide initial orientation and training of the USAFA event websites and system capabilities before initial baseline goes live. 4.23.1 The contractor shall provide comprehensive training on administrative and module training to EEH solution users. 4.23.2 The contractor shall provide unlimited, on-line and telephone help support as needed to the government. Telephone support shall be a toll free number so that callers do not incur costs for this support. 4.23.3 Training shall be held by the contractor as required. 4.24 On-Line/Help Desk Services: The contractor shall provide 24/7 on-line and telephonic help desk support and help menus for end users to seek assistance in use of the website capabilities.

USAFA Enterprise Event Hosting (EEH) PWS

Page 15

