Federal Bureau of Investigation Request for Information (RFI) #25-032011 March 4, 2011 SUMMARY This Request for Information (RFI) is in support of market research for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for the outsourcing of an Unclassified Network (UNet) server and storage infrastructure and applications layer environment, less certain operations and security monitoring functions, as well as to add additional infrastructure services to that outsourced environment (UNet Outsourcing). PURPOSE This RFI requests vendors to provide information to assist the Government in data collection pursuant to a bundle of services as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) from a commercial provider(s) of cloud computing services and software. Cloud computing will encompass all support services required to design the full requested capability, transition existing services, deploy and operate new services, and safeguard all inscope services. The business objectives are to replace current on-premise sensitive­but-unclassified (SBU) unified communication, collaboration and application hosting services with a dedicated cloud solution, as well as add the services described in detail below. Please note the FBI intends to continue to operate its UNet desktop and mobile computing environment including performing associated software deployment and security patch management, to operate the associated UNet switching and transmission network, and to conduct operational performance and security monitoring; therefore, these capabilities are deliberately excluded from this RFI. The ideal solution would be an integrated tool set through which the Government monitors performance metrics and permits the Government to administer through business rules and roles, rather than physical control of its own hardware assets and direct software licensing. This RFI is for planning and informational purposes only and shall not be considered as a request for proposal or as an obligation on the part of the Government to acquire any products or services. No entitlement to payment of direct or indirect costs or charges by the Government will arise as a result of contractor submission of responses to this RFI or the Government's use of such information. The Government reserves the right to reject, in whole or in part, any contractor's input resulting from this RFI. Vendors that do not possess an active Top Secret Facility Clearance need not respond. This RFI is part of the FBI's effort to distinguish and appraise the business community's aptitude to provide such services associated with the UNet Outsourcing. This RFI will also ask responders for their feedback to a series of questions and the RFI. BACKGROUND The Information and Technology Branch (ITB), within the FBI, has the responsibility and duty to direct, engineer, and operate all network infrastructures including UNet. So as to enhance the service provided to all users, ITB has acknowledged the need to implement the Next Generation UNet (NGU). NGU will 1

meet existing demands, accommodate future growth, address and mitigate existing vulnerabilities and provide an optimal infrastructure that can better support expanding user needs. The existing UNet e-mail and collaboration infrastructure at the FBI is not sufficient for the future. The environment is comprised of aging servers and network devices with limited redundancy and inconsistent support capability. The current email and collaboration software infrastructure supporting the FBI is based on: Microsoft Exchange 2007 for E-mail Microsoft SharePoint 2007 for File Sharing Blackberry Enterprise Server (version 4.1.7) Big Fix for Desktop Client Management Microsoft Windows Server 2008 VMware ESX Server 3.5 Virtualization The current environment and future outsourced environment will be managed by the FBI's use of: ArcSight security monitoring products HP Enterprise Management Suite (EMS) operational monitoring products

SERVICES/OBJECTIVES The following services and objectives encompass the Cloud Computing. These services are not limited to what is recorded; it is a high level overview and permits a degree of interpretation. These services are identified in importance as "Required Service Capabilities," "Required Performance and Compliance," and "Secondary Objectives" to focus on providing a solution. Required Service Capabilities Authentication: o Host existing Active Directory environment o Host RSA servers to facilitate dual factor authentication to the environment o Host PKI infrastructure for future implementation of PKI into the UNet enclave o Provide a single sign on capability for all services Email/Calendar/Contacts/Tasks: o Accessible via Outlook, Outlook Web Access (OWA), and mobile devices o 25 GB mailboxes per user (this is an estimated upper limit, not average size) o Ability to share/delegate address lists, distribution lists, mailboxes, calendars, contacts, and tasks Instant Messaging and Presence: o Ability to IM with outside users. Federations shall include, but not be limited to, named entities and major industry providers including but not limited to AOL, MSN, and Yahoo o Ability to IM on the network from/to users within the enterprise o Ability to share desktop and/or applications o Ability to share user presence, i.e. whether users are online, away, busy, and in a "do not disturb" status, or offline o Presence shall link to users' calendars and VoIP/desktop VTC services o Presence shall exist in email, instant messaging, VoIP, desktop VTC, web collaboration, document collaboration and mobile devices 2

o Ability to escalate to VoIP, desktop VTC, web collaboration or Conference Bridge VoIP : o Ability to place calls to outside numbers from workstations, laptops and peripherals o Ability to place calls on the network from/to desktops within the enterprise Desktop Video Teleconference: o Ability to federate video calls to outside numbers o Ability to place video calls on the network from/to desks within the enterprise o Ability to host online meetings to include audio, video, desktop sharing, and application sharing Conference Bridges: o Ability to host conference calls with outside parties o Ability to host conference calls on the network from/to desktops within the enterprise Web Collaboration: o Ability to facilitate internally accessible blogs, wikis and social networking features Document Management, Collaboration, and Printing: o Ability to store, view, create, modify and delete word processing documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and forms, including all Microsoft Office Professional 2007 and subsequent version documents o Ability to print to devices hosted in FBI facilities Search: o Ability to conduct federated, enterprise and full text searches or data accessible by users Required Performance and Compliance Support approximately 45,000 users with 45,000 desktops at 600 office locations across the United States Support approximately 25,000 mobile devices including, but not limited to, Blackberries, Androids, Windows Mobile devices and iPhones Host all data and applications in at least two (2) geographically disparate data centers to facilitate COOP in the continental United States (INCONUS) only and at least 50 miles outside the District of Columbia (D.C.) perimeter Provide 99.9% scheduled up time on all services Include the ability to send all alerts and security events to the FBI's centralized Systems Management suites, including HP Operational Monitoring appliances and ArcSight Security Monitoring appliances Have the ability to create legal holds based on sender/recipient, author, dates and/or key word and the ability to export data from those legal holds or searches in compliance with NARA 5015.2 Adhere to applicable FBI security and privacy rules and regulations to protect personally identifiable information (PII) Adhere to applicable ODNI, DISA and NIST standards Include the ability to address data spills and associated clean up Adhere to applicable Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973

3

Secondary Objectives Enable sending/receiving of large attachments such as audio and video files Have the ability to mandate automated deletion of electronic records to include, but not limited to, e-mail, IM and document collaboration environments. Initial hold period will be one (1) year Shall include backups in the event of data loss or corruption Include a web enabled console ability to administer the services Provide routine reports, generated weekly, monthly and quarterly with historical information and be posted online and/or delivered via automated e-mails Provide all ad hoc reports via a web console Include e-mail anti-virus, anti-spam, and anti-phishing filtering Include e-mail content filtering by sender, receiver and keywords Include 128-bit encryption or higher for all sessions Include intrusion monitoring Include an online password reset tool Provide all OS, application and security patches for all systems used to provide services Provide 24/7/365 phone, web and e-mail support Provide alerts via e-mail and phone calls to the FBI EOC for all service interruptions Ensure all data remains property of the US Government Require service provider to provide all tools and labor to migrate existing accounts, data and applications to the cloud solution Have migrations performed outside of normal working hours or with limited disruption to users Include a mechanism to migrate to another provider or the FBI upon request Provide file storage services Ability to host applications in the cloud Ability to add storage as needed QUESTIONS FOR RESPONDERS The FBI is requesting industry to comment on this RFI. The FBI also generated the following questions to stimulate industry response; however, the questions are not exclusive and the FBI does not require answers to every question in order to constitute a response. The intent of this exercise is to produce an exchange of clear and concise information. Vendors are encouraged to provide their feedback but must abide by the restrictions set below. Are the objectives clear? If not, what areas are ambiguous? Are the proposed objectives sufficient to provide the Government the necessary information for oversight and assessment? What would your evaluation be of the risk to the FBI associated with this procurement? What would prohibit or cause issue(s) of concern to transition/migrate to the FBI or another service provider? Describe the migration process Identify which applications are not available, not ideal, or not currently seen on the cloud Describe your demonstrated experience in IT Security Provide a copy of your Service Level Agreement (SLA) What pricing structure and/or discounts could result if the procurement was open to all federal agencies, what information or data would be required to do so, and describe the financial and accounting scenarios (without the FBI involved in this instance) Identify and describe your audit policy and requirements 4

INSTRUCTIONS FOR RFI SUBMISSIONS After assessment of the above information, interested parties may submit a response in an electronic format only, to Ms. Tashona Beale, Contracting Officer at Tashona.Beale@ic.fbi.gov. Complete RFI response submissions should be emailed no later than 4:30PM (EST) on April 15, 2011 to Ms. Tashona Beale. Electronic files should be in Microsoft Office 2003 or 2007 (Word, Excel and Power Point) or PDF format. All information should be UNCLASSIFIED material only. Any company proprietary information should be marked as such. All Information submitted in response to this RFI should not exceed 66 in total single sided 8 ˝ by 11 pages, with one (1) inch margins and font no smaller than 12 point. Respondents should include as part of their submission: 1. A synopsis of the company's core competencies and corporate information (limit one (1) page). Company name, address, telephone number, a point of contact with e-mail address, Federal CAGE Code, Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS), and Central Contracting Registration (CCR) Number Business size What industry(s) your company operates in 2. A synopsis of the company's capability related to this RFI (limit forty (40) pages). Describe the services available in the industry and how your company's expertise can successfully fulfill the prescribed functions. Do not submit a proposed approach or project plan, only focus on whether your company would be able to meet the requirements. Include the following information: Information on any other Government experience with respect to cloud computing and support services required to deploy, transition, operate and safeguard in-scope services. 3. Responses to "Questions for Responders" and a high-level schedule and cost proposal, as a rough order of magnitude, related to this RFI are limited to 25 pages (including a copy of your SLA). All questions concerning this RFI are due no later than 4:30 (EST) on March 14, 2011. E-mail is the only acceptable method of submission. The Government will not provide any information concerning any questions in response to telephone calls, written, or faxed copies from Contractors. Questions shall be sent to the email address of the Contracting Officer at the following email address: tashona.beale@ic.fbi.gov. Should any questions be received after the date stated above, the Government reserves the right not to provide an answer. If, however, in the Government's opinion, a late question cites an issue of significant importance, the Government may provide written responses to all Contractors. SOLICITATION NUMBER No solicitation exists at this time; therefore, do not request a copy of this solicitation. Vendors who provide a response to this RFI will be given a higher rating in the Past Performance /Management Abilities in the event of a potential solicitation. DISCLAIMER All information contained within this RFI is subject to change. Vendors are responsible for monitoring; www.fbo.gov for additional updates and issuances. Vendors are responsible for classifying any information as proprietary. The Government will not notify industry with the results of the RFI evaluation. The Government will send an acknowledgement of receipt when an RFI package is received. 5

