52.212-4	CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009)



Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights— 

Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and 

Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.

	(b) Assignment.  The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727).  However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.

	(c) Changes.  Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.

	(d) Disputes.  This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601613).  Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.2331, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.

	(e) Definitions.  The clause at FAR 52.2021, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.

	(f) Excusable delays.  The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.  The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.

	(g) Invoice.  The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized,) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices.  An invoice must include

	(i) Name and address of the Contractor;

	(ii) Invoice date and number;

	(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;

	(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;

	(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading;

	(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;

	(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;

	(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to be notified in event of defective invoice; and

	(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).  The Contractor shall include its TIN only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

	(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferCentral Contractor Registration, or 52. 232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferOther than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures.

	(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.

	(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

	(h) Patent indemnity.  The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.

	(i) Payment.  (1) Items accepted.  Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract.

		(2) Prompt payment.  The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt pay regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

		(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).  If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.

		(4) Discount.  In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice.  For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.

	(5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the— 

(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); 

(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; 

(C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and 

(D) Contractor point of contact. 

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. 

	(6) Interest. 

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. 

(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. 

(iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by  if— 

(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; 

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or 

(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see ). 

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. 

(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: 

(A) The date fixed under this contract. 

(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. 

(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on— 

(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; 

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or 

(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. 

(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. 

	(j) Risk of loss.  Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:

	(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or

	(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.

	(k) Taxes.  The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.

	(l) Termination for the Government's convenience.  The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience.  In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work.  Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination.  The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose.  This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records.  The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.

	(m) Termination for cause.  The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance.  In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law.  If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience.

	(n) Title.  Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.

	(o) Warranty.  The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.

	(p) Limitation of liability.  Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.

	(q) Other compliances.  The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract.

    (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with  relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts;  relating to officials not to benefit; , et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; , Anti-Kickback Act of 1986;  and  relating to whistleblower protections; Section 1553 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 relating to whistleblower protections for contracts funded under that Act; , Fly American; and  relating to procurement integrity. 

        (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 

(1) The schedule of supplies/services. 

(2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws           Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. 

(3) The clause at 52.212-5. 

(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. 

(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. 

(6) Other paragraphs of this clause. 

(7) The Standard Form 1449. 

(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(9) The specification. 

        (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). 

(1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. 

(2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. 

    (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. 

(3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. 

		(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.	



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAR 2009)



INVOICES



In accordance with 52.212-4 section (g) Invoice:  Invoices shall be submitted electronically to the e-mail address shown in Block 18a, page 1.  Protected Microsoft Excel files are the preferred format; however, Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) and Microsoft Word are also acceptable.  For payment and invoice questions contact Accounting Services Division at (304) 480-8300.    



PAYMENT INFORMATION:



Receive a free email notice of your electronic payment.  Register at .



OVERPAYMENTS



In accordance with 52.212-4 section (i) 5 Overpayments:  Accounts Receivable Conversion of Check Payments to EFT:  If the Contractor sends the Government a check to remedy duplicate contract financing or an overpayment by the government, it will be converted into an electronic funds transfer (EFT). This means the Government will copy the check and use the account information on it to electronically debit the Contractor's account for the amount of the check. The debit from the Contractor's account will usually occur within 24 hours and will be shown on the regular account statement.



The Contractor will not receive the original check back.  The Government will destroy the Contractor's original check, but will keep a copy of it.  If the EFT cannot be processed for technical reasons, the Contractor authorizes the Government to process the copy in place of the original check.



MARKING OF SHIPMENTS:



Please ensure that the order number (Block 4) is clearly visible on all shipping/service documents, containers, and invoices. 



PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (SEP 2007)



DTAR 1052.201-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (COTR) APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY (APR 2004)



(a) The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative will be named at award.

 

(b) Performance of work under this contract must be subject to the technical direction of

the COTR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term, “technical direction", includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily.



(c) Technical direction must be within the scope of the specification(s)/work statement.

The COTR does not have authority to issue technical direction that:



(1) constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the

specification(s)/work statement;



(2) constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled, “Changes";



(3) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time

required for contract performance;



(4) changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the

contract;



(5) interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of

the contract; or



(6) directs, supervises, or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees.



(d) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COTR shall confirm oral

direction in writing within five work days, with a copy to the contracting officer.



(e) The contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical

direction issued by the COTR. If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the COTR, or his/her designee, falls within the limitations in (c), above, the contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day.



(f) Failure of the contractor and the contracting officer to agree that technical direction is

within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled, “Disputes"



CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2009)



  	(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

	(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

	__Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

	(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78) 

  	(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). 

__ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). 

	__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). 

	__ (4) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

	__ (5) , Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (). 

	__ (6) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (July 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

	__ (7) [Reserved] 

	__ (8)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

	__ (9)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

	__ (10) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) ( and (3)). 

	__ (11)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

	__ (12) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

	__ (13) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

	__ (14)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

	__ (15) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

	__ (16) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

	_X_ (17) , Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

	_X_ (18)  , Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (APR 2009) (). 

	_X_ (19) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

	_X_ (20) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Feb 2008) (E.O. 13126). 

	_X_ (21) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

	_X_ (22) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

	__ (23) , Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

	_X_ (24) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (). 

	__ (25) , Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

	__ (26) , Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201). 

	__ (27) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .)  

	__ (28)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

	__ (29) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

	__ (30)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

	_X_ (31) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

	__ (32)(i) , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (Feb 2009) (,  note,  note, Pub. L 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 109-53 and 109-169). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of . 

	__ (33) , Trade Agreements (Mar 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

	_X_ (34) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

	__ (35) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

	__ (36) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

	__ (37) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

	__ (38) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

	_X_ (39) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

	__ (40) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

	__ (41) , Payment by Third Party (May 1999) (). 

	__ (42) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

	__ (43)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 



 	 (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (NOV 2006) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Feb 2002) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

	__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

	__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

 

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 



(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xi) of this paragraph in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 



(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) , Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). Applies to subcontracts funded under the Act. 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201). 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 



(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 




CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, AND ATTACHMENTS



SPECIFICATIONS



Requirements for the Inventory Scanners are as follows:



Wall to wall inventory:    Functionality would entail the ability to scan bar-coded Asset Manager v 5.1  tag number and update the equipment Asset Manager v 5.1 /portfolio record fields; inventory date, inventoried by, location, cost center, assignment, user name, and condition.  Key redundant information should not have to be entered for each record, only requiring to be changed when necessary.  Error checking would be enabled on each field to require data input as required for compatibility with master record. Drop down pick lists would be the preferred method, having been downloaded from current Asset Manager v 5.1  Manager v 5.1 tables.   For Cost code field reconciliation, if equipment is scanned into a cost code different than that on record, the scanned cost code value would populate a Proposed to Cost code field.  (Proposed to Cost code field has been customized into database. This field will trigger a customized wizard generated e-mail notification message already in production)    Option to review/update these additional fields; serial number, model, component of, purchase order number, cost, lease number, vendor and receipt date



New equipment receipts:   Functionality to create the skeleton records in Asset Manager v 5.1 Manager v 5.1.  Key redundant information should not have to be entered for each record, only requiring to be changed when necessary.  Bar-coded Asset Manager v 5.1  tag number and serial number could be input into scanner by keypad or by scanning label.   Additional fields input would include; assignment, condition, user name, receipt date, in-service date, location, cost center, purchase order number and cost,  model, manufacture, and vendor. Error checking would be enabled on each field to require data input as required for compatibility with master record.  Drop down pick lists would be the preferred method, having been downloaded from current Asset Manager v 5.1  Manager v 5.1 tables.



Replacement Asset Manager v 5.1 tag number:  Functionality to replace Asset Manager v 5.1 tag number and update the Asset Manager v 5.1 /portfolio record Asset Manager v 5.1 tag field. 



Retire excess equipment: Functionality to scan bar-coded Asset Manager v 5.1  tag number and update Asset Manager v 5.1 /portfolio record fields; location, cost center, assignment, inventory date, condition, lot number, disposed of by and date, cleansing user and date. Error checking would be enabled on each field to require data input as required for compatibility with master record.  Drop down pick lists would be the preferred method, having been downloaded from current Asset Manager v 5.1 Manager v 5.1 tables. 



Print/view transaction reports of all information processed thru scanner.



The scanners and associated software should also have the following features:

•	Compatibility with HP Asset Manager v 5.1  Manager 5.1 

•	Capacity to contain 40,000 records?

•	Upload files from Asset Manager v 5.1  Manager v 5.1 master database for drop down list 	functionality and current equipment Asset Manager v 5.1  record 

•	Data validation/error checking function 

•	Reconciliation, pre-check review all of the data prior to updating the main database to ensure 	data integrity, to identify and correct equipment record discrepancies between scanned data 	and master database  

•	Exception reporting for determining missing equipment

•	Imports or exports ASCII or text data for shared use with other software systems 



Scanning Device Features



•	USB connectivity

•	Charging cradle

•	User Name and Password protection

•	User Profile

	-  to limit user access to appropriate Asset Manager v 5.1 s, cost codes, location, status

	-  to create, edit or deletion of Asset Manager v 5.1 s (preference for device to utilize 		   Asset Manager v  5.1 user profile rights)

	-  Administrative privileges on scanner available only to specific users

•	Barcode Scanner reading code 39 barcode labels

•	Full Keyboard/Numeric entry pad 

•	Fields to scan or key in:

		Barcode number

		Serial number

•	Receiving function for new property, upload existing Purchase Order info to receive Asset 	Manager v 5.1 s into/from.  

•	Capability to review all the changes, new Asset Manager v 5.1 s, inventoried Asset Manager v 	5.1 s before synchronizing

•	Child/parent Asset Manager v 5.1  relationships

•	Audit features 

•	Transfer Asset Manager v 5.1 s from one cost code to another, individually or enmass

•	Transfer Asset Manager v 5.1 s from one location to another, individually or enmass

•	After you have scanned all the Asset Manager v 5.1 s in a given area, you can look on the 	handheld to see which Asset Manager v 5.1 s have not been found in that location

•	Capture electronic signature, date and time, when equipment is delivered/received

•	Equipment track for tracking the chain of custody from when equipment is received until its final 	delivery

•	Configurable data fields to permit renaming, mapping, read only or mandatory usage or free 	text, field pick list which fields to display, upload data for drop-down pick lists of values



Scanner data Input fields

	Bar-coded Asset Manager v 5.1  Tag

	Serial Number

	Location from (look-up table)

	Cost Code from (look-up table)

	Proposed Cost Code? (from look-up table)

	Model (from look-up table)

	Serial Number

	Components

	User name

	Assignment (from look-up table)

	Condition (from look-up table)

	Purchase Order Info 

	Cost

	Purchase date

	Vendor (from look-up table)

	Inventory Date

	Inventoried by user name 

	Barcode Replacement Number

	Lot number




52.212-1	INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2008)



	(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically);  

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 

(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 

(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 

(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 

(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 



GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407 



Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978



(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). 

(ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 

(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. 

(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUNE 2008)



In addition to the items specified in the solicitation provision above, the following information is necessary to enable proper evaluation of offers in response to this solicitation:



Award will be made to the Offeror whose proposal, conforming to the instructions included in the solicitation, is determined to be technically sound, whose pricing is fair and reasonable, and is overall the best value to the  Government, with all evaluative factors considered.



(a)	Evaluation factors are listed as follows:



- Technically Capability:		The Contractor shall provide a technical description of the items being offered 				in sufficient detail.  The government's evaluative factors, in order of importance, 				include meeting technical requirements, functionality, and ease of use in order 				to ensure compliance with the requirement.			



- Past Performance:		The offeror shall provide at least three references or other relevant information 				to include recent and relevant contracts for customers they provided the same 				or similar items for.  The reference information shall include the following:



				Company Name, Point of Contact, Address, Phone Number, Facsimile 					Number, E-Mail Address, Contract Number(s), and a list of the same or similar 				items provided to the company.



				NOTE:  Offerors shall provide current contact information.



- Pricing:			The Contractor shall provide pricing in accordance with Page 2 of the 					Solicitation.



b.	Technical and past performance, when combined, are approximately equal to price.







52.212-2	EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)



	(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.  The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:



	 Technical and past performance, when combined, are approximately equal to price.



	(b) Options.  The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement.  The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).



		(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.  Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.



52.212-3  OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2009)



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision. 

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- 

“Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. 

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 



(b)

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (m) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] 

 (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. 

(7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: 

________________________________________________ 

(8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] 

(i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not an emerging small business. 

(ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows: 

(A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or 

(B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). 

(Check one of the following):

(9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ___________________.] 

(10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. 

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.” 

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary]





(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian or Moroccan end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.” 

 (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian or Moroccan end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian or Moroccan End Products) or Israeli End Products:





[List as necessary]



(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

 

Other Foreign End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary]



(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:



[List as necessary]



(4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

   (1) * Are, * are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

   (2) * Have, * have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and

   (3) * Are, * are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

   (4) * Have, *have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).

 (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] 

(1) Listed end products.



(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2)  Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

		(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

   (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

   (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

   (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

o  TIN: ________________________________. 

o  TIN has been applied for. 

o  TIN is not required because: 

o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

   (4) Type of organization. 

o  Sole proprietorship; 

o  Partnership; 

o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

o  Foreign government; 

o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

o  Other ________________________________. 

   (5) Common parent. 

o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

o  Name and TIN of common parent: 

o  Name ________________________________. 

o  TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that it does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.

(End of provision) 

Alternate I (Apr 2002). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(11) to the basic provision: 

(11) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(9) of this provision.) 

[The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: 

____ Black American. 

____ Hispanic American. 

____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). 

____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). 

____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). 

____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. 

Alternate II (Oct 2000). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(9)(iii) to the basic provision: 

(iii) Address. The offeror represents that its address o is, o is not in a region for which a small disadvantaged business procurement mechanism is authorized and its address has not changed since its certification as a small disadvantaged business concern or submission of its application for certification. The list of authorized small disadvantaged business procurement mechanisms and regions is posted at . The offeror shall use the list in effect on the date of this solicitation. “Address,” as used in this provision, means the address of the offeror as listed on the Small Business Administration’s register of small disadvantaged business concerns or the address on the completed application that the concern has submitted to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier in accordance with 13 CFR Part 124, subpart B. For joint ventures, “address” refers to the address of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture.

 











Number of Employees 

Average Annual Gross Revenues 

__ 50 or fewer 

__ $1 million or less 

__ 51–100 

__ $1,000,001–$2 million 

__ 101–250 

__ $2,000,001–$3.5 million 

__ 251–500 

__ $3,500,001–$5 million 

__ 501–750 

__ $5,000,001–$10 million 

__ 751–1,000 

__ $10,000,001–$17 million 

__ Over 1,000 

__ Over $17 million 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 



_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 





Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 







Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 



SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

BPD-36510-09-0014
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1

24
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

RFQ-BPD-09-0039
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

05/20/2009

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

LESLIE JOHNSON
CODE

05/29/2009 1400 ET BPD-LRJOHNSO
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED OR

9. ISSUED BY

Bureau of the Public Debt Division of Procurement Avery 5F 200 Third Street Attn: Leslie Johnson (304) 480-7131 Parkersburg WV 26101
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X SET ASIDE:

100.00 % FOR:
EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS SOLE SOURCE

SMALL BUSINESS

NAICS:

423430

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS

SIZE STANDARD:

100
13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

X SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

8(A)

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

PUBLIC DEBT - PKB

16. ADMINISTERED BY

BPD

PUBLIC DEBT - PKB BUREAU OF THE PUBLIC DEBT WAREHOUSE 149 19TH STREET PARKERSBURG WV 26101

Bureau of the Public Debt Division of Procurement Avery 5F 200 Third Street Parkersburg WV 26101
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

DUNS:__________________________ THE BUREAU OF THE PUBLIC DEBT INTENDS TO ACQUIRE FIVE (5) SCANNERS WITH THE APPROPRIATE HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH HEWLETT-PACKARD (HP) ASSET MANAGER V5.1, AN ACCOUNTABLE PROPERTY SOFTWARE APPLICATION FROM A SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (SDVOSB). OFFEROR SHALL PROVIDE THEIR OPEN MARKET,
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

JANE A. ONEY
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

24
24. AMOUNT

FIRM-FIXED-PRICE FOR THIS ORDER. Technical and past performance, when combined, are approximately equal to price. Delivery: 30 Days After Award 0001 SCANNERS WITH THE APPROPRIATE HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH HEWLETT-PACKARD ASSET MANAGER v 5.1 By delivering the goods or starting performance on this order, the Contractor is certifying that the items being procured under this contract comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 1998 Amendments. This Section requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology, the goods will provide employees with disabilities with comparable access to and use of information and data as employees who have no disabilities.

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

