	

 NOTIFICATION OF PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS



Background

Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors, established a policy for all Federal agencies to create and use a government-wide secure and reliable form of identification for their Federal employees and contractors. This policy is intended to ensure a more complete, reliable, and trusted identification of individuals and for controlling the access of Federal employees and contractors to Federal physical facilities and information systems.



This notification is issued to applicants for employee and certain contractor positions with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) to describe the personal identity verification policies of this agency.



Applicant Identification Responsibilities

As an applicant for a position as an employee or contractor with the RRB, you are required to do the following in order to complete your application process:

Appear in person before the appropriate RRB official and present two forms of identity source documents to prove your claimed identity. The identity source documents must be in original form and come from the list of acceptable documents shown below. At least one document shall be a valid State or Federal government issued picture identification (ID).

Complete and bring with you the enclosed Standard Form (SF) 85, OPM Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or an equivalent form to provide the required background information; so that a background check can be completed, unless one was previously done, remains on file, and can be referenced. (For additional copies of this form go to .)  

Submit to having your picture and fingerprints taken.



Once a background check has been completed, and no derogatory information is developed, you will be required to:

Appear in person to the authorized RRB official to collect your PIV (Personal Identity Verification) Card. At that time, you will again be required to present a state or Federal government picture identity source document to verify that you are the same individual as the one who applied for the employee or contractor position and submitted the identity information required under this policy.

Accept the PIV Card by signing for the card and acknowledging the related responsibilities.



Responsibilities of Holding a PIV Card

When you are issued a PIV Card, you have the following responsibilities regarding its care and protection. You will be asked to sign a statement acknowledging your responsibilities. Some of the important responsibilities are:

										



You are required to protect your PIV Card from loss or theft. However, in the event that your card is lost or stolen, you must report the loss within 24 hours of noting its disappearance.

You agree that you will not attempt to clone, modify, or obtain data from any PIV Card.

You agree that you will not assist others in gaining unauthorized access to Federal facilities or information.



Protection of Applicant Information

The following information provided by you will be used as part of the process of identity proofing, registration/enrollment, conducting a background investigation, and issuance of a PIV Card:

Applicant’s full name;

Date and place of birth;

Identity source documents; and

Other relevant information useful for proving the claimed identity of the applicant.



This information will be stored in secure electronic media or in locked files. Access to the records is limited to those individuals who have a need to know the information in order to perform official functions under the PIV issuance process. 



Notification of Results of Identity Proofing

If, as a result of the identity proofing process, you are deemed ineligible to be appointed to the position for which you applied and to be issued an official RRB identity document, you will be notified in writing of the identity proofing results. You will also be notified at that time of any additional rights you have under the RRB’s identity proofing processes.



Rights If PIV Card Is Not Approved for You

If you are denied a PIV Card, you have the right to appeal that decision Your appeal should start with a request to the Director of Human Resources to review your case. [Note: If the position/contract you seek is in the Office of Inspector General (OIG), you should appeal to the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the OIG.] Your request must be made within five workdays of receiving notification of the denial, and should specify the basis for your belief that the decision to deny you a PIV Card was incorrect. If you are not satisfied with the decision at this stage, you may make a further appeal to the Director of Administration [or the Inspector General in the case of a position/contract in the OIG] within five workdays of receiving the decision at the initial stage of the appeal.



Correcting Incorrect Information

You have the right to present evidence to correct any information that you believe to be incorrect that is obtained about you as a result of the PIV Card identity proofing, registration/enrollment, and issuance. Such evidence should be presented to the Director of Human Resources [or the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the OIG for a position/contract in the OIG] as soon as you become aware of a decision being made about you based on the incorrect information. A PIV Applicant Representative is available to assist you in removing incorrect 



information from your records. The name of your PIV Applicant Representative is Marvina Sims. She can be reached at telephone number 312-751-4943. 

Privacy Rights 

The information collected during the PIV process may be disclosed in accordance with the Railroad Retirement Board’s published routine uses as stated in System of Records RRB-46 and RRB-48 and as otherwise permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a), including disclosure: to the Office of Personnel Management, the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Federal Labor Relations Authority upon an authorized request; to agencies, contractors, and others to administer personnel and payroll systems, for debt collection and for employment or security investigations; to law enforcement agencies if the Railroad Retirement Board becomes aware of a possible violation of a law or regulation; to a Congressional office in response to requests made on your behalf; to the Department of Justice, courts, and counsel during litigation; to unions if needed to perform their authorized duties; to other agencies under approved computer matches; and as otherwise authorized by law or regulations.

 

Violations of Privacy

Any person who knowing and willfully discloses information in violation of the Privacy Act is subject to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties.



Please contact the Bureau of Human Resources (312/751-4580) with any questions regarding the information contained in this notice.



CERTIFICATION OF EIT ACCESSIBILITY

I do hereby certify, as the designated representative of the offeror, to the best of my knowledge, that the Information Technology products or services offered herein, in response to the government solicitation number (above), do hereby meet the Electronics and Information Technology Accessibility Standards checked below (use “X” or “”) under the designated categories.



						 					

		(Signature)					(Date)



													

	Name (F,L, MI)					Title





Subpart B - Technical Standards



  § 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems.



When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a keyboard where the function itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually.

Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified as accessibility features, where those features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable activated features of any operating system that are identified as accessibility features where the application programming interface for those accessibility features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer.

A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input focus changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that assistive technology can track focus and focus changes.

Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and state of the element shall be available to assistive technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text.

When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the meaning assigned to those images shall be consistent throughout an application's performance.

Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The minimum information that shall be made available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes.

Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes.

When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user.

Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a range of contrast levels shall be provided.

Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.



  § 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.



A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content).

Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation.

Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup.

Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet.

Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map.

Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape.

Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.

Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers.

Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation.

Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes.

When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with functional text that can be read by assistive technology.

When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with §1194.21(a) through (l).

When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links.

When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.



Note to §1194.22: 1. The Board interprets paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section as consistent with the following priority 1 Checkpoints of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG 1.0) (May 5, 1999) published by the Web Accessibility Initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium: 





2. Paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section are different from WCAG 1.0. Web pages that conform to WCAG 1.0, level A (i.e., all priority 1 checkpoints) must also meet paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section to comply with this section. WCAG 1.0 is available at . 





  § 1194.23 Telecommunications products.



Telecommunications products or systems which provide a function allowing voice communication and which do not themselves provide a TTY functionality shall provide a standard non-acoustic connection point for TTYs. Microphones shall be capable of being turned on and off to allow the user to intermix speech with TTY use.

Telecommunications products which include voice communication functionality shall support all commonly used cross-manufacturer non-proprietary standard TTY signal protocols.

Voice mail, auto-attendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems shall be usable by TTY users with their TTYs.

Voice mail, messaging, auto-attendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems that require a response from a user within a time interval, shall give an alert when the time interval is about to run out, and shall provide sufficient time for the user to indicate more time is required.

Where provided, caller identification and similar telecommunications functions shall also be available for users of TTYs, and for users who cannot see displays.

For transmitted voice signals, telecommunications products shall provide a gain adjustable up to a minimum of 20 dB. For incremental volume control, at least one intermediate step of 12 dB of gain shall be provided.

If the telecommunications product allows a user to adjust the receive volume, a function shall be provided to automatically reset the volume to the default level after every use.

Where a telecommunications product delivers output by an audio transducer which is normally held up to the ear, a means for effective magnetic wireless coupling to hearing technologies shall be provided.

Interference to hearing technologies (including hearing aids, cochlear implants, and assistive listening devices) shall be reduced to the lowest possible level that allows a user of hearing technologies to utilize the telecommunications product.

Products that transmit or conduct information or communication, shall pass through cross-manufacturer, non-proprietary, industry-standard codes, translation protocols, formats or other information necessary to provide the information or communication in a usable format. Technologies which use encoding, signal compression, format transformation, or similar techniques shall not remove information needed for access or shall restore it upon delivery.

Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys, shall comply with the following:

Controls and keys shall be tactilely discernible without activating the controls or keys.

Controls and keys shall be operable with one hand and shall not require tight grasping, pinching, or twisting of the wrist. The force required to activate controls and keys shall be 5 lbs. (22.2 N) maximum.

If key repeat is supported, the delay before repeat shall be adjustable to at least 2 seconds. Key repeat rate shall be adjustable to 2 seconds per character.

The status of all locking or toggle controls or keys shall be visually discernible, and discernible either through touch or sound.



  § 1194.24 Video and multimedia products.



All analog television displays 13 inches and larger, and computer equipment that includes analog television receiver or display circuitry, shall be equipped with caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed captions from broadcast, cable, videotape, and DVD signals. As soon as practicable, but not later than July 1, 2002, widescreen digital television (DTV) displays measuring at least 7.8 inches vertically, DTV sets with conventional displays measuring at least 13 inches vertically, and stand-alone DTV tuners, whether or not they are marketed with display screens, and computer equipment that includes DTV receiver or display circuitry, shall be equipped with caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed captions from broadcast, cable, videotape, and DVD signals.

Television tuners, including tuner cards for use in computers, shall be equipped with secondary audio program playback circuitry.

All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain speech or other audio information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be open or closed captioned.

All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain visual information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be audio described.

Display or presentation of alternate text presentation or audio descriptions shall be user-selectable unless permanent.





  § 1194.25 Self contained, closed products.



Self contained products shall be usable by people with disabilities without requiring an end-user to attach assistive technology to the product. Personal headsets for private listening are not assistive technology.

When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

Where a product utilizes touchscreens or contact-sensitive controls, an input method shall be provided that complies with §1194.23 (k) (1) through (4).

When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does not require the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided.

When products provide auditory output, the audio signal shall be provided at a standard signal level through an industry standard connector that will allow for private listening. The product must provide the ability to interrupt, pause, and restart the audio at anytime.

When products deliver voice output in a public area, incremental volume control shall be provided with output amplification up to a level of at least 65 dB. Where the ambient noise level of the environment is above 45 dB, a volume gain of at least 20 dB above the ambient level shall be user selectable. A function shall be provided to automatically reset the volume to the default level after every use.

Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a range of color selections capable of producing a variety of contrast levels shall be provided.

Products shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

Products which are freestanding, non-portable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with the following:

The position of any operable control shall be determined with respect to a vertical plane, which is 48 inches in length, centered on the operable control, and at the maximum protrusion of the product within the 48 inch length (see  of this part).

Where any operable control is 10 inches or less behind the reference plane, the height shall be 54 inches maximum and 15 inches minimum above the floor.

Where any operable control is more than 10 inches and not more than 24 inches behind the reference plane, the height shall be 46 inches maximum and 15 inches minimum above the floor.

Operable controls shall not be more than 24 inches behind the reference plane (see  of this part).



  § 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.



All mechanically operated controls and keys shall comply with §1194.23 (k) (1) through (4).

If a product utilizes touchscreens or touch-operated controls, an input method shall be provided that complies with §1194.23 (k) (1) through (4).

When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does not require the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided.

Where provided, at least one of each type of expansion slots, ports and connectors shall comply with publicly available industry standards.



Subpart C -- Functional Performance Criteria



  § 1194.31 Functional performance criteria.

At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user vision shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided.

At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall be provided in audio and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by people who are visually impaired shall be provided.

At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided.

Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be provided in an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided.

At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user speech shall be provided, or support for assistive technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided.

At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require fine motor control or simultaneous actions and that is operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.



Subpart D -- Information, Documentation, and Support



  § 1194.41 Information, documentation, and support.



Product support documentation provided to end-users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request, at no additional charge.

End-users shall have access to a description of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in alternate formats or alternate methods upon request, at no additional charge.

Support services for products shall accommodate the communication needs of end-users with disabilities.



(End of Certification)


Figures to Part 1194 




1. Section 508 does not apply to national security systems, as that term is defined in section 5142 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1452). 



2. The Access Board is an independent Federal agency established by section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 792) whose primary mission is to promote accessibility for individuals with disabilities. The Access Board consists of 25 members. Thirteen are appointed by the President from among the public, a majority of who are required to be individuals with disabilities. The other twelve are heads of the following Federal agencies or their designees whose positions are Executive Level IV or above: The departments of Health and Human Services, Education, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Labor, Interior, Defense, Justice, Veterans Affairs, and Commerce; the General Services Administration; and the United States Postal Service. 



3. Whenever the Access Board revises its standards, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council is required to revise the FAR, and each appropriate Federal agency is required to revise its procurement policies and directives within six months to incorporate the revisions. 



4. 48 CFR Chapter 1, part 2, §2.101 Definitions Information Technology (c).



Section 1194.22 Paragraph

WCAG 1.0 Checkpoint

(a)

1.1

(b)

1.4

(c)

2.1

(d)

6.1

(e)

1.2

(f)

9.1

(g)

5.1

(h)

5.2

(i)

12.1

(j)

7.1

(k)

11.4Rules Regarding Privacy and Security of Data



1.	The RRB’s rules are summarized in the following publications:



	a)	Privacy Act Information











b)	Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Publication 1075, Tax Information and Security Guidelines for Federal, State and Local Agencies







	c)	RRB’s Privacy System of Records







2.	Anticipated threats and hazards that the contractor must guard against.



Data stored on equipment following the completion of the project.



Data removal process not including eradication methods.



Contractor employees not fully versed in responsibilities with respect to Privacy and Security.



Contractor accessing RRB data from unauthorized sites.



3.	Safeguards that the contractor must specifically provide include a contractor having access to RRB data should have in place preventive measures to assure that:



Accessed data is not retained in contractor files or on contractor’s equipment.  



Data temporarily housed on contractor’s equipment must be eradicated, the space not just marked for reuse.



All contractor staff members are made aware of their responsibilities with respect to Privacy and Security.



Contractor access to RRB data is limited to RRB approved sites.



4.	Inspection of contractor’s premises.



RRB reserves the right to have an inspection program during performance of the contract to ensure the continued efficacy and efficiency of safeguards and the discovery and countering of new threats and hazards.SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF 6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

RRB11Q007
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

08/01/2011
8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

velinda.nix@rrb.gov
CODE

312/751-3387-751-4923 (fax) 08/24/2011
10. THIS ACQUISITON IS UNRESTRICTED OR SET ASIDE: % FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

U.S. Railroad Retirement Board Acquisition Management-Procurement 844 North Rush Street Chicago, IL 60611
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

SMALL BUSINESS NAICS: SIZE STANDARD:

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

8(A)

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) CODE 16. ADMINISTERED BY

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE RFP

U.S. Railroad Retirement Board Officr of the Inspector General, 844 North Rush Street Chicago, IL 60611 17a. CONTRACTOR/
OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

U.S. Railroad Retirement Board Acquisition Management-Procurement, 844 North Rush Street Chicago, IL 60611
CODE

U.S. Railroad Retirement Board Bureau of Fiscal Operations 844 North Rush Street Chicago, IL 60611
TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

1

Disaster Recovery Services - See Attached Sheets

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND

2

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

Paul T. Ahern
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED:

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER PARTIAL FINAL 38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005)

BACK

Overview



The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is a separate and independent office located within the U.S. Railroad Retirement Board (RRB). The OIG is responsible for conducting, supervising, and coordinating audits and investigations relating to the Railroad Retirement and Railroad Unemployment Insurance Acts.  The Office of the Inspector General is located at 844 North Rush Street in Chicago, Illinois (herein referred to as Headquarters). 



The OIG is a child domain of the RRB and has a trust relationship with the RRB domain to access the internet, email routing for its exchange server, Blackberry Enterprise Services and RRB’s applications.

The OIG has its own servers, domain policy, DHCP scope, applications and client workstations in Chicago, Philadelphia (field office) and domicile offices in San Diego, Houston, Miami and Arlington, VA.  The domicile offices access headquarters and RRB resources through the VPN.  



Objective



The OIG seeks disaster recovery services to support its virtual infrastructure, data communication between the OIG and RRB networks for its clients and work space for equipment and OIG employees during disaster recovery testing and disaster declaration.  The disaster recovery services must be of a high quality, high dependability, and contain expert technical assistance as an inherent component in order for the OIG to achieve its mission critical objectives at an alternate location during an interruption of operations at its current location.  



Definitions



The following definitions apply for defining and interpreting the requirements of this solicitation package.



Clear/purge - The use of software or hardware products to overwrite storage space on the media with non-sensitive data in accordance with NIST SP 800-88. This process may include overwriting not only the logical storage location of a file(s) (e.g., file allocation table) but also may include all addressable locations. The result is sanitized data which is unrecoverable by laboratory attack methods. 



Cold Site.  A facility equipped with the necessary environmental support systems, including, but not limited to electric power (primary and backup), air conditioning, fire detection and suppression systems, security systems and communications, to support the operation of the computer system resources specified in the OIG's statement of work.  The OIG or its designee will be responsible to acquire and install all computing equipment and software required to establish backup operations at the cold site.  Cold sites will be utilized in the event of a long-term outage after the period of maximum warm site occupancy.   



Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) - The individual designated by the US Railroad Retirement Board to act as liaison between the Contractor personnel and the agency.  (See Provision IV.B.12 – Technical Direction)



Disaster.  Any unplanned event or condition that renders OIG unable to occupy its headquarters data center.



Hot Site.  A site with full computer systems as well as near-complete backups of user data.  Real time synchronization between the two sites may be used to completely mirror the data environment of the original site using wide area network links and specialized software.  The capacity of the hot site may or may not match the capacity of the original site depending on the organizations requirements.



Network.  A collection of computers connected to each other. The network allows computers to communicate with each other and share resources and information either through a local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) via Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4), with the ability to use IPv6 for WAN based data exchange. 



Warm Site.  A facility that provides a fully functioning datacenter environment for the client. This includes appropriate power, HVAC, fire detection/suppression, security, rack space, telecommunications (voice and data) and onsite installed information technology equipment/materials which are plug to plug compatible and functionally equivalent or superior to our requirements listed in Section III, the SOW.  



II.	Price Schedule



001	As an option, the offeror shall enter a firm-fixed monthly price to provide a warm-site disaster recovery facility at the time of disaster which supports OIG virtual infrastructure, network requirements and work area recovery center as defined in Attachment 2







002	As an option, the offeror shall enter a firm-fixed monthly price to provide a cold-site disaster recovery facility which supports OIG’s network requirements and work area recovery center as defined in Attachment 2. 





003	The offeror shall enter a firm-fixed price to provide semi-annual disaster recovery testing of its facility which supports OIG’s virtural infrustructure requirements and work area recovery center as defined in Attachment 2 










004	The offeror shall enter a firm-fixed price for OIG to declare a disaster at its current facility which supports their virtual infrastructure requirements and work area.  (See Section III.W)





OIG shall negotiate all other fees, and any out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by the Contractor on behalf of the OIG and with prior authorization, shall be invoiced by Contractor as and when incurred.  The OIG shall be responsible for (a) any applicable disaster fees as indicated on a contract, (b) all communications and similar third party charges resulting from the OIG’s use of the recovery resources, (c) all power, fuel and other utility charges resulting from the OIG’s use of the recovery resources, except the initial six weeks of warm site use and scheduled tests under this contract.  



005	The offeror shall provide a “fully loaded” firm-fixed rate to provide technical support services for the Contractor’s proposed disaster recovery services.  (See Section III.W.)  







006	The offeror shall provide a “fully loaded” firm-fixed rate to provide optional Professional Technical support services during the two (2) annual disaster recovery test exercises.  (See Sections III,X and Y.)  The RRB describes “fully loaded” as the price inclusive of   direct wage, fringe benefits, all overheads, general and administrative (G&A) cost, profit and fees, and all travel and per diem costs for the Contractor’s employees to perform the required services at the RRB as stated in the SOW.  Contractor shall provide their company’s description/qualifications required for each category proposed to be employed.  Offerors shall use their understanding of the work area floor to estimate the percentages (%) that each labor category skill set shall be employed on the time and materials phases of the project for the disaster recovery testing exercise(s).

































III.	Statement of Work



The Contractor shall provide two (2) or more disaster recovery facilities, computer systems, network resources and technical professional services specified below to support disaster recovery test exercises and disaster recoveries within twelve (12) hours of a disaster declaration, or when OIG personnel occupy the Contractor’s recovery facility, whichever is sooner.  Any notice may be given by facsimile, and disaster declaration notice may be given orally, provided that, in either case, a signed written confirmation is received within 24 hours thereafter.   



A.	Disaster Recovery Facility Requirements



1.	The Contractor shall provide a fully operational warm site for scheduled tests, and be available within twelve (12) hours of a disaster declaration. The warm site shall be provided for a period of up to six (6) weeks occupancy for each disaster declaration.  The warm site shall be fully compatible and functionally equivalent to the equipment configurations specified in the Statement of Work (SOW) and in Attachment 2.  The Contractor shall provide and maintain physical facilities; equipment; communications; electrical power; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning; security; office and storage space; supplies; training; documentation; technical, operational, and consulting support; and other supplies and services required under this contract. 



2.	The Contractor shall ensure that all supplies and services provided under this contract, including technical and operational support staff, are provided prior to testing (to plan and coordinate test activities), at time of testing, after testing to assess test results, at time of disaster alert, and, in the event of a disaster, within twelve (12) hours of disaster declaration, or at time of Disaster Recovery facility occupancy, whichever is sooner.



3.	The Contractor shall provide semi-annual or annual test time at their designated facilities and technical assistance before, during, and after testing to ensure that the organizations’ disaster recovery plans will be implemented successfully at the Contractor’s disaster recovery facilities when a disaster has been declared.  



	4.	OIG shall perform a post-award inspection of the primary contracted disaster recovery site no later than 90 calendar days after contract award.



		5.	The Contractor shall provide a cold site equipped with the necessary environmental support systems, including, but not limited to electric power (primary and backup), air conditioning, fire detection and suppression systems, physical security systems and data and voice communications, to support the operation of the computer system resources specified in theOIG statement of work.  The OIG or its appointed designee will be responsible to acquire and install all computing equipment and software required to establish backup operations at the cold site.  Cold sites shall be provided for up to one (1) year occupancy for each disaster declaration.



		6	As an option, the Contractor shall provide a fully operational warm site within twelve (12) hours of a disaster declaration.  The warm site shall be provided for a period of up to six (6) weeks occupancy for each disaster declaration.  The warm site shall be fully compatible and functionally equivalent to the equipment configurations specified in Attachment .2



7.	OIG reserves the right to continue usage of the disaster recovery services beyond the periods stated in Section III.1, III.5, III.6, provided that this extended use shall be subject to immediate termination if and when any other subscriber declares a disaster.

 

B. 	Testing



1.	The Contractor shall, at a minimum, make its warm site available for disaster recovery capability testing with the functionality and capabilities in Attachment No. 6. for two (2) annually16-hour tests per year.  The Contractor shall satisfy OIG requests to schedule test time within six (6) months of the date of request, and as far ahead as two (2) years into the future. Tests shall be on dates and times mutually agreeable to between the Contractor and the OIG.



	OIG reserves the right to assign semi-annual or annual disaster recovery testing simultaneously with RRB scheduling.  It is anticipated that the next RRB disaster recovery test will be March 8 at 24:00.  



2.	The Contractor shall send a confirmation letter to the OIG within forty-five (45) calendar days of a test being scheduled.  The confirmation letter shall include the date and time of the test, a copy of the test planning and assessment documentation from the OIG last test, and a test planning form, to be completed by the OIG and returned to the Contractor at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the test.  The Contractor shall then assign a Contractor technical coordinator to review the OIG’s test plan and act as project manager to coordinate test support activities. As follow-up to the letter and the completed test planning form, the Contractor shall call the OIG, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the test, to coordinate all technical and logistical aspects of the test.  During that call, the Contractor shall describe, and the OIG will validate, who is responsible for what activities, and when they will be completed, before, during, and after the test.  After the test, the Contractor and OIG shall provide a written assessment of each others performance and the test results.



3.	If the OIG’s test is canceled by the Contractor prior to the test’s completion due to another subscriber declaring a disaster, or if the OIG’s test cannot be completed due to the unavailability or malfunctioning of the Contractor’s system or network resources, the scheduled test time shall be credited in full to the OIG.  Credited test time shall be rescheduled, at the OIG’s request, either during the current or the following contract year, and/or a mutually acceptable cost reduction shall be negotiated. All tests shall be subject to immediate cancellation or termination, and shall be rescheduled as soon as possible, if and when any other subscriber declares a disaster and requests use of the disaster recovery services being tested.



4.	The OIG may cancel or reschedule reserved test time forty-five (45) or more calendar days before a scheduled test without penalty.



	C.	Security Requirements



The Contractor shall provide each of its facility designated as a disaster recovery site and its component parts (e.g., warm site, cold site, conference room space, storage space, communications and specialized equipment space) an environment to accommodate a sensitive/unclassified system.  Facility security shall include, but not be limited to, the following. 



1.	The Contractor shall provide twenty-four (24) hour/7 days physical access security coverage when the OIG uses its facility.  Security coverage shall be provided for all internal and external facility components.



        	2.	Access to each facility and its component parts shall be restricted by a manned and/or automated access control system which identifies individuals, authenticates identity, validates access authorization, and maintains an audit trail.  At time of occupancy for testing or disaster, the OIG shall provide a list of individuals authorized to access the facility and its component parts.



3.	Written security and emergency procedures shall be in place and posted conspicuously.  Disaster recovery facility access (sign in/out) logs shall be used whenever entering the recovery facility, access will be granted upon verification of the individual by two (2) forms of photo identification.  Acceptable forms of identification shall be, but not limited to, a valid state driver’s license; state ID; or OIG government issued identification.  One form of identification presented shall bear the individual’s signature, at which time a unique access device shall be issued to each authorized person.  Once a person is issued a unique access device, access logs shall be maintained by automated systems and shall be made available to the OIG upon request.  



4.	Each Disaster Recovery facility shall contain fire detection and suppression systems in accordance with applicable Local, State, and Federal regulations.

	

5.	Each Disaster Recovery facility shall contain adequate environmental control systems to sustain continuous operations.  The environmental control systems shall satisfy the original equipment manufacturer’s specifications for its equipment.  The Contractor shall provide environmental control systems, including: heating, ventilation, and air conditioning; uninterruptible and conditioned power supplies for each information system and telecommunication device. The Contractor shall provide a fully operational backup generator at each Disaster Recovery facility within twelve (12) hours of disaster declaration.  The backup generator shall have sufficient capacity to keep the computer systems, air conditioning, lighting, security system, fire detection and suppression system and voice communication facilities operational in the event of a power disruption or interruption during the time of the OIG’s occupancy of the facility.  The vendor shall include as part of their response the amount of time each site is capable of operating self-sufficiently at full capacity before requiring re-supply of fuel. 

 

6.	The Contractor shall maintain reasonable and uniform policies regarding security, safety, scheduling, operations and other procedures for accessing and using the disaster recovery resources during disasters and tests.



7.    	The Contractor shall provide additional disaster recovery services which includes but are not limited to, storage area networks (SAN), long- distance telecommunication  circuits and/or services (e.g., dialup, ISDN, DS1, DS3, Frame Relay, VPN), Internet recovery services, tape handling services, system and network restoration services, disaster recovery planning and consulting services.



D.	Technical Support Services



The Contractor shall provide technical support before (to plan and coordinate test activities), during, and after all tests (to assess test results), during a disaster alert, and during a declared disaster.  The Contractor shall provide systems engineers, software specialists, communication analysts, operations support personnel, facilities maintenance personnel, and all other necessary personnel.  Contractor technical support personnel shall perform functions such as preparing the warm or cold site for OIG occupancy; configuring and maintaining equipment; analyzing and correcting equipment operation, compatibility, and communication problems; and maintaining environmental support systems on a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week basis.

E.	Network Services



The Contractor shall provide a dedicated, high-capacity WAN to connect the Contractor’s disaster recovery facilities.  The OIG or its contracted technical support representative will install and maintain one or more dedicated and/or switched communication lines to access the Contractor’s WAN.  The cost of installing and maintaining those communication lines is the OIG’s responsibility.  The Contractor shall assume all costs of utilizing the WAN.  There shall be no additional cost to the OIG to utilize the WAN to access one Contractor Disaster Recovery facility from another Contractor Disaster Recovery facility, or to ride the Contractor’s WAN from point of access (e.g., the node nearest to the OIG) to point of destination (e.g., a warm site), during testing and/or at time of disaster.



The contractor shall configure and have available high capacity line for the OIG to access the RRB resources at the time of testing and the time and the declaration of a disaster.



The Contractor shall be responsible for providing local service and longdistance telecommunications circuits and/or services.  The Contractor shall provide channel service units (CSU)/digital service units (DSU)/integrated service units (ISU), modems, routers, and cables, etc., to connect the telecommunications circuits and/or services to the Contractor’s WAN, disaster recovery facilities, and computer systems.

  

The Contractor shall make available all communication accesses specified for the OIG (e.g., [1] DS-3 access).



The Contractor shall provide network diagnostic and test equipment for the OIG technical support representative.



F.  	OIG Provided Access



The OIG and/or their designated service provider will manage the installation process of an OIG -provided circuit to a Contractor disaster recovery center or Contractor node.  The Contractor shall assign a representative to help ensure that the infrastructure and equipment are in place to support the installation of an OIG provided circuit.  The Contractor representative shall also act as a single point of contact for the OIG to coordinate all carrier access issues.  The OIG shall be responsible for promptly providing the necessary information and documentation as required by the Contractor to complete the circuit installation.  In the event the OIG occupies other than the primary disaster recovery site, the Contractor shall be responsible for switching all traffic to the alternate site.











G.	General Internet Access



The Contractor shall provide dedicated DS3 Internet access to the OIG upon occupancy of the disaster recovery site during test and actual disaster recovery situations.



H.	Contractor Equipment, Software, Facility, and Network Modifications



1.  	The Contractor shall provide to the OIG, through the (COTR), written notification before making a change that will adversely impact the OIG.  Notification of a planned change to the Contractor’s hardware (including address scheme changes, CPU identification number change), software, firmware, facility and/or network shall be provided at least sixty (60) calendar days prior to date of change.  No changes shall be made that prevent the OIG from successfully testing or recovering its operations.  No additional charges shall be made for equipment changes the Contractor elects to make to upgrade or improve its capabilities.



2.	The Contractor shall provide a list of computer and communications equipment that is then currently available to enhance the warm site configuration.  The OIG may exchange certain components of its configuration for hardware representing newer technology, by giving written notice to the Contractor and signing an appropriate modification to the applicable contract.



ITEM I. INTENTIONALLY OMITTED



	J.	Contractor-Provided Equipment Maintenance



1.  	The Contractor shall provide twenty-four (24) hour/day, seven (7) day/week facility maintenance on all hot, warm or cold site equipment (e.g., computer systems, HVAC).  Preventive and remedial maintenance shall be provided in accordance with the original equipment manufacturer’s specifications.



2.	The Contractor shall maintain vendor-specified proper operating environments at its facilities.  The Contractor shall adhere to vendor-recommended procedures and policies for proper maintenance of the disaster recovery resources, including necessary remedial maintenance and regularly scheduled preventive maintenance.  Contractor warrants to OIG that the disaster recovery resources shall be maintained in a state of readiness at all times, consistent with the Contractor’s obligations under the contract.



	K.	Deliverables



The Contractor shall provide a Security Plan, a Continuity of Operations Plan, and any security review performed for its facilities, systems, and networks which are programmed for OIG’s usage in accordance with the provisions of any contract resulting from this solicitation.  These documents shall be not more than one (1) year old as of the date of proposal submission.

  

1.	The Contractor’s Security Plan shall demonstrate, at a minimum, its ability to enact countermeasures to protect OIG test and disaster recovery operations, and safeguard sensitive OIG information resources.



2.	The Contractor’s Continuity of Operations Plan shall demonstrate their capabilities to support the OIG test and disaster recovery operations in the event that a disaster affects one or more of the Contractor’s disaster recovery facilities, systems, and/or networks.



3.	The Contractor shall provide their updated Security Plan, Continuity of Operations Plan and any security review conducted within ten (10) calendar days after the anniversary date of this contract.	



L.		Section 508 



Under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), acquisitions of Electronics and Information Technology (EIT) supplies and services shall meet the accessibility standards as set forth in Attachment 3 to this solicitation offerors shall complete the certificate at Attachment 3 and certify which accessibility standards the offered EIT products and/or services meet.



M.	The Contractor’s employee shall successfully pass the necessary background/security checks.  Contractor personnel assigned to support the OIG shall be subjected to suitability screening and background investigation, in accordance with Federal regulations.  Background investigation shall include, at a minimum, checking criminal court records and verifying social security number, credit, employment, education records, and reports to determine suitability for employment.  



O.	Government Furnished Resources



1.	The OIG will deliver data tapes to the Disaster Recovery facility at time of testing and disaster.  The Contractor shall provide lockable storage space to stage and store the OIG’s data tapes at the time of testing and disaster.



2.	OIG will be assigning in-house technical and functional personnel to this project to assist in answering questions, conveying an understanding of the OIG’s systems, and other support purposes as necessary.  The OIG COTR will provide such information to the Contractor.

 

P.	Contractor Furnished Supplemental Equipment and Support Services for Disaster Recovery



1.	The Contractor shall provide standard supplies used at Information Technology installations, tape device and work area at the disaster recovery facilities for the OIG’s use at time of testing and disaster.



2.	The Contractor shall either notify OIG of available times to schedule a training orientation at a facility or provide instructions to OIG to conduct a computer based training orientation promptly after execution of the contract.  



3.	All systems and utility software which the Contractor has installed on the equipment used to provide the disaster recovery services may be used by the OIG during a disaster or a test.



4.	The Contractor shall provide a conference room to accommodate meetings at its disaster recovery facility for a minimum of 2 individuals at the time of any scheduled testing and 25 individuals at declaration of a disaster. 



Q.	OIG PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO DECLARE A DISASTER



OIG shall provide the Contractor with the list of OIG personnel authorized to declare a disaster after contract award.






	R.	Term of contract

	

The term of any contract resulting from this solicitation shall begin on or before September 29, 2011 for one year with four one-year options.



S.  	OIG Equipment Configuration



The specific IT disaster recovery equipment requirements of the Office of Inspector General are listed in Attachment 2.  The contractors may use functionally equivalent equipment that meets or exceeds the minimum specifications as long as it is compatible with and capable of performing the intended purpose of that equipment.



T.	Audits



OIG reserves the right, at any time, except when the disaster recovery resources are being used during a disaster or a confidential test, to audit, at its expense, the disaster recovery resources to verify the Contractor’s compliance with the contract.  The Contractor also shall permit any regulatory authority having jurisdiction over OIG to inspect the disaster recovery resources.  The Contractor shall, at its expense, have the disaster recovery resources annually reviewed by an independent third-party auditor, whose reports shall be furnished to OIG upon request.



U.     Access and use procedures.  



Access to and use of disaster recovery resources during disasters shall depend upon whether the disaster recovery resources are priority resources or shared resources and, with respect to priority resources, the order in which disasters are declared.  The Contractor shall maintain records of its receipt of disaster declarations, which shall be the exclusive basis for determining the order in which disasters are accommodated.



The OIG shall have priority rights of access to and use of applicable priority resources that are not then being used by other affected subscribers who previously declared disasters.  Use of such priority resources is exclusive for as long as the OIG is entitled to use them under Section III.



The OIG and all other affected subscribers shall have equal rights of access to and use of the applicable shared resources, irrespective of the order in which disasters occurred or are declared.  Use of the shared resources may be exclusive at times, but remains subject to the possible need for shared or allocated use with other affected subscribers.



If applicable priority resources and applicable shared resources are both available, the OIG may choose which type to use.



The OIG shall cooperate with the Contractor and all other affected subscribers as reasonably required under the circumstances, including coordinating the efficient use of disaster recovery resources, to avoid or minimize the need for shared or allocated use of shared resources, and to implement any necessary plans for shared or allocated use of shared resources.



If a multiple disaster is widespread or extreme, then notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Contractor may implement emergency procedures that are necessary, in the Contractor’s reasonable judgment, to allocate disaster recovery resources in order to satisfy the critical needs of affected subscribers, applicable national security interests and comparable concerns.

	

	V.     Attachment



Attachment 2 -OIG Disaster Recovery IT Disaster Recovery Requirements Information on the OIG’s IT Infrastructure and RRB’s Attachments 1 (Information Technology Overview) is an IT architectural Overview of the RRB’s systems contains confidential information. For security reasons, these documents shall be provided to you upon request.  Your request must be on your company’s letterhead.  These attachments will not be submitted with this solicitation document.  Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this attachment is prohibited. All inquiries shall be addressed and/or faxed, 312/751-4923 to:  



		U.S. Railroad Retirement Board

		Ms. Velinda Nix

		Acquisition Management

		844 North Rush Street

		Chicago, IL  60611



	W.	Telephone Support Services



The Contractor shall provide 24-hour support via telephone and email for one year, excluding Federal holidays, from the date of OIG acceptance of the vendor-provided support software programs or database installation, such assistance will be provided at no charge to the OIG.



The Contractor shall provide the OIG with a designated point of contact and shall ensure that its designated representative(s) promptly receive the OIG’s request for  service by providing a local or toll-free telephone number, email address, answering service or pager service during the principal period of support service.



The Contractor shall respond to a service call placed by the OIG within 2 business hours after initial notification to affect the repair of any malfunctioning or otherwise inoperable hardware, software and/or accessory. 



A service request made by 10:00 a.m. Central Time must be resolved by close of business of the same business day.  The OIG envisions phone consultation services to be provided within two hours of a request under this support agreement for the basic one year term with (4) one-year options following the warranty period for equipment listed in Attachment 4.  



The Contractor should provide any support services they deem necessary to ensure successful testing period, recovery execution and/or, post completion of testing, or recovery efforts during the principal period of support service.



	X. 	Optional Professional Technical Support



The OIG requires contractual assistance for each disaster recovery testing exercise to setup the recovery of the OIG Child domain.  OIG envisions these services being performed simultaneous with RRB.  RRB’s tentative date for disaster recovery testing exercise is presently scheduled for March 8, 2012.  The contractor’s employee(s) shall provide the following restoration services, which include but not limited to, at the disaster recovery test site:



Recovery of Active Directory 

Recovery of Domain Controller

Virtualization infrastructure

Storage array

Recovery of Exchange Server

Recovery of File Server

Installation and configuration of Tape Backup System

Installation and configuration of Antivirus Software

Installation and configuration of Cisco Hardware and Software

Installation of network printer



The OIG shall designate the level of effort required for each disaster recovery testing exercise by issuing a task order for any or all of the functions listed above to be performed.  The OIG shall give the contractor sixty (60) days notice of the proposed disaster recovery test date.  The contractor shall respond within ten (10) days of its availability or propose an alternate date.  The OIG shall provide 60 days notice of its intent to invoke the Disaster Recovery Testing for Professional Services.



The OIG requires that detailed written documentation be prepared for all tasks performed under Section III, X.  The documentation should be written so that a person with minimum computer knowledge would be able to perform the tasks.  



The documentation shall be in electronic format (Microsoft Word or Adobe) and is due 10 days after a task has been completed. 



Y.	Task Order Procedure for professional consulting services during disaster recovery testing.  (See notes under CLINs 003AA-BE)



1.	Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by task orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The offeror shall furnish to the OIG, when and if ordered, the services specified by each task order.

	

2.	Any optional services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of firm, fixed price, task orders negotiated by OIG officials to be designated by the Contracting Officer.



a.	All deliverables ordered shall be delivered no later than the delivery dates set forth in each task order.



b.	All task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of any contract resulting from this solicitation.  In the event of conflict between a task order and the contract, the contract shall control.



c.	If mailed, a task order is considered “issued” when the government deposits the order in the mail or obtains a read receipt or facsimile confirmation.  Task Orders under this contract may be issued orally or by facsimile or electronically via email.



3.	The task order process shall be incorporated and used to the greatest extent possible, taking into consideration the complexity of the tasks and urgency of requirements.



Task Order Process



a.	OIG issues a Task Order Request for Quotation (RFQ) that includes a Statement of Work (SOW) or Statement of Objectives (SOO) to contractor;

b.	The contractor prepares and submits, usually within five (5) business days, a task order proposal that includes their Statement of Work to fulfill the government requirements in the task order RFQ and that clarifies the task(s) and provides any assumptions and dependencies. The task order proposal also identifies key task activities and resources; proposes an acceptance plan and a timeline schedule; defines roles and responsibilities; and provides a price proposal. The Task order price proposal provides skill levels, labor hour rates (as set forth in the contract), the number of planned hours per skill level, as well as any associated travel costs or other costs necessary to perform tasks and provide deliverables.  [Travel costs includes all per diem, airfare, hotel and local travel costs at both the project staff person’s point of origin and locally in Chicago e.g. taxi fares, etc. The contractors proposed travel costs should be prepared in accordance with the guidance and rates of the Federal Travel Regulation];

c.	OIG reviews contractor’s proposal and negotiates revisions based on discussions and/or clarifications;

d.	Both parties agree to finalized and complete task order requirements;

e.	OIG issues final task order to contractor. 



Z.	Use and Disposition of Government SuppliedData (reports/files/computer tapes/discs, drives)



1.	Any data given to the Contractor by the Government shall be used only for the performance of the contract unless the contracting officer specifically permits another use, in writing.  Should the contracting officer permit the Contractor the use of Governmentsupplied data for a purpose other than solely for performance of this contract and, if such use could result in a commercially viable product, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor must negotiate a financial benefit to the Government.  This benefit should most often be in the form a reduction in the price of the contract; however, the Contracting Officer may negotiate any other benefits he/she determines are adequate compensation for the use of these data.



2.	Upon the request of the Contracting Officer, or the expiration date of this contract, whichever shall come first, the Contractor shall return or destroy all data given to the Contractor by the Government.  However, the Contracting Officer may direct that the data be retained by the Contractor for specific period of time, which period shall be subject to agreement by the Contractor.  Whether the data are to be returned, retained or destroyed shall be the decision of the Contracting Officer with the exception that the Contractor may refuse to retain the data. The Contractor shall retain no data, copies of data, or parts thereof, in any form, when the Contracting Officer directs that the data be returned or destroyed.  If the data are to be destroyed, the Contractor shall directly furnish evidence of such destruction in a form the Contracting Officer shall determine is adequate.   At the end of the contract, prior to the final payment, the contractor will certify in writing that they have met these requirements.  



3.	 All the data processed, captured, printed or stored in any media format during the	 performance of this contract will be completely purged from any non OIG system and no output retained after disaster recovery testing or when occupancy to the disaster recovery facility is no longer required. The contractor shall provide a certificate stating 

all data provided by the OIG was purged, when it was purged, and how it was purged to the Inspector General prior to final completion of the contract. 

I will contact the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations at 312 751-3344 immediately if there is a potential or actual loss of Sensitive Business Information (SBI) or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) in any RRB-OIG information that is entrusted to my care.

I have read the following Privacy Act information on the RRB-OIG Web site and understand the importance of preserving the privacy of individuals:

The contractor shall follow the appropriate purge techniques as directed in the National   Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Special Publications 800-88,  Guidelines for Media Sanitization.  

AA.	TECHNICAL DIRECTION 



Performance of the work under this contract shall be subject to the technical direction of the Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR).  The term “technical direction” is defined to comprise the following:



Directions to the Contractor which redirect the contract effort, shift work emphasis between work areas or tasks, require pursuit of certain lines of inquiry, fill in details or otherwise serve to accomplish the contractual statement of work.



Provisions of information to the Contractor which assists in the interpretation of drawings, specifications or technical portions of the work description.  



Review and, where required by the contract, approve technical reports, drawings, specifications and technical information to be delivered by the Contractor to the Government under this contract.



Technical directions must be within the general scope of work stated in the contract.  The COTR does not have the authority to and may not issue any direction which (1) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the general scope of the contract; (2) constitutes a change as defined in the contract article entitled “Changes”; (3) in any manner causes an increase or decrease in the estimated cost or the time required for contract performance; or (4) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract.



The Contractor shall proceed promptly with the performance of technical directions duly issued by the COTR in the manner prescribed by this Section and within his authority under the provisions of this Section.  If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any instruction or direction issued by the COTR is within one of the categories as defined in (1) through (4) above, the Contractor shall not proceed but shall notify the Contracting Officer within five (5) working days after receipt of any such instruction or direction and shall request the Contracting Officer to modify the contract accordingly.  Upon receiving such notification from the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification or advise the Contractor in writing that, in his opinion, the technical direction is within the scope of this Section and does not constitute a change under the Changes article of the contract.  The Contractor shall thereupon proceed immediately with the direction given.  A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of the instruction or direction or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto shall be subject to the provisions of the contract article entitled “Disputes”.



AB.	Contracting Officer:



The Contracting Officer has the overall responsibility for the administration of this contract. He alone, without delegation, is authorized to take actions on behalf of the Government to:  amend, modify or deviate from the contract terms, conditions, requirements, specifications, details and/or delivery schedules; make final decisions on disputed deductions from contract payments for nonperformance or unsatisfactory performance; terminate the contract for convenience or default; issue final decisions regarding contract questions or matters under dispute.  He may, however, delegate certain other responsibilities to his authorized representatives including the COTR and the Contractor Administrator.



IV.	CONTRACT CLAUSES and PROVISIONS



A.	Security Provisions and Clauses



1.	Security Information:



	The RRB/OIG is a social insurance agency. Privileged information for railroad employees and dependent beneficiaries is accessible from all mainframe terminals, terminal sessions on desktop PC workstations, and VLAN/WAN servers.  Privileged information is also available in paper form, data disks, and data tapes throughout the Chicago headquarters facility and remote offices.  Access to, and use of, this information is covered under the Privacy Act of 1975 and other U.S. Codes.  



2.	PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS FAR 52.2391, (AUG 1996)



(a) The Contractor shall not publish or disclose in any manner, without the Contracting Officer's written consent, the details of any safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor under this contract or otherwise provided by the Government.



(b) To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Government data, the Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor's facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases.



(c) If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either the Government or the Contractor, or if existing safeguards have ceased to function, the discoverer shall immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party.



(d) Each agency has its own rules regarding privacy and security of data.  The RRB’s rules are summarized in the following publications:



(1) Privacy Act Information









(2) RRB’s Privacy System of Records.  RRB’s Medicare Part B records are reflected as RRB-3 in the link below.





 (e) Anticipated threats and hazards that the Contractor must 

guard against:



(1) Data stored on equipment following the completion of the project.

(2) Data removal process not including eradication methods.

(3) Contractor employees not fully versed in responsibilities with respect to Privacy and Security.

(4) Contractor accessing RRB data from unauthorized sites.



(f) Safeguards that the Contractor must specifically provide include:



A Contractor having access to RRB data should have in place preventive measures to assure that:



(1) Accessed data is not retained in Contractor files or on Contractor’s equipment.  

(2) Data temporarily housed on Contractor’s equipment must be eradicated, the space not just marked for reuse.

(3) All Contractor staff members are made aware of their responsibilities with respect to Privacy and Security.

(4) Contractor access to RRB data is limited to RRB-OIG approved sites.   At the end of the contract, prior to the final payment, the contractor will certify in writing that they have met these requirements. 



3.	Dissemination of Information



a.	Data and information either provided to the Contractor or to any subcontractor or generated by activities under the proposed contract shall be privileged.  Unless instructed to do so by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor, and any subcontractor, shall be restricted from duplicating, using or disclosing such data or information, in whole or in part, outside of the RRB for any purpose other than the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract.



b.	This restriction does not limit the Contractor’s right to use such data or information if it is obtained from a nonrestricted source. Any questions about “privileged information” shall be referred to the Contracting Officer.



4.	Rights in Data—Special Works (Dec 2007)



(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Data” means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. 

“Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 

(b) Allocation of Rights. 

(1) The Government shall have— 

(i) Unlimited rights in all data delivered under this contract, and in all data first produced in the performance of this contract, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause. 

(ii) The right to limit assertion of copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract, and to obtain assignment of copyright in that data, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(iii) The right to limit the release and use of certain data in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. 

(2) The Contractor shall have, to the extent permission is granted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, the right to assert claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(c) Copyright— 

(1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. 

(i) The Contractor shall not assert or authorize others to assert any claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this contract without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer. When copyright is asserted, the Contractor shall affix the appropriate copyright notice of  and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number) to the data when delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. The Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paidup, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all delivered data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. 

(ii) If the Government desires to obtain copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract and permission has not been granted as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall direct the Contractor to assign (with or without registration), or obtain the assignment of, the copyright to the Government or its designated assignee. 

(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract and that contain the copyright notice of , unless the Contractor identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. 

(d) Release and use restrictions. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced in the performance of this contract, nor authorize others to do so, without written permission of the Contracting Officer. 

(e) Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication, or use of any data furnished under this contract; or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor’s consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and these provisions do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies.



5.	Subcontracts



The Contractor shall not subcontract any function or duty of this contract to a third party without the prior written consent and approval of the Government.  The Contractor shall be held responsible for the performance of all subcontractors and will not be relieved of any responsibility in the event of nonperformance or unacceptable performance by its subcontractors.  The Contractor shall furnish the Government records regarding cost allocation among the subcontracts and shall include this provision in any and all subcontracts awarded under the authority of this provision.



B.	Contract Clauses and Provisions – Commercial Items

Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items, 52.212-5  (May 2011) 



(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). 

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

__ (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

__ (4) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (). 

__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

__ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) ( note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). 

__ (7) , Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). 

__ (8) , Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (9) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

__ (10) [Reserved] 

__ (11)(i)  , Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (12)(i)  , Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of . 

__ (13) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

__ (14)(i)  , Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of . 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of . 

__ (15) , Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (). 

__ (16) , Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (). 

__ (17)(i)  , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) () (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of . 

__ (18) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (19) , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and ). 

__ (20) , Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (). 

__ (21)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (). 

__ (22)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011). 

__ (23)  Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011). 

_X_ (24) , Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). 

_X_ (25) , Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). 

_X_ (26) , Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). 

_X (27) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

__ (28) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). 

_X (29) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

__ (30) , Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 

__ (31) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). 

__ (32) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in .) 

__ (33)(i)  , Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of  (). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) 

__ (34) , Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (). 

__ (35)(i)  , IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of . 

__ (36) , Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513). 

_X (37) , Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (). 

__ (38)(i)  , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (,  note,  note,  note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of . 

__ (39) , Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (, et seq.,  note). 

__ (40) , Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). 

__ (41) , Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (42) , Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (). 

__ (43) , Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (, ). 

__ (44) , Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (, ). 

__ (45) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (). 

_X (46) , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (). 

__ (47) , Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (). 

__ (48) , Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (). 

__ (49)(i)  , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of . 

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] 

_X (1) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (2) , Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

__ (7) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

__ (8) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at , Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR , Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause— 

(i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) [Reserved] 

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) ( and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause . 

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 



(End of clause)

2.	Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items, 2.212-4   (June 2010) 



(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights— 

(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and 

(2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. 

(b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. 

(c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. 

(d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR , Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. 

(e) Definitions. The clause at FAR , Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. 

(f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. 

(g) Invoice. 

(1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include— 

(i) Name and address of the Contractor; 

(ii) Invoice date and number; 

(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; 

(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; 

(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; 

(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; 

(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; 

(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and 

(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. 

(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. 

(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. 

(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or , Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. 

(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. 

(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act () and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. 

(h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. 

(i) Payment.— 

(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. 

(2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act () and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. 

(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see (b) for the appropriate EFT clause. 

(4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. 

(5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the— 

(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); 

(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; 

(C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and 

(D) Contractor point of contact. 

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. 

(6) Interest. 

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. 

(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. 

(iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by  if— 

(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; 

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or 

(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see ). 

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. 

(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: 

(A) The date fixed under this contract. 

(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. 

(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on— 

(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; 

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or 

(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. 

(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. 

(j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: 

(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or 

(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. 

(k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. 

(l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. 

(m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. 

(n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. 

(o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. 

(p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. 

(q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. 

(r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with  relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts;  relating to officials not to benefit; , et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; , Anti-Kickback Act of 1986;  and  relating to whistleblower protections; , Fly American; and  relating to procurement integrity. 

(s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 

(1) The schedule of supplies/services. 

(2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. 

(3) The clause at . 

(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. 

(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. 

(6) Other paragraphs of this clause. 

(7) The . 

(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(9) The specification. 

(t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). 

(1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. 

(2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR , the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of ; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. 

The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. 

(ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. 

(3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see , Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. 

(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

(End of clause) 

C.	Miscellaneous Clauses and Provisions

1.	Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel, 52.204-9 (Jan 2011)



(a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. 

(b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government: 

(1) When no longer needed for contract performance. 

(2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee’s employment. 

(3) Upon contract completion or termination. 

(c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. 

(d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. 

(End of clause) 

2.	Option to Extend the Term of the Contract, 52.217-9   (Mar 2000) 



(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years. 

(End of clause) 

3.	Employment Eligibility Verification, 52.222-54  (Jan 2009) 



(a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item”— 

(1) Means any item of supply that is— 

(i) A commercial item (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition at ); 

(ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and 

(iii) Offered to the Government, without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and 

(2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (), such as agricultural products and petroleum products. Per 46 CFR 525.1 (c)(2), “bulk cargo” means cargo that is loaded and carried in bulk onboard ship without mark or count, in a loose unpackaged form, having homogenous characteristics. Bulk cargo loaded into intermodal equipment, except LASH or Seabee barges, is subject to mark and count and, therefore, ceases to be bulk cargo. 

“Employee assigned to the contract” means an employee who was hired after November 6, 1986, who is directly performing work, in the United States, under a contract that is required to include the clause prescribed at . An employee is not considered to be directly performing work under a contract if the employee— 

(1) Normally performs support work, such as indirect or overhead functions; and 

(2) Does not perform any substantial duties applicable to the contract. 

“Subcontract” means any contract, as defined in , entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. It includes but is not limited to purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders. 

“Subcontractor” means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime Contractor or another subcontractor.  “United States”, as defined in , means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 

(b) Enrollment and verification requirements. 

(1) If the Contractor is not enrolled as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify at time of contract award, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Enroll. Enroll as a Federal Contractor in the E-Verify program within 30 calendar days of contract award; 

(ii) Verify all new employees. Within 90 calendar days of enrollment in the E-Verify program, begin to use E-Verify to initiate verification of employment eligibility of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); and 

(iii) Verify employees assigned to the contract. For each employee assigned to the contract, initiate verification within 90 calendar days after date of enrollment or within 30 calendar days of the employee’s assignment to the contract, whichever date is later (but see paragraph (b)(4) of this section). 

(2) If the Contractor is enrolled as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify at time of contract award, the Contractor shall use E-Verify to initiate verification of employment eligibility of— 

(i) All new employees. 

(A) Enrolled 90 calendar days or more. The Contractor shall initiate verification of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); or 

(B) Enrolled less than 90 calendar days. Within 90 calendar days after enrollment as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify, the Contractor shall initiate verification of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); or 

(ii) Employees assigned to the contract. For each employee assigned to the contract, the Contractor shall initiate verification within 90 calendar days after date of contract award or within 30 days after assignment to the contract, whichever date is later (but see paragraph (b)(4) of this section). 

(3) If the Contractor is an institution of higher education (as defined at ); a State or local government or the government of a Federally recognized Indian tribe; or a surety performing under a takeover agreement entered into with a Federal agency pursuant to a performance bond, the Contractor may choose to verify only employees assigned to the contract, whether existing employees or new hires. The Contractor shall follow the applicable verification requirements at (b)(1) or (b)(2) respectively, except that any requirement for verification of new employees applies only to new employees assigned to the contract. 

(4) Option to verify employment eligibility of all employees. The Contractor may elect to verify all existing employees hired after November 6, 1986, rather than just those employees assigned to the contract. The Contractor shall initiate verification for each existing employee working in the United States who was hired after November 6, 1986, within 180 calendar days of— 

(i) Enrollment in the E-Verify program; or 

(ii) Notification to E-Verify Operations of the Contractor’s decision to exercise this option, using the contact information provided in the E-Verify program Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). 

(5) The Contractor shall comply, for the period of performance of this contract, with the requirements of the E-Verify program MOU. 

(i) The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or the Social Security Administration (SSA) may terminate the Contractor’s MOU and deny access to the E-Verify system in accordance with the terms of the MOU. In such case, the Contractor will be referred to a suspension or debarment official. 

(ii) During the period between termination of the MOU and a decision by the suspension or debarment official whether to suspend or debar, the Contractor is excused from its obligations under paragraph (b) of this clause. If the suspension or debarment official determines not to suspend or debar the Contractor, then the Contractor must reenroll in E-Verify. 

(c) Web site. Information on registration for and use of the E-Verify program can be obtained via the Internet at the Department of Homeland Security Web site: . 

(d) Individuals previously verified. The Contractor is not required by this clause to perform additional employment verification using E-Verify for any employee— 

(1) Whose employment eligibility was previously verified by the Contractor through the E-Verify program; 

(2) Who has been granted and holds an active U.S. Government security clearance for access to confidential, secret, or top secret information in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual; or 

(3) Who has undergone a completed background investigation and been issued credentials pursuant to Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12, Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors. 

(e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the requirements of this clause, including this paragraph (e) (appropriately modified for identification of the parties), in each subcontract that— 

(1) Is for— 

(i) Commercial or noncommercial services (except for commercial services that are part of the purchase of a COTS item (or an item that would be a COTS item, but for minor modifications), performed by the COTS provider, and are normally provided for that COTS item); or 

(ii) Construction; 

(2) Has a value of more than $3,000; and 

(3) Includes work performed in the United States. 

(End of clause) 

4.	IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products, 52.223-16 (Dec 2007)



 (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Computer monitor” means a video display unit used with a computer. 

“Desktop computer” means a computer designed for use on a desk or table. 

“Notebook computer” means a portable-style or laptop-style computer system. 

“Personal computer product” means a notebook computer, a desktop computer, or a computer monitor, and any peripheral equipment that is integral to the operation of such items. For example, the desktop computer together with the keyboard, the mouse, and the power cord would be a personal computer product. Printers, copiers, and fax machines are not included in peripheral equipment, as used in this definition. 

(b) Under this contract, the Contractor shall deliver, furnish for Government use, or furnish for contractor use at a Government-owned facility, only personal computer products that at the time of submission of proposals were EPEAT Bronze registered or higher. Bronze is the first level discussed in clause 1.4 of the IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products. 

(c) For information about the standard, see . 

(End of clause)

5.	Service of Protest, 52.233-2  (Sept 2006)



(a) Protests, as defined in section  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from ______________________. [Contracting Officer designate the official or location where a protest may be served on the Contracting Officer.] 



U.S. Railroad Retirement Board

Paul T. Ahern

844 North Rush Street

Chicago, Illinois  60611



(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. 

(End of provision) 

6.	Continuity of Services, 52.237-3 (Jan 1991)



(a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to— 

(1) Furnish phase-in training; and 

(2) Exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor. 

(b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer’s written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer’s approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency. 

(c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor. 

(d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract. 

(End of clause) 

7.	Post-award conference



In order to codify the implementation and procedural issues attendant upon contract performance, a post-award conference will be held at the RRB headquarters facility in Chicago, IL no later than ten (10) business days after contract award.  The Contractor must attend this conference and be prepared to discuss the project milestone events and schedule.  The Contractor will be responsible for all costs related to attending this conference.



8.	Billing



Contractor shall submit detailed invoices with description and quantities for work completed and deliverables submitted and accepted by the RRB or services provided with CLIN pricing as designated in Section II.B. and including dates and descriptions of services.

9.	Option to Extend the Term of the Contract, 52.217-9   (Mar 2000) 



(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. 

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. 

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years. 

(End of clause) 

V.	Proposals and Submissions of Receipt 

	A.	Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items, 52.212-1  (June 2008)



(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the , letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR  (see FAR (b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); 

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the , include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 

(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 

(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 

(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 

(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 

GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407 

Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978. 

(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (). 

(ii) Quick Search (). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 

(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR ) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at . An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. 

(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at  or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. 

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. 



(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: 

(End of provision)



B.	RRB Supplemental Instructions to Offerors



1.	RRB will accept electronically submitted proposals.  If the offeror elects electronic commerce for submission of its proposal, only one hard copy of the entire proposal package must be submitted by the time and date specified in the solicitation to 844 North Rush Street, Acquisition Management-Procurement, Chicago, Illinois  60611.  The agency will accept Microsoft Office 2003 (Word, etc.) or PDF documents, via disk or email.  Electronic submissions shall be sent to .  An electronically delivered proposal not received by the time and date specified in this solicitation shall be handled in accordance with FAR 52.212-1(f), “Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offerors”.



2.	Proposals shall be submitted on or before Noon, Central time August 30, 2011.  Mark outside of the envelope “RRB11R007 Enclosed” and offeror’s name and address.  Address package to:  U.S. Railroad Retirement Board, Acquisition Management-Procurement, 844 North Rush Street, Chicago, IL  60611-2092.  Any further questions regarding this RFQ must be submitted to the RRB by August 9, 2011 and in writing on company letterhead and sent by email to , Acquisition Management - Procurement or faxed to 312/751-4923.



	3.		Business Proposal



The Offeror shall submit two (2) signed copies of Standard Form (SF-) 1449 with Blocks 12, 17a. and b., and 30a., b.,  and c. completed.



The offeror shall complete Section II – The Price Schedule with prices for all Blocks.



Other information the contractor determines appropriate and relevant to the evaluation team.



Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offer(s) which provides for the requirements and options of this solicitation.  The alternative offer must meet and or exceed the mandatory requirements of this solicitation.  Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.



4.	Technical Proposal



a.	The technical proposal shall include a very specific description of the goods and services being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements and the evaluated technical factors of the solicitation.  



b.	The offeror shall fully and clearly address each requirement and evaluated technical factor so that the OIG’s technical evaluation panel can identify and comprehend the capability and resources the offeror intends to bring to this procurement.  		

	

3.	The technical proposal shall provide technical information to substantiate the offeror’s ability to satisfy the requirements in Section III.  All requirements shall be met for an offeror to be considered responsive.



d.	Complete and detailed technical information shall also be provided to facilitate scoring of the four evaluated technical factors (a-d) below.



(1)	Facilities, hardware, and services (100 possible points, 50% of the technical points available).



For technical evaluation, the offeror shall submit a proposal describing the facilities, hardware (e.g., computer systems and network resources), and services that the offeror proposes to provide, including compliance with Section 508 requirements.  The offeror will be evaluated on the content and completeness of the items proposed and its responsiveness to the requirements identified in Section III, the statement of work.   



This could include but not be limited to such items as:



Location of a secondary Disaster Recovery facility having resources at least equal to the requirements identified 

Explanation of how three simultaneous disaster declarations by subscribers having requirements equal or greater than those of the OIG would be handled.

 Explanation of how a regional disaster would be handled.

Optimal primary disaster recovery site distance from OIG headquarters in Chicago.  (More than 20 miles but less than 50)

Flexibility of test times; for example, can the required 16-hour tests begin at any hour of the day as opposed to 12:00 AM to 11:59 PM only

Provision of on-line test planning capabilities

Quality of the offeror’s Security and Contingency Plans and details of the Security Review



	The items listed below are “value added” characteristics desired by OIG.  Consideration shall be given to potential offerors who can demonstrate their ability to provide any or all of the characteristics.



a)  Availability of a mobile data center

b)  Performance enhancements, advantageous features, desirable technical      characteristics, and valuable functionalities, for example, exceeding basic requirements

d) Administrative or operational advantages



(2)	Experience, qualifications, expertise and use of proposed staff (45 points, 22.5% of the technical points available).



(a)	Specific numbers of years of experience, demonstrated qualifications (including all relevant degrees and certifications), and expertise shall be clearly explained and submitted in the following areas:



Specific number of years experience performing disaster recovery planning activities, 

Degrees (Bachelors or higher), certifications, etc. relevant to performing disaster recovery planning activities,  

Specific number of years experience managing and operating disaster recovery sites with architectures similar to the OIG’s needs,

Degrees (Bachelors or higher), certifications, etc. relevant to managing and operating disaster recovery sites with architectures similar to the OIG’s needs.



Offerors shall submit the resumes of the individuals to be assigned to this project.  The staff proposed in this section shall be consistent with the staffing plan and related organization chart presented in item 2, above).  Please identify which individuals will be performing each task.

       

     	      (b) 	Staffing Plan



The staffing plan shall explain and provide details of the proposed staffing and organizational structure to accomplish the requirements described in Section III, the Statement of Work.  An organization chart shall be presented depicting the key project positions by title and shall include a description of the related functions, including supervisory/managerial levels and responsibilities.  This staffing plan shall be consistent with the actual staff proposed in item 3, below.  If sub-Contractors will be utilized, the offered shall explain the relationship between the organizations and how they will control the performance of the sub-Contractors.



(3)	Project Management (35 points, 17.5% of the technical points available).



Describe all management services that you shall provide to support the OIG organization (e.g., Account Manager, Project Manager).  This shall include the purposes, functions, and degree of support to be provided for each of these phases of a potential OIG disaster: 



Disaster Recovery Test Planning and Execution; 

Disaster Alert; 

Disaster Declaration and Recovery; and 

Post-Disaster Relocation.  



This information must be sufficient to assure the OIG that the proposed management will	 ensure the efficient and effective provision of the resources and services that the offeror proposes to provide.    



(4).	Past performance (20 possible points, 10% of the technical points available). Past performance information shall be presented.  



(a)	The offered shall submit, as part of its proposal, information on previously performed contracts or ongoing contracts that are similar to the statement of work in the solicitation performed for Federal, State, Local governments and commercial firms.  Information shall be provided on either: 



all such contracts within the past eighteen months, or 

the last three such contracts performed, whichever is fewer and shall include:



the name and address of the organization for which the services were performed and

the phone numbers of at least two knowledgeable technical contacts for each contract listed.  



(b)	The offeror should not describe past performance history in the proposal.  The OIG will obtain information from the contract references provided by the offeror.  The offeror is advised that the OIG may obtain past performance information from other sources not identified by the offeror.  



(c)	The OIG intends to contact at least three clients for which similar tasks have been performed.  The following performance characteristics shall be evaluated:



Direct applicability of the referenced project to the OIG’s project scope and environment, 

Customer satisfaction, which includes satisfaction of end users with the offeror’s service,

Quality of service, which includes quality and initiative exhibited by the offeror, 

Reliability and timeliness of performance, which includes the offeror’s reliability as well as the ability to perform in a timely manner.

VI.	Evaluation—Commercial Items, 52.212-2 (Jan 1999) 



A.	Business Proposal



1.	The total evaluated price shall be calculated by the extended amounts for CLIN001-005 and their subCLINS and taking the unit rates per labor category x 48/hrs x % of effect proposed by the offeror for CLIN006 and its subCLINs as follows:



CLIN001(A + B + C + D + E) + CLIN002(A + B + C+ D + E) + CLIN003(A + B + C + D + E) + CLIN004(A + B + C + D + E) + CLIN005(A + B + C + D + E) + CLIN006(A + B + C + D + E) = Total Evaluated Price



2.	Calculation of the price score (100 possible points) will be computed by multiplying the maximum point score available by a fraction representing the ratio of the lowest total evaluated price of all technically acceptable offers received by the board to the total evaluated price of the offer being evaluated.  



B.	Technical Proposal



1.	To be considered responsive, the offeror must comply with the format and content specified in Section IV, “Instructions to Offerors”.  Offerors whose proposals are deemed deficient in this regard may be permitted, at the RRB’s discretion, to remedy the deficiency by submitting additional clarifying or supplemental information.



2.	Responsive proposals shall be evaluated to determine the relative technical merit of each response.  Accordingly, the objective of this evaluation is to measure the extent to which proposals meet the requirements as stated in the Statement of Work and the required proposal format and content, Section V.A., “Instructions to Offeror” and V.B. “RRB Supplemental Instructions to Offeror”.



3.	Calculation of the technical score (200 possible points) will be accomplished by adding the points awarded for each rated area.



4.	Technical proposals will be first reviewed for content conformance to proposal preparation instructions.  Proposals that are so deficient in this area as to not warrant further consideration will be rejected and the offeror will be so notified.



5.	The OIG will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the OIG, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:



Proposals shall be evaluated using the following criteria factors and major subfactors in descending order of importance:



Facilities, Hardware, and Services (including advantages of an optional alternative configuration) (100 possible points, 50% of the technical points available)

Experience, qualifications, and expertise and use of the proposed staff (45 points, 22.5% of the technical points available).

Project management characteristics (35 points, 17.5% of the technical points available)  	

Past performance (20 possible points, 10% of the technical points available)



C	The contracting officer shall deem any offer which fails to address all of the mandatory requirements of Section III, the Statement of Work, as non-responsive.



D.	The contracting officer may request clarifications to any proposals after the initial business and technical review and hold discussions as determined necessary.



E.	A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

VII.	Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, 52.212-3   (May 2011) 



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. 

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision— 

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. 

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Inverted domestic corporation”, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at . 

“Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. 

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate— 

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in , with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in . 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Subsidiary” means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned— 

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or 

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at ) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. 

(b) 

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. 

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] 

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. 

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. 

Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. 

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

(10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) , Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.” 

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.” 

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

Other Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR  is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR , Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:

[List as necessary] 

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR . For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals— 

(1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

(2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

(3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and 

(4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. 

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: 

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. 

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. 

(ii) Examples. 

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. 

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 

(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at (b).] 

(1) Listed end products.

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

[  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

[  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. 

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2) o Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

[  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

[  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (, ). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) 

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of , reporting requirements of , and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR , the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

o  TIN: ________________________________. 

o  TIN has been applied for. 

o  TIN is not required because: 

o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

(4) Type of organization. 

o  Sole proprietorship; 

o  Partnership; 

o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

o  Foreign government; 

o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

o  Other ________________________________. 

(5) Common parent. 

o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

o  Name and TIN of common parent: 

Name ________________________________. 

TIN _________________________________. 

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code . 

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that— 

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and 

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. 

(o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. 

(1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. 

(2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if— 

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., (g) or a comparable agency provision); and 

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. 



VIII.	Attachments



Information Technology Overview - RRB 

Information Technology Overview/ Work Area Recovery Center - OIG 

PIV Notice to Employees and Contractors

Section 508 - EIT Accessibility 

Rules Regarding Privacy and Security of Data

Disaster Recovery Testing Work Area Recovery



















WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

WARM SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

QTY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

001A

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012

12

MO





001B

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013

12

MO





001C

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014

12

MO





001D

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2014 – Sept. 29, 2015

12

MO





001E

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2015 – Sept. 29, 2016

12

MO







COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

COLD SITE DISASTER RECOVERY FACILITY

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

QTY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

002A

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2009 – Sept. 29, 2010

12

MO





002B

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2010 – Sept. 29, 2011

12

MO





002C

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012

12

MO





002D

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013

12

MO





002E

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014

12

MO







DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

DISASTER RECOVERY TEST

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

QTY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

003A

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012

2

EA





003B

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013

2

EA





003C

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014

2

EA





003D

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2014 – Sept. 29, 2015

2

EA





003E

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2015 – Sept. 29, 2016

2

EA







WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

WARM SITE DISASTER DECLARATION

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

QTY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

004A

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012



EA





004B

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013



EA





004C

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014



EA





004D

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2014 – Sept. 29, 2015



EA





004E

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2015 – Sept. 29, 2016



EA







TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

TELEPHONE TECHNICAL SUPPORT SERVICES PER III.W.

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

QTY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

005A

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012

12

MO





005B

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013

12

MO





005C

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014

12

MO





005D

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2014 – Sept. 29, 2015

12

MO





005E

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2015 – Sept. 29, 2016

12

MO







PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT

CLIN

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE/ Position/Labor/Skill

%

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

006A



006AB

006AC

Base Yr - Sept. 30, 2011 – Sept. 29, 2012









HR





006B



006BA

006BB

1st Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2012 – Sept. 29, 2013



HR





006C



006CA

006CB

2nd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2013 – Sept. 29, 2014



HR





006D



006DA

006DB

3rd Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2014 – Sept. 29, 2015



HR





006E



006EA

006EB

4th Opt Yr-Sept. 30, 2015 – Sept. 29, 2016



HR











Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 