
January 3, 2013

                                                                STATEMENT OF WORK
                                           Rental of Commercial Digital Meter Machines and Maintenance
                                                       DOC/U.S. Census Bureau – nationwide
                                                            Solicitation #CEN-13-ACSD

BACKGROUND

The Department of Commerce, U.S. Census Bureau (USCB), Administrative and Customer Services Division is responsible for the procurement and/or
rental of digital meter mail machines, nationwide.  In addition to the procurement and/or rental of these machines, there are maintenance
contracts, and rate change protection for each machine.  USCB uses requires the use of two (2) large volume digital postage meters machines at
the Headquarters in Suitland, MD and six (6) large digital postage meters at the Regional Offices, nationwide, respectively.    Postage funds
are sent to the United States Postal Services’ (USPS) Official Mail Accounting System (OMAS) for downloading into USCB’s respective machines.

In order to maintain all postage funds downloaded into the USCB machines, meter reports are received from the vendors that sold and/or provide
rental machines.  The reports contain information such as the meter machine serial number, meter account number, address of the location where
the machine resides, total money downloaded into the machine and date of installation (of the machine).

USCB will continue to use the OMAS for postage accountability due to the nature of our business and the increase in offices in result of the
Decennial Census.

The USCB Mail Manager will act as the point-of-contact for the Government.  Each location that has a rental meter will initiate service calls,
and perform acceptance of the USCB Mail Manager’s authority is limited to technical issues and he/she is not authorized to make contractual
decisions. The authority to resolve monetary issues and contractual interpretation is the responsibility of the Contracting Officer.

OBJECTIVE


USCB is required to supply all Mail Centers with a digital postage-metering machine.  Due to the increase in staffing in the Regional Offices,
each office is required to have a large volume postage meter machine.  The following is a brief description of the meter machine needed:



LARGE commercial postage meter machine:

The requirement for eight (8) large meter mail machines is to provide postal capabilities for large volume of postal requirements.  It should be
a web-based system that allows for one database for all administration and configuration of data over all mail/shipping transactions.  It should
have the ability to process up to 300 letters per minute (without weighing on the move), process envelopes of varying sizes and shapes, have the
ability to support a minimum of at least one departmental account, and offer automatic commercial based pricing.  The system is to interface
with a scale having a minimum capacity of 70 lbs and is international compliant.  In addition, there should also be shape base pricing
integrated and external scale capable of performing postage cost through use of this scale.  There should be an easy to read LCD touch screen
operation.  There should also be the ability to connect to a PC to track and manage postal cost.  It should include a scanner, laser repot
printer and label printer.

The meter should have the capability to accept project information for each piece metered integrated into the Core Financial System for payment
to USPS.  A series of project and accounting information is required to be entered to charge all postage to a division or offices.  This project
information changes often due to depletion of funds.  The system needs to be able to accommodate uploads of project information from HQ to be
incorporated into all the regional office meters for immediate use.  The regional offices should not be able to manipulate or add any project or
accounting information at an office level.  All of this information should be maintained at the HQ level.

The system should supply a rating engine and software for USPS, UPS and FedEx licensing and processing.  It should be able to process mail and
shipments to determine the carrier selection, routing guides, documentation, and reporting requirements for express mail and ground parcels.  It
must be engineered with innovative technology enabling web deployment in an enterprise environment.  It must allow for centralized control,
enforcement and maintenance of business rules.


SPECIFICATIONS

One week after the issue of the purchase order, the vendor will meet with the USCB Mail Manager to develop a meter installation schedule and
completion dates for the installation of the eight (8) commercial digital postage meter machines.

Commercial Postage Meter Machines


USCB needs the rental of 195 secure Information Based Indicia barcode (IBI) commercial digital postage meter machines meeting all requirements
of the USPS Regulations:
|                                                                                                                                           |
|LARGE POSTAGE METERS    (see attached list for locations)                                                                                  |
|QUANTITY:  8                                   |                                                                                           |
|Type of machine:                               |High Performance COMMERCIAL meter for large volume of mail                                 |
|Average monthly postage usage                  |$1,000 - $10,000                                                                           |
|Mail type                                      |Letters & packages up to 5/8" thick                                                        |
|Scale                                          |70 lb w/international or scale for automatic shape base pricing                            |
|Multiple Project Numbers                       |7 digit project, 3 digit task and 4 alpha numeric characters (at least 14 AN long)         |
|Location Identification                        |Each transaction at least 2 digits                                                         |
|Class Identification                           |Each transaction by class (1st class, 1st class – presort, International, 3rd class, 4th   |
|                                               |class)                                                                                     |
|Speed (Letters Per Minute)                     |250 to 300 LPM                                                                             |
|Envelope feeding                               |Automatic feed & seal                                                                      |
|Postage refill method                          |Secure Connection (encryption must be FIPS 140-2 compliant)                                |
|Postal mail classes supported                  |First-Class Mail®, Priority Mail®, Express Mail®, Postcard, Flat Rate, Parcel Post®,       |
|                                               |International                                                                              |
|International shipping                         |Yes                                                                                        |
|Machine Security                               |Yes – Administrative functions                                                             |
|Power                                          |110V-120V, 60 Hz                                                                           |
|Supplies                                       |all inclusive                                                                              |
|USPS IBI Compliant                             |Yes                                                                                        |
|Postal rate updates                            |Automatic                                                                                  |
|Rate Change Protection                         |Yes                                                                                        |


The mail meter needs to be able to accommodate the following: Enter or delete new account numbers; verify valid account numbers; correct account
numbers or class codes by transaction; add or delete users at the regional offices; and delete invalid project numbers annually.



DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT

Delivery

The mail meters shall be delivered at least 15 days after award of this contract.  The Contracting Officer’s Representative will provide the
Contractor in writing the exact dates, times and contact information for delivery of the meters at the six regional offices within 14 days prior
to delivery date.

Removal of packing materials:  Packing materials shall be removed from the USCB facilities after the meters have been delivered, unpacked and
installed.

Installation

The USCB will supply desktop computers and servers for connection to the USCB network.  The system needs to be compatible with the network and
computer supplied.  The Contactor will work with the Census IT section to ensure capability.

The exact dates of installation of the equipment shall be established by the personnel at the seven (7) USCB locations.  All equipment shall be
installed no later than January 7, 2013.  The COR shall have the right to change the final installation date of December 19, 2012, to a later
date if required.  The meter rental charges for each location shall begin on the day that the equipment is installed and the USCB employees at
the site have been trained.  Any maintenance by the contractor shall begin on the date that installation and training for each site have been
completed and run through the period agreed upon by the contractor and the COR.  Maintenance charges shall begin the date after the free period
has terminated. After installation of the above machines, a list containing the address, type and model of postage meter, meter serial number,
meter account number, and date of installation shall be provided.

Equipment Demonstration:  Contractor will provide documentation on the configuration of the mail meter components for each location. The
Contractor shall demonstrate that the equipment is properly functioning at the time of installation. This demonstration shall be accomplished
pursuant to the operating instructions furnished with the equipment and in the presence of the USCB authorized representative.




MAINTENANCE

The Contractor shall provide all preventive maintenance ad emergency service, including replacement parts for the commercial digital postage
meter machine.  The cost shall be part of the annual maintenance contract.  The dates shall be established by each local USCB office acquiring
the meter equipment.  In addition, the contractor shall provide a company or organization name that are served by maintenance servicing offices
along with a contact name and telephone number for each of the USCB locations listed in the attachments.


If the contractor or its maintenance service office does not begin maintenance within four hours of being contacted, or is incapable of
completing routine repairs (repairs not caused by abuse or neglect on the part of USCB personnel) within twenty-four (24) hours of beginning
repairs, the USCB Contracting Office Representative negotiate an acceptable agreement.

Preventive Maintenance: The contractor shall perform preventive maintenance two (2) times per 12-month period to ensure that each mail meter is
maintained in fully operational condition.  Work performed shall include, but not be limited to, cleaning, adjusting, aligning of each
electronic and mechanical component, replacing parts where needed to maintain the machine in good operating condition.  Refresher training shall
be performed during the maintenance periods.  Maintenance shall be conducted between 8:30 am to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal
holidays and other agency closures.


Machine Repair:  The contractor shall provide on-site call maintenance to include all labor and replacement parts.  Repairs shall be made in
accordance with manufacturer specifications. The contractor shall respond within four (4) hours after notification of the repair call. The
contractor shall be responsible for assuring repair is accomplished within twelve (12) working hours of the repair call.  If the machine cannot
be repaired during the call, a replacement meter or loaner meter must be provided within 24 hours of final assessment of the non-repairable
machine to avoid delays in production.


Software/Firmware:    All patches and upgrades will be included in the maintenance and support agreement.  Notify USCB in writing when a patch
or upgrade is available immediately upon release.



RATE CHANGE PROTECTION

Contractor should provide rate change protection for each postage scale.  The rate change protection can be in the form of automatically
receiving rate update chips or automatic notification within the system, via the software.  The preferred method is automatic notification
within the system, via the software.

If chips are the source of upgrade, they should be sent to each meter location free of charge with instruction for easy installation.  If an
automatic notification of the upload is the source of installation, the Contractor will notify the USCB when this will be performed by email or
official letter to the program manager.



SUPPLIES

Vendor should provide a list of supplies needed for the commercial digital postage meter machine.  Each location having a meter(s) should
receive the following supplies:

      Ink cartridges – 2 per meter location

      Postage Tapes – 2 per meter location

      Roll of Labels – 2 rolls per meter location



The Contactor shall supply the product/style number and cost of the supplies to ensure ease when ordering replacements.



TRAINING

The contractor shall provide operator training  and operator manuals for key personnel as identified by the USCB authorized representative at
the time of or prior to installation of initial equipment at each site.  The training should include training on the day to day use of the meter
machine, various report functions, vendor contact information, everyday maintenance of the machine, and supply information.  If further training
is necessary, the contractor shall provide it on an as-needed basis.  The time and date for the training shall be established by the USCB
personnel at each site.  Training should be completed by December 21, 2012, so that the new equipment may be used beginning January 2, 2013.
The cost of all training shall be included in the cost of this contract and not as a separate cost item.

On an as needed basis, within 3-5 working days of such requests by the USCB, additional training and manuals may be required to maintain
qualified key operators when personnel are relocated or retire, etc.



SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

Due to the Census Bureau being a secure facility, the Contractor must comply with the security requirements.  These requirements may consist of,
but are not limited to, obtaining, completing and submitting application forms, background checks, fingerprints, photos, and badges through the
Census Bureau at no cost.  However, if the Contractor elects to obtain these services through other sources, the Census Bureau will not
reimburse the Contractor for any incurred costs or fees associated with the process.  Directions relating to the security requirements will be
provided by the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative after contract award.

Compliance with the security procedures of USCB will be required. Access to the facility will be coordinated with USCB Security or the USCB Mail
Manager.  In order for vendors to access USCB offices nation-wide, a valid picture ID (Drivers License) is required for access.


SOFTWARE

The Contractor shall supply a copy of the current version of the software used to support the mail meter machines, complimentary, for testing.
Compliance with government standards will be tested.  These standards include FDCC or USGCB desktop configurations, FIPS 140-2 encryption, NIST
800-53 technical security controls, Windows Server 2008 STIG, SQL Server baseline configuration, and/or Section 508 accessibility, where
appropriate.  Census IT staff will work with the Contractor regarding issues or concerns during testing.  Once testing is successful, the
Program Manager, with support from the Census IT staff, will work with the Contractor to ensure that the successfully tested version of the
software is ready for implementation.

REPORTS

The Contractor will ensure that the mail meter system will produce monthly reports showing the postage funding activity for each meter at each
location.  The following reports are required to be produced from the mail meter system.  Any problems or difficulties will be communicated to
the COTR immediately.

Meter Activity by Location (HQ and all Regional Offices)
Location Summary by date
Account Summary by Location
Account Activity by date by Location
Chargeback summary by period
Meter Refill report by Location
List of Accounts
Class Information
List of Operators by Location

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE and CONTRACT TPYE

This will be awarded by purchase order on a fixed price basis for rental of equipment, maintenance and support.  It consists of a base period
from the date of award through February 1, 2013 and four (4) option periods.  The option periods will be as follows:

Baser Period:    February 1, 2013 through January 30, 2014
Option Period #1: February 1, 2014 through January 31, 2015
Option Period #2: February 1, 2015 through January 31, 2016
Option Period #3: February 1, 2016 through January 31, 2017
Option Period #4: February 1, 2017 through January 31, 2018







ADDENDUM

The Government will award to the contractor whose proposal is determined to be the best value to the Government, price and other factors
considered. The factors that will be considered are Price and Past Performance.

Offerors should address the following:

Past Performance:  Offerors are allowed to submit up to a maximum of 5 pages of past performance information for previous work experience on
similar projects, including outcomes and points of contact. All pages after the first 5 pages, regardless of whether they are title pages,
tables of content, etc., will not be evaluated. These pages shall be properly identified at the top of each page a Past Performance Information.

Price: Evaluation of price will be based on the total quoted price, including the option periods. Offerors are allowed to submit up to a maximum
of 1 page of supporting information on their price however this is not required. All pages after the first page, regardless of whether they are
title pages, tables of content, etc., will not be evaluated. These pages shall be properly identified at the top of each page as Pricing Support
Information. Provide in the following or similar format.

Evaluation Criteria:  Based on Best Value.  Past Performance and Price are the two most important criteria factors, with Past Performance being
the most important.

BASE YEAR
0001  Meter Rental Monthly Price
0002  Delivery and Installation of Mailing System Price
0003  Maintenance Monthly Price
0004  Rate Change Protection
0005  Supplies
0006  Training

OPTION YEAR 1
0007  Meter Rental Monthly Price
0008  Maintenance Monthly Price
0009  Rate Change Protection
0010  Supplies
0011  Training

OPTION YEAR 2
0012  Meter Rental Monthly Price
0013  Maintenance Monthly Price
0014  Rate Change Protection
0015  Supplies
0016  Training

OPTION YEAR 3
0017  Meter Rental Monthly Price
0018  Maintenance Monthly Price
0019  Rate Change Protection
0020  Supplies
0021  Training

OPTION YEAR 4
0022  Meter Rental Monthly Price
0023  Maintenance Monthly Price
0024  Rate Change Protection
0025  Supplies
0026;  Training

Quotes should NOT include more than 7 total pages of information five (5) pages for Past Performance, one (1) page for Pricing Support
information, and one (1) additional page of basic quote information (eg. CAGE, Taxpayer ID Number (TIN), point of contact, term of quote
validity, etc.).


Contact:  Quote/Proposals shall be submitted via email to Tanisha Contee, at Tanisha.L.Contee@census.gov by the closing date of the
solicitation.


|                                                   |LARGE (300 LPM)                       |
|                                                   |Postage Meter                         |
|                                                   |QTY:  8 machines                      |
|                                                   |Monthly Cost                          |
|                                                   |                                      |
|Meter Rental Monthly Price                         |$                                     |
|Delivery and Installation of Mailing System Price  |$                                     |
|Maintenance Monthly Price                          |$                                     |
|Rate Change Protection                             |$                                     |
|Supplies                                           |$                                     |
|Training                                           |$                                     |
|                                                   |                                      |
|Total                                              |$                                     |



Attachment:  List of Locations


     1. Headquarters
        US Census Bureau
        4600 Silver Hill Road
        Suitland, MD  20746


     2. Atlanta Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        101 Marietta St, NW Suite 3200
        Atlanta, GA  30303-2711


     3. Chicago Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        1111 W 22nd Street, Suite 400
        Oak Brook, IL  60523-1918


     4. Denver Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        6950 W Jefferson Avenue, Suite 250
        Denver, CO  80235-9953


     5. Los Angeles Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        15350 Sherman Way, Suite 400
        Van Nuys, CA  91406-4203


     6. New York Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        395 Hudson Street, Suite 800
        New York, NY  10014-7451


     7. Philadelphia Regional Office
        US Census Bureau
        833 Chestnut Street, Suite 504
        Philadelphia, PA  19107-4405
