ATTACHMENT 11

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE (PPQ)



Submission Instructions:  The Company who has provided you with this questionnaire is responding to a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Request For Proposals CFP-12-R-00001 for the collection, transmission, validation, aggregation, reporting, storage, and analysis of credit card data (CCD Services).  All information must be typed.  



Questionnaire About ______________________________

(Insert name of requesting company/Contractor)



Company/Contractor Providing Services 									____________________________________________________________



Company/Contractor Address	 								

________________________________________________________________________



Description of Services Provided 										____________________________________________________________



Company/Contractor’s role, to include whether work was performed as a prime or subcontractor

________________________________________________________________________

												



Contract Number/Identifier				 	



Original Contract Estimated Value 				 

Estimated Value at Completion 			



Percentage of Work Complete 		 	Contract Performance Period 				



Contract Type (Fixed Price, T&M, Cost, etc.) 				



Questionnaire Completed By (Completed by reviewing company/agency)



Thank you, in advance, for providing us with valuable information needed to conduct a past performance evaluation.  Upon completion of this questionnaire, please send a signed, scanned version as an email attachment directly to the Contracting Officer at  no later than 4:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on Friday February 10, 2012.  In the email subject line, please state “PPQ Submission.”  If you have any questions related to completing and/or submitting this questionnaire, please contact Mr. Laurent Pichet at the CFPB: (202) 435-7571.





Name 										



Title 										



Company/Agency 							



Address 									

		

									



Telephone 						Email Address 				



Signature 						Date 					





Question Instructions:  Please answer questions 1 through 8 by providing a brief statement of your observations during the time you received support/services from the requesting company.  If applicable, please include any problem(s) or performance failure(s) that prompted your comment.  Additional pages may be attached if necessary.  Contractor is defined as the requesting company which provides services to the reviewing company/agency.













Questions (Completed by reviewing company/agency)





Questions (Completed by reviewing company/agency)



1.

Describe the type of services the Contractor provided and the Contractor’s technical expertise. 



Comments:













2.

Describe the quality of service you received from the Contractor, including their ability to deliver competent personnel.



Comments:









3.

Describe the Contractor’s commitment to small business participation.



Comments:

4.

Describe whether the Contractor performed within budget and their efforts to control costs.



Comments:













5.

Describe the Contractor’s responsiveness to adjust to contract, program and/or schedule changes, and to meet established deadlines.



Comments:













6.

Describe the Contractor’s identification and mitigation of project related risks.  



Comments:














7.

Describe the Contractor’s willingness to work as a team with your personnel and with Contractor staff from other companies.



Comments:













8.

Please provide any additional information to assist us in conducting our evaluation.



Comments:



























SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

1
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

168
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

CFP-12-R-00001
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

01/27/2012

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

LAURENT PICHET
CODE 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS CFPB PROCUREMENT

02/10/2012 1600 ET
X UNRESTRICTED OR
SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS % FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS SOLE SOURCE

9. ISSUED BY

CONSUMER PROTECTION FINANCIAL BUREAU 1801 L STREET, NW WASHINGTON DC 20036

NAICS:

518210

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.00
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

8(A)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X RFP

CFP

Consumer Financial Protection Burea Office of Procurement Office of Procurement 1801 L Street, NW Washington DC 20036
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE 18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDENDA

ARE ARE

X ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

LAURENT E. PICHET
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

168
24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU WASHINGTON, D.C. 20006

January 27, 2012

TO: SUBJECT:

Contractors Request for Proposals; RFP # CFP-12-R-00001, Collection, Transmission, Validation, Aggregation, Reporting, Storage, and Analysis of Credit Card Data (CCD Services)

Dear Contractors: The purpose of this Request for Proposals (RFP) is to acquire contractor support, for the Office of Research, Markets & Regulations (RMR) Card Market Team within the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), with the collection, transmission, validation, aggregation, reporting, storage, and analysis of credit card data (CCD Services). The CFPB is requesting a proposal in compliance with the attached Performance Work Statement detailing how the contactor will support the CFPB in this regard. The CFPB hereby issues a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items issued on FedBizOpps using the policies contained in FAR Part 12 - Acquisition of Commercial Items and the evaluation and award procedures of FAR Part 15 - Contracting by Negotiation to obtain contractor support services in the collection, transmission, validation, aggregation, reporting, storage, and analysis of credit card data submitted periodically by federally regulated banks. Offerors are strongly encouraged to carefully read this entire RFP to include the proposal submission instructions. This RFP is similar yet distinct from a solicitation for a related need recently issued by The Department of the Treasury's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). IMPORTANT: Please ensure your proposal is sent via e-mail with enough time before the deadline to reach the Points of Contact by the response deadline. In addition, please ensure that your proposal includes: 1) a completed version of the "Pricing Table" set forth in Section 11.0 of the attached, and 2) the items set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(10) in the 52.212-1 Instructions To Offerors-- Commercial Items (JUN 2008) clause set forth in the attached.

The following is the point of contact for this RFP: CFPB Contracting Officer: LAURENT E. PICHET CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU (CFPB) 1700 G Street, N.W. WASHINGTON, DC 20006 (202) 435-7571 E-mail Address: Laurent.Pichet@cfpb.gov Questions concerning this RFP must be submitted via e-mail by 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Friday February 3, 2012. The non-price section of your proposal shall not exceed 12 pages, excluding the cover page, table of contents, completed pricing template, Subcontracting Plan, Non-Disclosure Agreement, Small Business Participation Plan, and the Organizational Conflict Of Interest Disclosure/Representation Statement. The font size for the text in your proposal must be 12 point font or larger. All responses to this request are due no later than 4:00 p.m., Eastern Time, on Friday February 10, 2012. The CFPB greatly appreciates your attention to this requirement. Sincerely, /Signed/ Laurent E. Pichet Contracting Officer Enclosures

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
Background Purpose Scope Data Elements Tasks Government Furnished Information, Property, and Services Performance Requirements Summary Milestones and Deliverables Pricing Template SOLICITATION PROVISIONS 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors ­ Commercial Items 52.212-2, Evaluation ­ Commercial Items 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications ­ Commercial Items CONTRACT CLAUSES 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions ­ Commercial Items 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes and Executive Orders Additional Clauses, Terms, and Conditions ATTACHMENTS ATTACHMENT 1, Sample Subcontracting Plan ATTACHMENT 2, Non Disclosure Agreement Section 1.0 Section 2.0 Section 3.0 Section 4.0 Section 5.0 Section 6.0

Section 7.0 Section 8.0 Section 9.0 Section A Section A1 Section A2 Section A3 Section B

Section B1

Section B2 Section B3 Section C

ATTACHMENT 3, Sample Small Business Participation Plan ATTACHMENT 4, Field Definitions ATTACHMENT 5, Data Dictionary ATTACHMENT 6, Schedule E Profit and Loss Statement ATTACHMENT 7, Measures, Dimensions, and Definitions ATTACHMENT 8, Report Examples ATTACHMENT 9, Performance Requirements Summary Table ATTACHMENT 10, Organizational Conflict of Interest Disclosure/ Representation Statement ATTACHMENT 11, Past Performance Questionnaire

1.0

Background

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act), which created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB is responsible for implementing and enforcing federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB also supervises large banks and non-depository institutions to ensure compliance with federal consumer law. Comprehensive credit card data is needed by the CFPB for conducting market analysis across the credit card industry. By utilizing a standard set of data elements and definitions, sound conclusions can be drawn regarding the credit card industry. This data is important and required to support CFPB's supervisory activities to ensure consumer protections laws are followed. Under the Act and other federal consumer financial laws, the CFPB is authorized to collect, research, and monitor information relevant to the functioning of markets for consumer financial products. The general purpose of such research activities is to identify both risks to consumers and to ensure the proper functioning of consumer financial markets. These research activities will also support the CFPB's general regulatory regime, ensuring that any rulemaking will reflect an understanding of the markets. Further, as the Act also requires the CFPB to issue reports on various consumer protection issues, the dataset gained from such research will also support these required reports. Loan level data is the critical enabler in the CFPB's efforts to analyze and understand consumer behavior and the credit card marketplace. Account-level information provides unique insight into understanding changes in the credit card market. This information can be used to support research into fees, charge-offs, rate increases, and balances. Such information maintained in a database can be used to create both present-day snapshots and historical trend data and help the CFPB understand the cost of credit and how the costs are realized by consumers. The highly granular information available through such a database will allow the CFPB to disaggregate the data in order to look at credit availability by customer group. 2.0 Purpose

The CFPB seeks to acquire support services for the collection, transmission, validation, aggregation, reporting, storage, and analysis of a distinct set of credit card data submitted periodically by and collected from nine (9) certain federally regulated banks (collectively referred to as the "Banks"). The purpose of this effort is to support the CFPB's analysis of the credit card industry.

5

3.0

Scope

The selected firm will be required to provide services for the collection, transmission, validation, aggregation, reporting, storage, and analysis of credit card data on the behalf of the CFPB Card Market Team. The CFPB requires contractor expertise in working with large complex bank companies in regards to risk based analysis, benchmarking, and risk reporting for revolving credit card exposures. The credit card data sets will compliment already existing data sets currently collected by a third-party aggregator for the Department of the Treasury's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). The OCC currently collects comprehensive credit card data from nine (9) of the largest credit card issuing national banks based on standard data and definitions on a monthly basis. The Banks that provide the CFPB with credit card data are different from the banks that currently provide data to the OCC. The Contractor shall provide an electronic interface for filing or uploading of periodic reports for credit card data. The quality and reliability of the data shall be checked as part of the contractor's and the Banks' data validation processes. The services include but are not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ providing direct assistance to the Banks to resolve data quality issues and make recommendations to the CFPB for further improving data quality; providing data to be stored on CFPB servers, which is conducive to the generation of reports and analytical analysis; creating the technical capability for the data collected from the Banks to be shared with the OCC, and for integrating bank data that is provided by the OCC pursuant to an existing Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the OCC and CFPB; providing expertise in data aggregation and report design; and providing a secure web-based portal from which government agency users may generate previously defined reports, execute ad-hoc queries and define and/or download data extracts against previously submitted data, as content available from the web-based portal will be accessed by government agency users to conduct ongoing supervision and risk based analysis.

ˇ ˇ

The Contractor may be required by the CFPB to share credit card data collected from the Banks with additional government entities as directed by the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). No other government entities will have the authority to request services or deliverables under the contract to be awarded.

6

At the CFPB's discretion, one or more of the entities that comprise the Banks, as defined herein, may be replaced by another bank. In such cases, historical data collections may be required for reporting periods earlier than the contract award date from these banks. All of the Contractor's work product related to the contract awarded will belong to the CFPB. All communications with, and work performed for, the CFPB will remain confidential and can only be disclosed with prior written permission from the CFPB. The Contractor will perform all work in its own facilities. 4.0 Data Elements

The credit card data element definitions are described in Attachment 4. A data dictionary documenting the data types of the elements as currently stored is available in Attachment 5. Account level metrics will be submitted to the CFPB by nine (9) regulated participating banks on a monthly basis using data from the previous month end (the "As of Date"). On a monthly basis thereafter, the Banks have until the last day of the next month after the previous month's end to submit the data - the "Reporting Date." The Banks may file the data for the previous month any time during the following month. As needed, the Banks may resubmit their filing, either of their own accord or at the direction of the CFPB. The Contractor shall submit portfolio level data to the CFPB quarterly by the month end date following the date of the public release of the Banks' quarterly earnings statements. The definitions and structure of portfolio level metrics are described in Attachments 4 and 5. The Contractor shall submit portfolio data current as of month end for each month in the quarter. 5.0 Tasks

The following performance requirements address the minimum required results to collect, aggregate, validate, store, retrieve and report on data series discussed herein. The Contractor's system shall be available and ready to collect, aggregate, validate, store, retrieve and report credit card data in accordance with the requirement herein no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The Contractor shall gather and store data elements identified in Attachments 4 and 5. Where appropriate, and with the prior approval of the COR, the Contractor may derive certain items in order to ensure common definitions and consistency across the Banks (e.g. average daily balance, the mapping of credit scores to a score with a common definition). All accounts (pre-charge-off) will be reported by the Banks as well as all accounts charged-off within past 12 months. As additional supervisory requirements are defined, additional data elements or portfolio types may be added to the scope of data collection and validation. Any additional data elements and portfolio types added to the data collection and valuation by the request of the COR will be considered within the scope of this requirement and included in the proposed fixed unit prices.

7

In the event existing definitions need to be changed or data elements need to be added, the CFPB may consult with the Contractor, but final decisions on any definition language reside with the CFPB. As part of the reporting requirements, the Contractor shall provide the portfolio level data in the reporting schedule format provided (Attachment 6). The Contractor shall follow the elements as described in the data definitions and data dictionary. The Contractor shall provide or perform each of the tasks listed below. 5.1 Task 1 - Data Collection and Transmission

The Contractor shall: ˇ ˇ ˇ Collect loan level and portfolio credit card servicing data from the Banks based on the prior month-end on a monthly basis. Be available and ready to receive data starting no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The Contractor's system should aggregate this data with the related data provided to the OCC by other banks. The datasets should be able to be aggregated and treated as a single set when needed. Receive monthly filings from the Banks beginning the first of every month for the previous month's data. Develop and assemble the structured formats (e.g. delimited text files) that will be utilized for data collection and transmission from the Banks based on the data elements provided in Attachments 4 and 5. Collect, transmit and receive credit card bank data files from the Banks. Coordinate monthly period end data submission with the Banks. Resolve any bank compliance issues of data based upon format, structure, transmission, and quality of the data from the Banks based on the CFPB templates and data definitions. Work with the Banks to achieve data submission compliance based on any additions, modifications, and clarifications to the data elements, schedules or definitions, when requested by the COR.

ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ

8

ˇ

Work with the Banks to facilitate data mapping or transformation of elements from single and/or disparate systems to comply with the Contractor's data collection compliance and processes. Collect credit card data from single and/or disparate information systems based on the Banks' information systems. Obtain COR approval to request a resubmission of data by a given bank and provide the appropriate supporting documentation to justify the need for the resubmission. Assist the Banks with the preparation and submission of filings immediately upon contract award. Work with the Banks to develop the strategy and plan of action for collecting required data elements that are not readily available from the Banks' systems. The Contractor will not be responsible for developing, modifying or fixing any deficiencies noted in the Banks' systems. However, the Contractor shall notify the CFPB of such findings through status reports discussed in Section 5.9.4. Collect and leverage account level credit bureau attributes for expanded data analysis capabilities. The Contractor shall be responsible for safeguarding the privacy of account information to ensure that no social security numbers, names, addresses, bank account numbers or other personally identifiable information will be obtained under this Contract. (Given the sensitive nature of this information, account-level credit bureau attributes to be collected by the Contractor will be provided as government-furnished information at time of contract award).

ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

5.2

Task 2 - Data Validation/Verification and Quality Control

The Contractor shall conduct a quality verification process covering all data before submitting such data to the CFPB. The Contractor shall conduct the initial validation process within three (3) business days of the reporting date. The Contractor shall validate the data submitted from the Banks in terms of data element compliance based on the lists of data elements and definitions in Attachments 4 and 5 and mandatory field requirements and constraints. The Contractor shall list all data elements and definitions (Attachments 4 and 5), mandatory field requirements and constraints, and quality review mechanism based on the following criteria for the generation of the Validation reports: o Field specific data distributions including counts and percentages of loans with valid data; o Identification of data that is not available for reporting because data is not maintained or collected; 9

o Edit check reports identifying on loan level and portfolio data that is corrupt and/or failed; o Data trend reports to track improvements in data contributions; and o Data quality benchmarking reports ­ Bank comparisons. The Contractor shall provide the edit and data quality reports to the CFPB within three (3) business days after the reporting date. Thereafter, progress reports on the remediation of edit and data quality issues shall be submitted weekly. When no filings have been submitted, the report shall reflect this fact. The Contractor shall:   Perform analysis on individual and aggregate metrics and on benchmark analysis metrics. Implement an initial set of edit and data quality rules based on the Contractor's knowledge and experience. The rules shall be interoperable with processes currently in use with existing credit card data collection systems. Make recommendations to the CFPB for the implementation of additional automated edit and data quality rules based on the Contractor's expertise and lessons learned from assisting the Banks. Support the addition of new automated edit and data quality rules as well as the modification or deletion of existing rules. Incorporate any additional edit and data quality rules provided by the CFPB on an ongoing basis. All additional rules shall be implemented into the Contractor's system within ten (10) business days after the request from the CFPB. Remove any existing edit and data quality rule from the Contractor's system within ten (10) business days after receiving a request for removal from the CFPB. Provide a quarterly report listing all edit and data quality rules, which have been implemented, modified or removed from the Contractor's system as well as the date of their implementation, modification or removal.



 





The Contractor shall submit the first quarterly report of all edit and data quality rules no later than sixty (60) calendar days after contract award. Thereafter, the quarterly report shall be due at the beginning of each calendar quarter. The Contractor shall utilize any pre-existing business relationships with the Banks in order to facilitate data submission compliance. The Contractor shall be responsible for informing the COR of any necessary remediation of failed validity or data quality rules. 10

The Contractor shall work with the CFPB to define the data collection and analytical details for collecting and reporting the credit card metrics based on the definitions provided by the CFPB. The Contractor shall complete quality verification and assist with any required resubmissions in order to have the data ready for the generation of analytical reports or data extracts within ten (10) business days after the reporting date. The Contractor shall update reports previously received or otherwise due (as defined by schedules detailed herein) within four (4) business days if resubmissions occur after the initial ten (10) business days. ˇ The Contractor shall provide a Data Quality Management Plan, which will document the processes by which the requirements for Data Validation and Verification will be met. Describe the methodology for conducting a quality verification process. The Data Quality Management Plan shall describe the implementation and maintenance of automated validation of the data. The Contract shall also incorporate the processes by which the objectives for Data Validation and Verification will be met into the Data Quality Management Plan. The Data Quality Management shall also include the methodology which will be executed to obtain complete data submissions and to ensure acceptable quality assurance levels for all deliverables. Proposed changes to the Data Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the COR for approval prior to implementation.

5.3

Task 3 - Secure Data Transmission, Storage and Technology Infrastructure

The Contractor shall provide and maintain the technology needed to complete the tasks as set forth by the Performance Work Statement (PWS), which is contained in Sections 2.05.0 herein. The Contractor shall add both the historical credit card data and the historical credit bureau attributes to the CFPB's system repository no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. This previously collected or compiled data (historical credit card data and credit bureau attributes) will be provided to the Contractor by the COR within ten (10) calendar days of contract award as Government-Furnished Information. The Contractor shall incorporate and maintain this historical credit card data into the CFPB's system repository. The historical data is of a structure described in the CFPB's list of data elements (see Attachments 4 and 5) dating from a reporting period of January 2008 to the present. The quarterly credit bureau data attributes dating from the first quarter of 2009 to the present will be provided as Government-Furnished Information. The raw historical data as submitted by the Banks for account-level and portfolio-level data combined requires a total of approximately 21 terabytes of uncompressed disk space storage. Historical resubmitted data requires an additional 500 gigabytes of uncompressed disk space storage. The growth rate of the raw monthly data submitted by the Banks requires about 502 gigabytes of uncompressed disk space storage. The system functionality described by all other requirements in the PWS shall apply to the historical credit card data, the historical credit bureau attributes as well as any new data collected in the future. The Contractor shall retain all submissions and resubmissions of the Banks for reference purposes. 11

All loan level and portfolio level data as well as all data aggregations (inclusive of historical data dating back to January 2008, supplemental data provided by the CFPB, and data provided by the Banks) must be retained by the Contractor for the life of the contract. All loan level and portfolio level data and all data aggregations shall be available for the life of the contract for use in reports, ad hoc queries and extracts as described throughout the PWS. Loan level data and historical loan level data from specific reporting periods (submissions or resubmissions) collected under the current contract, ad hoc queries and extracts, as described throughout the PWS, may be archived, but shall not be destroyed without prior written approval from the COR. The Contractor shall provide the CFPB with a full extract of all data (loan level submissions and resubmissions, portfolio level, and aggregations), inclusive of historical data dating back to January 2008, supplemental data provided by the CFPB, and data provided by the Banks at the end of the contract performance period The extract shall be provided to the CFPB in a file format mutually agreed upon by both the Contractor and the CFPB. The Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating, assisting and responding to the Banks' points of contact on the setup and configuration of any software required for data storage and transmission. The Contractor shall provide a Data Management Plan (DMP) that documents all facets of the Contractor's processing and storage of CFPB data. The DMP shall include the storage schema and details of the logical and physical database model, including the SQL statement (or equivalent for the technology used) to create the table structure, of the Contractor's underlying database(s) for this system. The Contractor shall maintain and provide updates to the DMP when management and/or storage requirements change. Any update or change to the DMP shall be submitted to the CFPB within seven (7) business days after the Contractor implements any new management or storage procedure. If needed for reporting purposes, the CFPB reserves the right to provide additional data to the Contractor for storage and inclusion in reports. Such data shall be transmitted in a format and manner approved by the CFPB. ˇ

The Contractor shall obtain credit card data collected by the OCC from other banks and incorporate into the CFPB system repository any of the items defined in the CFPB's list of data elements (see Attachments 4 and 5) as well as previously collected credit bureau data attributes from the period beginning in January 2008. This data shall be added to the CFPB's system repository no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award and shall be available, along with data collected by the Contractor, for use in all other requirements included in the PWS.

12

5.4

Task 4 - Data Aggregation ˇ The Contractor shall be responsible for data aggregation, providing and aggregating bank loan level and portfolio data based on the CFPB Credit Card Metrics data definitions and the lists of data elements (Attachments 4 and 5). The Contractor shall be responsible for performing computations based on the CFPB Credit Card Metrics Data Definitions. The Contractor shall be responsible for working with the individual bank teams of each of the Banks for the aggregation and validation of data from single and/or disparate systems. The Contractor shall be responsible for creating and maintaining a multidimensional data cube(s) of aggregated loan level data collected from the Banks. The CFPB may provide supplemental data which must be joined to the loan level data for inclusion in the data cube(s). The data cube shall include, but not be limited to, all dimensions and measures listed in Attachment 7 and is production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The Contractor shall ensure that the data cube(s) are production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. On a monthly basis, loan level data shall be loaded into the data cube(s) within ten (10) business days after the Reporting Date. The Contractor shall be responsible for refreshing the data cube(s) with resubmitted loan level or supplemental data. Pending resubmitted data shall be loaded into the data cube(s) by a deadline mutually agreed upon by both the CFPB and the Contractor, but shall not exceed three (3) months from the date of receipt of the data from the Banks or the CFPB. The Contractor shall be responsible for modifying the data cube by adding or removing any measure or dimension at the request of the COR. Such modifications shall be applied in a timeframe mutually agreed upon by both the CFPB and the Contractor. Said deadline shall not exceed three (3) months from the date of the request by the COR. The Contractor shall be responsible for documenting and maintaining a list of all production measures and dimensions to include, but not limited to, cross references to the list of collected data elements, definitions, and formulas used to derive each item.

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

13

ˇ

Report definitions for all current measures and dimensions shall be available on the web-based portal (see section 5.5.1) within thirty (30) calendar days of contract award.

5.5

Task 5 - Reporting The Contractor shall provide a definition of a single report template. This definition should be clearly outlined in the successful offeror's proposal. 5.5.1 ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Reporting Interface

The Contractor shall provide secure internet access to a web-based portal for accessing previously defined reports, an ad-hoc query capability and data extracts. The website shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The website shall be accessible to CFPB-approved personnel. Access to the website shall be provided to CFPB approved personnel no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The website shall support a minimum of fifty (50) concurrent users. The website and its associated functionality shall be compatible with Microsoft Internet Explorer 7 and above. The website and its associated functionality shall be Section 508 Compliant within five (5) calendar days of contract award. Reporting CFPB Schedule E and Standardized Reports

5.5.2 ˇ ˇ ˇ

The Contractor shall provide the report(s) based on the CFPB Credit Card Metrics Data Definitions. The Contractor shall provide Schedule E (Attachment 6) to the CFPB within seven (7) business days after the Reporting Date for end of quarter data. Schedule E must be downloadable into a MS Excel format based on the CFPB metric dimensions and presentation as depicted in Attachment 6 for the purpose of data analytics, pivot table creation and user designed reports. CFPB Schedule E shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The reports shall be printable to a printer defined on the user's local machine. 14

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

The Contractor shall be responsible for working with the CFPB to develop up to thirty (30) standardized recurring report templates, formatted as defined by the CFPB. Standardized recurring reporting shall include credit card metrics. This reporting capability shall include at a minimum: o Providing and maintaining the definition of a report template, including, at a minimum, all formulas used to generate report content and the definitions of the population(s) represented; o Identifying and customizing periodic (monthly or quarterly) report deliverable; o Providing up to thirty (30) report templates on a recurring basis for credit card data. Templates shall support data reporting across the multiple reporting sources, and reporting templates may be substituted for another and/or updated reports; and o Delivering periodic and/or ad hoc market research analysis.

ˇ ˇ

Report definitions for all current report templates shall be available on the webbased portal (see section 5.5.1) within thirty (30) calendar days of contract award. The Contractor shall be responsible for designing, constructing and deploying the standardized reports, within ten (10) business days of receiving a request for creating said reports from the CFPB. On a monthly basis, previously deployed standardized reports shall be provided to the CFPB within ten (10) business days after the Reporting Date. Representative examples of the twenty-six (26) report templates to be maintained, populated and posted on a monthly basis are provided in Attachment 8. All standard reports required by this Contract must be production ready no later than thirty (30) days after contract award. A complete list of current reports and designs will be provided at the time of contract award as government-furnished information.

ˇ ˇ ˇ

Logical names for data elements shall be vetted by the COR and changed at the request of the COR. The logical (or short business names) shall be required for use when rendering reports. 5.5.3 Gap Analysis Report

The Contractor shall develop and submit a GAP analysis report depicting the elements on the submission from each of the Banks no later than three (3) business days after the Reporting date. The report shall include, but is not limited to the following metrics:

15

o Detail information of the elements provided and not provided by a given Bank; o Percentage of elements provided by all of the Banks both individually and in aggregate; o Conformity of the data submitted based on the CFPB Metric definitions; and o Quality of data compared to the submission of the other Banks. 5.5.4 ˇ Additional Reports

The Contractor shall assist and provide recommendations to the CFPB on additional analytical reports based on their expertise in data aggregation and analytics. The CFPB reserves the right to have the Contractor standardize these reports, and include or replace, existing standardize recurring reports as described in Section 5.5.2 Reporting CFPB Schedule E and Standardized Reports. The Contractor shall develop on demand analysis and reports when requested by COR. The Contractor shall be responsible for designing, constructing and deploying additional reports, including the demand analysis and reports, within ten (10) business days of receiving a request for creating said reports from the COR. Ad-hoc Queries and Reporting

ˇ

5.5.5 ˇ

The Contractor shall be responsible for providing a secure online ad-hoc query capability via the web based portal against loan level and portfolio credit card records and display the query results based on the measures specified in the query. The ad-hoc query tool shall allow the user to filter data in the database according to any number of parameters. The ad-hoc query tool shall allow the user to select what data elements from the database to include in the result set. Logical names for data elements shall be vetted by the COR and changed at the request of the COR. The logical (or short business names) shall be required for use when executing ad-hoc queries. The ad-hoc query tool shall allow the user to view the results of the search securely online. The ad-hoc query tool shall allow for the download of the result set to the user's local machine in various file formats (e.g. a delimitated file, Microsoft Excel or SAS).

ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ ˇ

16

ˇ

For large results where downloading the result set to a local machine would be performance prohibitive, the Contractor shall provide alternative methods for transferring the data securely to the CFPB (e.g. utilizing secure file transfer protocol, encrypted hard drive). The Contractors shall identify and address all restrictions placed on its services with regard to downloading materials. The ad-hoc query tool functionally shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. Aggregated Data Analysis

ˇ ˇ

5.5.6 ˇ ˇ

The Contractor shall be responsible for providing a secure online data analysis tool as a front end interface to the multi-dimensional data cube(s). The analysis tool shall allow the user to create pivot tables based on all dimensions and measures included, but not limited to, those listed in Attachment 7. The analysis tool shall allow the user to download the result set to user's local machine in a, at a minimum, Microsoft Excel format. The analysis tool shall support, at a minimum, one-hundred (100) named (not concurrent) users, and shall also allow for additional users as requested by the COR. The Contractor shall be responsible for tuning the analysis tool and the underlying data cube(s) to meet levels of functional performance deemed acceptable by the CFPB. The analysis tool functionally shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. Task 6 - Data Extract Capabilities ˇ The Contractor shall be responsible for extracting and delivering loan level and portfolio bank data by means of a compatible file format (e.g., delimitated file type, Microsoft Excel, SAS) to the CFPB. The extract shall include validated credit card metrics loan level and/or portfolio data. The Contractor shall work with the CFPB to define the preferred secure method for delivery of the data (e.g. utilizing secure file transfer protocol, encrypted hard drive).

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

5.6

ˇ

17

ˇ

The Contractor shall be responsible for extracting the data based on the specific on demand data query requests by the CFPB. (i.e., aggregate, loan level or portfolio extractions). The Contractor's system shall have data extract capabilities to meet these requirements no later than 30 calendar days after contract award. The Contractor shall provide full or partial data extracts of database content upon request from by the CFPB. Ad-hoc data extracts shall be due no later than one (1) business day after a request by the CFPB. Data extracts which are to be executed on a monthly basis shall be provided to the CFPB within twelve (12) business days after the Reporting Date.

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

5.7

Task 7 - Technical and Analytical Support ˇ ˇ The Contractor shall be responsible for providing technical and analytical support, Monday through Friday, 8am ­ 5pm ET. The Contractor shall be responsible for providing remediation to the CFPB within twenty four (24) hours of the initial support call from the CFPB to the Contractor. The Contractor shall provide the direct contact information for Contractor support personnel. The Contractor shall be prepared to provide technical and analytical support beginning the day of contract award.

ˇ ˇ

5. 8

Task 8 - System Testing, Training and Documentation ˇ The Contractor shall be responsible for providing a test environment to perform acceptance testing for the CFPB requirements referenced in the bullet below. The Contractor shall develop and submit to the CFPB for approval a Test Plan, which details the process for, and facilitation of acceptance testing of CFPB requirements referenced below. Topics shall include, but are not limited to, testing and acceptance of the following areas along with a proposed schedule for each. Where appropriate, the Test Plan should solicit the participation of CFPB personnel in the acceptance testing process (e.g. testing of standardized reports). For the CFPB requirements, reference is made to:

ˇ

18

o Schedule E and Standardized Reports as described in Section 5.5.2; o Gap analysis report as described in Section 5.5.3; o Ad-hoc queries and reporting as described in Section 5.5.5; o Aggregated Data Analysis in Section 5.5.6; and o Data extracts as described in Section 5.6. ˇ ˇ The Contractor shall facilitate acceptance testing through the implementation of the test plan. The Contractor shall develop a user-training plan for the system.

The Contractor shall be responsible for delivery of a system user manual and training documentation within sixty (60) calendar days of contract award. ˇ The Contractor shall provide training on the secure online reporting and querying capabilities in accordance with the training plan. Up to ten (10) training sessions shall be performed at two or more of the CFPB Training Centers located in Washington, DC. The Contractor shall be prepared to begin conducting training sessions no later than sixty (60) days after contract award. Exact dates for initial session(s) shall be approved by the CFPB after contract award.

ˇ

5.9

Task 9 - General Management, Resources, Decision Making 5.9.1 Relationships with the Participants

The Contractor shall take a collaborative approach with the CFPB and the Banks in providing data management assistance. The Contractor shall keep the CFPB well informed of project activities, timelines and status to facilitate rapid resolution of any problems or issues that may arise. The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining a log of any issues (open and closed) which have arisen with each of the Banks. The Contractor shall provide the CFPB with an updated copy of the log at least every week. The Contractor shall schedule and coordinate a weekly status conference call at a time mutually agreeable between the Contractor and the CFPB to discuss progress of the performance requirements identified, the first of which shall be held no later than seven (7) calendar days after the date of contract award. The CFPB reserves the right to change the frequency and occurrence of this conference call. The COR will notify the Contractor at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any date change and seven (7) calendar days in advance of any changes in frequency.

19

5.9.2

Resources

The Contractor shall provide the necessary resources to effectively accept data transfers from the Banks; provide support to the Banks and support validation, storage, and reporting services on behalf of the CFPB as described in the PWS. 5.9.3 Decision Making

The Contractor shall obtain CFPB input and approval on project activities and timelines. The Contractor shall provide the CFPB with recommendations and obtain CFPB approval prior to making requests of the Banks. 5.9.4 Management Reports

The Contractor shall be responsible for meeting summaries, issues and actions based on meetings held with the participating banking institutions pertaining to data quality, validation, verification and resubmission as specified by the CFPB and provide this information to the CFPB as part of the weekly report. This report shall include a brief summary of the meeting, participants, location and date time of the meeting. The Contractor shall provide a Project Plan identifying key milestones and completion dates for each requirement. The final version is due no later than ten (10) business days after contract award. The Contractor shall provide weekly written status reports to the COR. The report at a minimum shall consist of: o o o o o o o o o 6.0 Updates to the Project Plan; Performance requirements completed; Performance requirements to be addressed over the next period; Issues or risks surrounding performance requirements and mitigation strategies per reporting bank; Issues requiring CFPB assistance; Critical deficiencies discovered to date per each of the Banks, even if preliminarily assessed; Project activities; Timelines; and Status of issues that have arisen in the execution of this contract.

Government Furnished Information, Property, and Services ˇ ˇ Account level credit bureau attributes to be collected by the Contractor will be provided by the CFPB at time of award. Credit card data collected as well as previously collected credit bureau data attributes from the period beginning in January 2008, which will be provided by the OCC. 20

ˇ ˇ ˇ 7.0

A complete list of current reports and designs will be provided by the CFPB at time of award. Training facilities, government furnished equipment and telecommunications services for the training sessions (reference to Section 5.8, Task 8) will be provided by the CFPB. A list of authorized users for the system will be provided by the CFPB after award.

Performance Requirements Summary

The contractor service requirements are summarized into performance objectives that relate directly to mission essential items. The Performance Requirements Deliverable Summary below briefly describes the thresholds or minimum acceptable levels of service required for each performance requirement. These thresholds are critical to mission success. Performance Objectives, Performance Standards, and Acceptable Quality Levels are provided as "Attachment 9" of this solicitation. 8.0 Milestones and Deliverables Table 1 ­ Performance Requirements Deliverable Summary PWS Reference TASK 1 - 5.1 Data Collection / Transmission Scheduled Delivery Data Collection The Contractor's system shall be available and ready to collect, aggregate, validate, store, retrieve and report credit card data within thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The Contractor's system shall have the ability to receive data within thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. Resubmissions In the event of resubmission, the Contractor shall update reports previously received or otherwise due (as defined by schedules detailed herein) within four (4) business days. Bank Assistance The Contractor shall begin assisting the Banks with the preparation and submission of filings immediately upon contract award. TASK 2 - 5.2 Data Validation /Verification and Quality Control Data Verification The initial verification process shall be completed within three (3) business days after the Reporting Date. Data Ready for Reporting All data validation, resubmission, etc. shall be completed so that the Contractor can release the data to the CFPB as verified and shall be 21

PWS Reference

Scheduled Delivery completed within ten (10) business days of the Reporting Date. Additional Edit and Quality Checks Additional rules shall be implemented into the Contractor's system within ten (10) business days after the request from the CFPB. The Contractor shall remove any existing edit and data quality rule from the Contractor's system within ten (10) business days after receiving a request for removal from the CFPB. Edit and Data Quality Reports Edit and data quality reports shall be submitted to the CFPB within three (3) business days after the Reporting Date. Thereafter, progress reports on the remediation of edit and data quality issues shall be submitted weekly. When no filings have been submitted, the report shall reflect this fact. Data Edit and Quality Rules List Shall be submitted quarterly with the first version due no later than sixty (60) calendar days after contract award. Thereafter, the quarterly report shall be due at the beginning of each calendar quarter. Recommendations for additional Data Edit and Quality Rules Shall be submitted to the CFPB at weekly status meetings. Data Quality Management Plan Proposed changes to the Data Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the COR for approval prior to implementation. Provide 24x7 access to the data with the exception of agreed upon maintenance periods. The system shall be available at least 99 % of the time. Both the historical credit card data and the historical credit bureau attributes shall be added to the CFPB's system repository no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. The Contractor shall incorporate and maintain historical credit card data and credit bureau attributes into the CFPB's system repository. The historical data is of a structure described in the CFPB's list of data elements (see Attachments 4 and 5) dating from a reporting period of January 2008 to the present. Additionally, within ten (10) calendar days after contact award, the Contractor shall be provided quarterly credit bureau data attributes dating from the first quarter of 22

TASK 3 - 5.3 Secure Data Transmission, Storage and Technology Infrastructure

PWS Reference

Scheduled Delivery 2009 to the present. System functionality described by all other requirements in the PWS shall apply to the historical credit card data, the historical credit bureau attributes as well as any new data collected in the future. At the end of the contract performance period, the Contractor shall provide the CFPB with a full extract of all data (loan level submissions and resubmissions, portfolio level, and aggregations), be it historical data from 2008, supplemental data provided by the CFPB, or data provided by the Banks. Data Management Plan (DMP) Updates to the DMP shall be submitted to the COR within seven (7) business days after the Contractor implements any new management or storage procedure. Aggregation of data to create reports and data extract as identified in reporting performance objective. The Contractor shall ensure that the data cube(s) of aggregated loan level data with all dimensions and measures listed in Attachment 7 are production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. On a monthly basis, loan level data shall be loaded into the data cube(s) within ten (10) business days after the Reporting Date. The Contractor shall be responsible for refreshing the data cube(s) with resubmitted loan level or supplemental data. Pending resubmitted data shall be loaded into the data cube(s) by a deadline mutually agreed upon by both the CFPB and the Contractor, but shall not exceed three (3) months from the receipt of the data from the Banks or the CFPB. The Contractor shall be responsible for modifying the data cube by adding or removing any measure or dimension at the request of the CFPB. Such modifications shall be applied in a timeframe mutually agreed upon by both the CFPB and the Contractor. Said deadline shall not exceed three (3) months from the date of the request by the CFPB. Report definitions for all current measures and dimensions shall be available on the web-based portal (see section 5.5.1) within thirty (30) calendar days of contract award. 23

TASK 4 - 5.4 Data Aggregation

PWS Reference TASK 5 - 5.5 Reporting

Scheduled Delivery Performance Objective 5.1 Reporting Interface The secure website shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. See also Section 5.8 System Testing. Access to the website shall be provided to CFPB approved personnel no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. Reporting CFPB Schedule E and Standardized Reports CFPB Schedule E shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. CFPB credit card schedules shall be downloadable in a MS Excel format based on CFPB data definitions and available no later than seven (7) business days after the Reporting Date The Contractor shall be responsible for designing, constructing and deploying the standardized reports within ten (10) business days of receiving a request for creating said reports from the CFPB. Report definitions for all current report templates shall be available on the web-based portal (see section 5.5.1) within thirty (30) calendar days of contract award. On a monthly basis, previously deployed standardized reports shall be provided to the CFPB within ten (10) business days after the Reporting Date. All standard reports and designs provided at time of award must be production ready no later than thirty (30) days after contract award. See also Section 5.8, System Testing. Gap Analysis Report Gap analysis report shall become due no later than three (3) business days after the Reporting Date. See also Section 5.8, System Testing. Additional Reports The Contractor shall be responsible for designing, constructing and deploying additional reports within ten (10) business days of receiving a request from the CFPB. Ad hoc Queries and Reporting 24

PWS Reference

Scheduled Delivery Ad-hoc Query and Reporting functionally shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. See also Section 5.8, System Testing. Aggregated Data Analysis The analysis tool functionally shall be production ready no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. See also Section 5.8, System Testing. The Contractor's system shall have data extract capabilities no later than thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. See also Section 5.8, System Testing. Data extracts shall be provided to the CFPB within one (1) business day of a request by the CFPB. Data extracts which are to be executed on a monthly basis shall be provided to the CFPB within twelve (12) business days after the Reporting Date.

TASK 6 - 5.6 Data Extract Capabilities

TASK 7 - 5.7 Technical and Analytical Support

On-call support 8am-5pm ET Monday through Friday. The Contractor shall be responsible for providing remediation to the CFPB within twenty four (24) hours of the initial support call from the CFPB to the Contractor.

25

PWS Reference TASK 8 - 5.8 System Testing, Training and Documentation

Scheduled Delivery User Manual The user manual shall be submitted to the COR no later than sixty (60) calendar days after contract award. Training Materials The training materials shall be submitted to the COR no later than sixty (60) calendar days after contract award. Conducting Training The Contractor shall be prepared to begin conducting training sessions no later than sixty (60) calendar days after contract award. The exact dates for initial session(s) will be determined by mutual agreement after contract award.

TASK 9 - 5.9 General Management, Resources, Decision Making

Relationships with the Participants The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining a log of all issues (open and closed) which have arisen with each of the Banks. The Contractor shall provide the CFPB with an updated copy of the log weekly. The Contractor shall provide a report on project activities, timelines, status and issues that may arise during weekly meetings, the first of which shall be held no later than seven (7) calendar days after the date of contract award. Management Reports Reports on meetings with the participating banks shall be submitted to the CFPB weekly. Final Project Plan identifying key milestones and completion dates for each objective shall be due no later than ten (10) business days after contract award. Project status reports shall be submitted to the COR and CO weekly.

26

9.0

Pricing Template

The following pricing template has been developed to document offerors' proposed fixed unit price by CLIN as well as to facilitate price evaluation based on the estimated needs of the CFPB for this requirement. Offerors shall complete the pricing template in the format provided and using the CFPB-estimated quantities provided. Unit CFPB Contract Line Estimated Item Number Description Qty Base Period: March 2, 2012 ­ March 1, 2013 (estimated) Task 1 - Data MO 12 Collection and (month) CLIN 0001 Transmission Task 2 - Data MO 12 Validation/Verificati on and Quality CLIN 0002 Control Task 3 - Secure Data MO 12 Transmission, Storage and Technology CLIN 0003 Infrastructure Task 4 - Data MO 12 CLIN 0004 Aggregation MO 12 CLIN 0005 Task 5 - Reporting Task 6 - Data MO 12 CLIN 0006 Extract Capabilities Task 7 - Technical MO 12 and Analytical CLIN 0007 Support Task 8 - System MO 12 Testing, Training CLIN 0008 and Documentation Task 9 - General MO 12 Management, Resources, Decision CLIN 0009 Making Additional User Per User CLIN 0010A Licenses 101-124 N/A CLIN 0010B Additional User Per User Licenses 125-149 N/A CLIN 0010C Additional User Per User Licenses 151-174 N/A CLIN 0010D Additional User Per User 27 Fixed Unit Price

Extended Fixed Price

N/A N/A N/A

Licenses

175-200

N/A

N/A

Option Year 1: March 2, 2013 ­ March 1, 2014 (estimated) Task 1 - Data MO 12 Collection and CLIN 1001 Transmission Task 2 - Data MO 12 Validation/Verificati on and Quality CLIN 1002 Control Task 3 - Secure Data MO 12 Transmission, Storage and Technology CLIN 1003 Infrastructure Task 4 - Data MO 12 CLIN 1004 Aggregation MO 12 CLIN 1005 Task 5 - Reporting Task 6 - Data MO 12 CLIN 1006 Extract Capabilities Task 7 - Technical MO 12 and Analytical CLIN 1007 Support Task 8 - System MO 12 Testing, Training and Documentation CLIN 1008 Task 9 - General MO 12 Management, Resources, Decision CLIN 1009 Making Additional User Per User CLIN 1010A Licenses 101-124 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 1010B Licenses 125-149 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN1010C Licenses 151-174 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 1010D Licenses 175-200 N/A Option Year 2: March 2, 2014 ­ March 1, 2015 (estimated) Task 1 - Data MO 12 Collection and CLIN 2001 Transmission Task 2 - Data MO 12 Validation/Verificati CLIN 2002 on and Quality 28

N/A N/A N/A N/A

Control Task 3 - Secure Data MO 12 Transmission, Storage and Technology CLIN 2003 Infrastructure Task 4 - Data MO 12 CLIN 2004 Aggregation MO 12 CLIN 2005 Task 5 - Reporting Task 6 - Data MO 12 CLIN 2006 Extract Capabilities Task 7 - Technical MO 12 and Analytical CLIN 2007 Support Task 8 - System MO 12 Testing, Training CLIN 2008 and Documentation Task 09 - General MO 12 Management, Resources, Decision CLIN 2009 Making Additional User Per User CLIN 2010A Licenses 101-124 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 2010B Licenses 125-149 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 2010C Licenses 151-174 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 2010D Licenses 175-200 N/A Option Year 3: March 2, 2015 ­ March 1, 2016 (estimated) Task 1 - Data MO 12 Collection and CLIN 3001 Transmission Task 2 - Data MO 12 Validation/Verificati on and Quality CLIN 3002 Control Task 3 - Secure Data MO 12 Transmission, Storage and Technology CLIN 3003 Infrastructure Task 4 - Data MO 12 CLIN 3004 Aggregation 29

N/A N/A N/A N/A

MO 12 Task 5 - Reporting Task 6 - Data MO 12 CLIN 3006 Extract Capabilities Task 7 - Technical MO 12 and Analytical CLIN 3007 Support Task 8 - System MO 12 Testing, Training CLIN 3008 and Documentation Task 9 - General MO 12 Management, Resources, Decision CLIN 3009 Making Additional User Per User CLIN 3010A Licenses 101-124 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 3010B Licenses 125-149 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 3010C Licenses 151-174 N/A Additional User Per User CLIN 3010D Licenses 175-200 N/A Option Year 4: March 2, 2016 ­ March 1, 2017 (estimated) Task 1 - Data MO 12 Collection and CLIN 4001 Transmission Task 2 - Data MO 12 Validation/Verificati on and Quality CLIN 4002 Control Task 3 - Secure Data MO 12 Transmission, Storage and Technology CLIN 4003 Infrastructure Task 4 - Data MO 12 CLIN 4004 Aggregation MO 12 CLIN 4005 Task 5 - Reporting Task 6 - Data MO 12 CLIN 4006 Extract Capabilities Task 7- Technical MO 12 and Analytical CLIN 4007 Support Task 8 - System MO 12 CLIN 4008 Testing, Training CLIN 3005 30

N/A N/A N/A N/A

CLIN 4009 CLIN 4010A CLIN 1010B CLIN1010C CLIN 1010D

and Documentation Task 9 - General Management, Resources, Decision Making Additional User Licenses Additional User Licenses Additional User Licenses Additional User Licenses

MO

12

Per User 101-124 Per User 125-149 Per User 151-174 Per User 175-200

N/A N/A N/A N/A

N/A N/A N/A N/A

31

A

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS

A1 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is $25 Million. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show-- (1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; and (10) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for sixty (60) calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, 32

and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Deleted (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-- (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 33

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to-- GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, 34

standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-- (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 6971462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If 35

the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-2272423 or 269-961-5757. (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award. (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. A2 52.212-2 EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

The CFPB intends to make one contract award as a result of this RFP to the responsible Offeror whose proposal conforming to the RFP is most advantageous to the Government, price and non-price factors considered. However, the CFPB reserves the right to make multiple awards or no award. Offerors that do not meet all of the requirements specified in this RFP may not be considered for award. A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

36

The following non-price and price evaluation factors shall be used to evaluate offers: I. Non-Price Evaluation Factors

The non-price factors, when combined, are significantly more important than price. The four (4) non-price evaluation factors are listed in descending order of importance: (1) Technical Approach; (2) Experience; (3) Past Performance; and (4) Small Business Involvement. 1. Technical Approach

Evaluation Criteria The CFPB will evaluate the offeror's technical approach to performing the required collection, aggregation, storage, and reporting analytics of credit card data. A technical approach will be evaluated to determine the extent it is likely to be effective and the extent it demonstrates an offeror's technical understanding of the objectives and tasks laid out in the PWS. The CFPB will assess the offeror's proposed approach in terms of whether it would provide a complete and integrated solution to the full scope and breadth of the PWS requirements such that it is likely to result in tasks being effectively completed in a timely manner, and the adequacy of the offeror's data quality management plan to ensure quality controls are in place. Submission Instruction The Offeror shall provide a technical approach that is based on industry practices and standards, and that describes the methodology they will employ to accomplish all of the tasks described in Section 5.0. 2. Experience

Evaluation Criteria The CFPB will evaluate the extent an Offeror's (to include any major subcontractors, teaming partners, and key personnel proposed) relevant experience demonstrates an ability to collect, transmit, validate, aggregate, report, store, and analyze credit card data in accordance with the PWS. The CFPB will evaluate the depth and breadth of relevant expertise as evidenced by the complexity of relevant engagements performed. Submission Instruction Offerors shall describe its relevant corporate experience and the relevant experience of proposed key personnel and that of any teaming partners or major subcontractors.

37

3.

Past Performance

Evaluation Criteria The CFPB will evaluate relevant past performance to assess the likelihood that the Offeror would perform the contract successfully, which may include consideration of customer satisfaction, cost control, timeliness of performance, and effectiveness at accomplishing stated goals. The CFPB will use the Past Performance Questionnaires provided by up to three relevant references of an offeror, will review records contained in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS) at www.ppirs.gov, may consult other available sources of information, and may consider any other past performance information the CFPB deems relevant. If no relevant information is obtained for an offeror, that offeror will be evaluated neither favorably nor unfavorably with respect to past performance. Submission Instruction An offeror may have up to three (3) references submit a completed Past Performance Questionnaire (PPQ) (see Attachment 11) for consideration. A reference will not be considered relevant if the associated contract performance did not occurr within three (3) years from the date this RFP is released. Only past performance references deemed relevant to the requirements in the PWS will be considered. For each PPQ sent out by an offeror, the offeror must provide the name, telephone number, and e-mail address of each past performance reference, provide a description of the nature of the work and its relevance to the current work requirement, and provide the date, duration, and the value of the work performed. An offeror should request the completion of the PPQ in Attachment 11 by each of its references and submission directly to the Contracting Officer via e-mail as instructed in the attachment. The CFPB may elect to not consider PPQs not received by the deadline set for receipt of proposals. Completed PPQs will not count toward the technical proposal page limit. 4. Small Business Involvement

Evaluation Criteria The CFPB will evaluate an Offeror's proposed extent of, and meaningful opportunity for, small business involvement, as indicated in a Small Business Participation Plan and, as applicable, a Small Business Subcontracting Plan.

38

A.

Small Business Participation Plan (applicable to large and small businesses*)

Submission Instruction Each Offeror, whether a large or small business, shall submit a Small Business Participation Plan which addresses how it plans to include small business participation in the performance of the contract. All Offerors must: 1. Identify the extent to which Small Businesses (SBs), Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSBs), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSBs), Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small Businesses (HUBZones), Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDBs) and Woman-Owned Small Businesses (WOSBs) will be utilized in the performance of the contract (for example, percentage of work, type of meaningful work, whether prime contractor, joint venture team member, subcontractor or contractor team arrangement member, if applicable). If the Offeror is itself a small business, the Offeror shall also identify their own participation as a SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB or WOSB. 2. Identify the names of the SBs, VOSBs, SDVOSBs, HUBZones, SDBs or WOSBs who will participate on the contract, the products and/or services to be performed and the estimated total dollars of such work. 3. Address the extent of commitment to utilize the team members in performance of the contract (for example, length of the relationship, whether there is a written agreement). Offerors are encouraged to provide copies of agreements, to include joint ventures, mentor-protégé agreements, or contractor team arrangement documents, or letters of commitment to subcontract. 4. Provide prior performance information, if any, on no more than five (5) contracts that were performed within the three years from the proposal submission date which included FAR clause 52.219-8, "Utilization of Small Business Concerns" and/or FAR clause 52.219-9, "Small Business Subcontracting Plan" and show the actual performance or compliance with these FAR clauses. Assessment of compliance with these clauses will be made independently of the Past Performance Evaluation. Offeror's prior performance information shall include the following: a. (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) If the Offeror is Other Than Small: Name of the contracting activity; Contract number; Total contract value; List of major subcontractors/teaming partners; The role(s) of the subcontractor(s) involved;

39

(6) The applicable goals and actual performance (dollars and percentages) for subcontracting with the types of small business concerns listed in FAR Clause 52.219-9; (7) A Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts (ISR), Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) and any other documentation of actual accomplishments of the goals established under the subcontracting plans of prior contracts, identifying historical performance for each SB goal category, the goal approved for each category, and the actual goal achievement; and (8) If applicable, Offeror may provide information on subcontracting related problems encountered on the contracts identified above, and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. b. If the Offeror is Small:

(1) Name of the contracting activity; (2) Contract number; (3) Total contract value; (4) Subcontract number, if applicable; (5) Total subcontract value; (6) List of major participating firms/teaming partners; (7) A description of the Offeror's role(s) as a subcontractor or teaming partner; and (8) The actual performance (dollars and percentages) as a subcontractor or teaming partner. Attachment 3, Sample Small Business Participation Plan provides the CFPB's suggested model for formulating a Small Business Participation Plan. Other formats of a participation plan are also permissible. No page limit is assigned to the Small Business Participation Plan submission and the Small Business Participation Plan submission will not be counted against the overall proposal page limit. B. Small Business Subcontracting Plan (applicable only to large businesses)

Submission Instruction In addition to the small business participation information, Offerors that are not small businesses under NAICS Code 518210 shall submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan as required by FAR clause 52.219-9. If your firm submits a Small Business Subcontracting Plan containing goals that are appreciably different from CFPB's stated Small Business goals and subgoals (CFPB is using Treasury FY11 goals until FY12 goals have been approved by the SBA), please provide an explanation as to why this work cannot be subcontracted to Small Businesses to the extent of CFPB's stated Small Business goals and subgoals.

40

Category Prime Contracts Small Business Small Disadvantaged Business Women-Owned Small Business Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business HUBZone Small Business Subcontracts Small Business Small Disadvantaged Business Women-Owned Small Business HUBZone Small Business Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business

Goal

28.5% 5% 5% 3% 3%

44.7% 5% 5% 3% 3%

Attachment 1, Sample Subcontracting Plan, provides CFPB's suggested model for formulating a subcontracting plan. While this model plan has been designed to be consistent with FAR 52.219-9, other formats of a subcontracting plan are permissible. The use of this model is not intended to waive other requirements that may be applicable under FAR 52.219-9. "Subcontract," as used in this clause, means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for performance of the contract or subcontract. No page limit is assigned to the Small Business Subcontracting Plan submission and the Small Business Subcontracting Plan submission will not be counted against the overall proposal page limit.

II. Price Evaluation Factor Please note the Government will give a price evaluation preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns in accordance with FAR 52.219-4 "Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns." (a) The CFPB will evaluate an offeror's total evaluated price for reasonableness, including options, based on the pricing proposed in each offeror's completed Pricing Template (Section 9.0), as well as any applicable price adjustment in accordance with the HUB Zone price evaluation preference (FAR 52.219-4). In calculating total evaluated prices, the Government will consider the prices proposed for each CLIN, including the optional CLINs for additional user license prices to an extent, on a uniform basis against each proposal received. 41

(b) Option. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if option period pricing is significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of option period pricing shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option periods. Pricing information identified in the successful offeror's Pricing Template will remain in effect throughout the life of the Contract. Submission Instruction The Offeror shall include its proposal submission a fully completed Pricing Template. The Pricing Template of the successful offeror will be incorporated into the ensuing contract, and the Contractor may not exceed pricing reflected in the Pricing Template during contract performance. A3 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2011) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the 42

definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- 43

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

44

"Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror 45

represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [ ] is,[ ] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [ ] is, [ ] is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [ ] is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors)

46

amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It [ ] is, [ ] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [ ] has, [ ] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this 47

provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It [ ] has, [ ] has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [ ] has, [ ] has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It [ ] has developed and has on file, [ ] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [ ] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 http://uscode.house.gov/uscodecgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t29t32+1665+30++%2831%29%20%20AND%20%28%2831%29%20A DJ%20USC%29%3ACITE%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20U.S.C.

1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end 48

products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

49

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

50

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

51

(1) [ ] Are, [ ] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [ ] Have, [ ] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) [ ] Are, [ ] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ ] Have, [ ] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

52

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) [ ] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [ ] Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also 53

constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [ ] does [ ] does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to nonGovernmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.

54

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local); o Foreign government; o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 55

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

B

CONTRACT CLAUSES

B1 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2010) (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for

56

acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights-- (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include-- (i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; 57

(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.-- (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. 58

(4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-- (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-- (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and (D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-- (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2).

59

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-- (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.

60

(m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 5158, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of this clause. (3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 61

(9) The specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-2272423 or 269-961-5757.

62

B.2 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2011) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 10877, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) _X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (7) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 1118, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (8) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). _X_ (9) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). 63

__ (10) [Reserved] __ (11)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). __ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). __ (12)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X_ (13) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). _X_ (14)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. _X_ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. __ (15) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). __ (16) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). _X_ (17) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (18)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (19) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (20) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (21) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business SetAside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). _X_ (22) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (23) 52.219-29 Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged WomenOwned Small Business Concerns (Nov 2011). __ (24) 52.219-30 Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program (Nov 2011). _X_ (25) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).

64

__ (26) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). _X_ (27) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (28) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (29) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (30) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (31) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (32) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). __ (33) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (34)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­ Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (35) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (36)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (37) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513). __ (38) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (39)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (40) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Nov 2011) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (41) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (42) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). 65

__ (43) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (44) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (45) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (46) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (47) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (48) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (49) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (50)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).

66

(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

67

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the Contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. B3 1.0 ADDITIONAL CLAUSES, TERMS, AND CONDITIONS: Security and Confidentiality

The Contractor recognizes that, in performing this Contract, the Contractor may obtain access to non-public confidential information, Personally Identifiable Information (PII), or proprietary information. The Contractor agrees that it, its employees, its subcontractors, and its subcontract employees will not disclose to any third party, or otherwise use, any information it obtains or prepares in the course of performance under the contract without first receiving written permission from the CFPB. Information acquired by the Contractor pursuant to the performance of this contract shall not be disclosed by the Contractor to others outside the approved Contractor team members and the oversight staff without prior approval by the COR.

68

2.0 2.1

Contractor Personnel Security Pre-Screening of Personnel and Removal of Unacceptable Personnel

All Contractor personnel or any representative of the contractor entering any government facility or government-leased facility shall abide by all security regulations and be subject to security checks. All information collected under this contract shall be considered procurement sensitive. Contractor staff must be a United States citizen or possess alien status in the United States and be able to pass a Government background investigation, if required, by the CFPB. During the performance of this contract, access to the CFPB facilities for Contractor representatives shall be granted as deemed necessary by the Government. All Contractor employees whose duties under this contract require their presence at any CFPB facility shall be clearly identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by the Government. In addition, corporate identification badges shall be worn on the outer garment at all times. It is the sole responsibility of the Contractor to provide this corporate identification. All on-site Contractor personnel shall abide by security regulations applicable to that site. The COR may direct that certain personnel that may be exposed to Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) data meet additional security requirements. SBU data includes, but is not limited to, information that is protected from disclosure by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.The Contractor shall ensure that any such applicable personnel working on any contract, including subcontractors, meet the following requirements to protect against unauthorized disclosure of SBU data. a. All applicable personnel shall be United States citizens or have lawful permanent resident status. All applicable personnel shall be subject to a National Agency Check, Law and Credit (NACLC) investigation in accordance with the Department of the Treasury Security Manual (TD P 15-71). Applicable personnel shall not begin working on the contract until all security forms have been properly completed and submitted to the COR for processing, as follows: 1. 2. 3. 4. Completed fingerprint cards Non-disclosure Agreement Fair Credit Reporting Act Release SF 85-P, "Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions"

b.

69

c.

Applicable personnel shall wear CFPB issued identification badges when working in Government facilities. Applicable personnel who undergo NACLC investigations that reveal, but are not limited to, the following may be unacceptable under this contract: conviction of a felony, a crime of violence or a serious misdemeanor; a record of arrests for continuing offenses; or failure to file or pay Federal income tax. The CFPB reserves the right to determine if a Contractor employee assigned to a task shall continue with the task. The Contractor shall agree to remove the person assigned within one business day of official notification by the Government and provide a replacement within five business days. New hires or substitutions of personnel are subject to the NACLC investigation requirement.

d.

The Contractor may be requested to sign a non-disclosure agreement regarding all deliverables and other pertinent information relative to this requirement. All information provided by the government shall be returned to the government at the conclusion of this contract. In addition the Contractor must have provided the personnel associated with this contract, all security awareness training and all other requirements contained in the FISMA regulations, NIST guidelines and all other public law which shall include those requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). Classified information will NOT be made available to the Contractor. 3.0 FAR 52.204-9 Personnel Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government: (1) When no longer needed for contract performance. (2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee's employment. (3) Upon contract completion or termination. (c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor's employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federallycontrolled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. 70

4.0

Cooperating with Other Organizations

The Contractor agrees to cooperate with representatives of other contractors, Federal Reserve Banks, Federal agencies, governmental entities, and other organizations, as may be required by the CFPB. 5.0 Key Personnel a. The Contractor shall use only the key personnel (or a subset of the key personnel) set forth in its proposal and approved by the CFPB for performance under this contract. In the event that one or more of the key personnel are not available, or become unavailable, the Contractor shall furnish substitute personnel of equal or superior relevant skills, which substitutions shall be subject to advance approval by the Contracting Officer, with notice to the COR in accordance with section 5.0(b)(2). Substitution of Key Personnel 1. The Contractor shall assign to the contract those persons whose resumes were submitted with its offer who are necessary to fill the requirements of this contract. No substitutions shall be made except in accordance with this clause. The Contractor shall not allow personnel substitutions during the contract performance period unless the Contractor promptly notifies the Contracting Officer, with a copy to the COR, and provides the information required by paragraph (3) below. All proposed substitutions must be submitted, in writing, at least fifteen (15) working days in advance of the proposed substitutions to the Contracting Officer, and provide the information required by paragraph (3) below. All requests for substitutions must provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions, a complete resume for the proposed substitute, and any other information requested by the Contracting Officer needed to approve or disapprove the proposed substitution. All proposed substitutions must have relevant qualifications that are equal or superior to the qualifications of the person(s) to be replaced. The Contracting Officer or an authorized representative will evaluate such requests and promptly notify the Contractor of approval or disapproval thereof.

b.

2.

3.

c.

For purposes of this contract, Key Personnel are defined as the Contractor employees who will perform significant technical work. 71

The Contractor's Key Personnel for this contract are: Name: ________________________________ Office No: ___________________ Fax No: ________________ E-Mail Address: ____________________________________________ Name: ________________________________ Office No: ___________________ Fax No: ________________ E-Mail Address: ____________________________________________ 6.0 Cybersecurity/IT Security

I. DEFINITIONS Adequate Security Security that is commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information. This includes assuring that systems and applications in use operate effectively and provide appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability through the use of managerial, operational, and technical security controls. Availability To ensure the timely and reliable access to, and use of, information. Confidentiality Preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information. Information Assurance Information Assurance (IA) are the measures that protect and defend information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non- repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection, and reaction capabilities. Information Resource An information resource encompasses both information and information related resources such as personnel, equipment, data, and information technology. Information System A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, transmission, and dissemination of information, in accordance with defined procedures, whether automated or manual. Information Technology With respect to the CFPB, information technology means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, used in the automatic acquisition, 72

storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the CFPB, if the equipment is used by the CFPB directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the CFPB that requires the use: (i) of that equipment; or (ii) of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. Information technology includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources; but does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract. Integrity Guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity. Service Provider Service Providers are non-CFPB entities that support the CFPB mission and information systems. These are any individual or other legal entity that (1) directly or indirectly (e.g., through an affiliate), submits offers for or is awarded, or reasonably may be expected to submit offers for or be awarded, a Government contract, including a contract for carriage under Government or commercial bills of lading, or a subcontract under a Government contract; or (2) conducts business, or reasonably may be expected to conduct business, with the Government as an agent or representative of another service provider. Service providers are classified one of two ways: contracted or shared. ˇ Contracted Service Provider

A Contracted Service Provider (CSP) is a general term used to refer to outsourced business processes supported by private sector information systems, outsourced information technologies, or outsourced information services. A CSP performs clearly defined functions for which there are readily identifiable security considerations and needs that are addressed in both acquisition and operations. With the exception of material consequential to the contract, many CSPs conduct operations using Government Furnished Equipment (GFE). However, some CSPs may perform its own purchasing activities independent of government control in which case they would not use GFE. ˇ Shared Service Provider

A Shared Service Provider (SSP) is another federal agency functioning as a service provider for the CFPB. The CFPB and other federal agency would sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), Interagency Agreement (IAA) or Data Exchange Agreement. 73

II. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (1) The service provider shall be responsible for adhering to CFPB information technology (IT) security requirements for all information systems connected to an CFPB network or operated by the service provider for, or on behalf of, the CFPB, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology, information resources or services for which the service provider must have physical or electronic access to CFPB information. (2) CFPB information technology and information assigned to service providers shall remain in the United States. The maintenance, operation, and/or processing of said technology and information must take place, and originate from, within the United States. (3) The service provider shall maintain a complete and accurate inventory of all CFPBprovided information resources. The inventory shall be made available for inspection immediately upon request by the CFPB. (4) The service provider facility hosting CFPB information resources must meet all applicable federal, state, and local zoning, environmental, and building laws and regulations. The facility must include protection against unauthorized access at all hours, including alarms and notification systems should such protection be breached. (5) Confirmed security compromises to CFPB information must be reported to the CFPB within 60 minutes of discovery by the service provider. (6) The service provider shall ensure that its employees, in the performance of the contract, receive and document annual information security awareness training in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 and Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) requirements. (7) The service provider shall grant the Government access to any and all facilities and information resources used in support of the contract. The CFPB shall conduct annual reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented, enforced, effective, and operating as intended. These reviews include, but are not limited to, comprehensive technical testing of the control environment used to safeguard CFPB information resources. (8) At the expiration of the contract, the service provider shall return all CFPB information resources provided to, or generated by, the service provider during the period of the contract. The service provider shall provide certification that all CFPB information has been sanitized from any non- GFE information system in accordance with CFPB standards and procedures. All equipment sanitization procedures must be environmentally sound as outlined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

74

(9) The service provider shall comply with the terms of the Government furnished property clauses in this contract for any CFPB-issued IT that is lost, stolen, missing, unaccounted for, or damaged. (10) For the purposes of application development, the CFPB encourages and prefers the use of web- based, commercial-off-the-shelf solutions. Web-based applications must be configured to work with multiple browser and operating system types and may not favor one browser type over another. (11) The service provider will adhere to CFPB common security configurations and practices. Security configurations and practices include: A. The provider of information technology shall certify applications are fully functional and operate as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) and other operating system and application standards. B. Final acceptance of the product will be based on the CFPB interpretation of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, National Checklist Program Repository (NIST, NCPR). Checklists are available at the NIST, NCPR website. In situations where security configurations are not available for proposed technologies, the CFPB shall provide instruction. C. The installation, operation, maintenance, and update of software shall not alter any CFPB- accepted or established security configuration. D. Applications designed for users shall run in standard user context without elevated system administrator privileges. E. Products specifically designed for the purpose of Information Assurance (IA), and designated as such by the CFPB, are exempt from these common security configuration requirements. Non-GFE IT is exempted by the CFPB on a case-bycase basis. (12) The service provider shall notify the Contracting Officer and the COR within 30 days of any organizational change or impact that may interfere with the full execution of the contract. (13) Throughout the term of the contract, should the service provider deliver a product or provide a service that does not meet (and maintain) these requirements the service provider, at their own expense, will correct issues within 90 days of notification by the Contracting Officer.

75

III. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS (1) The service provider shall have fully completed, attested to, and submitted to the Contracting Officer the CFPB's Service Provider Self-Assessment prior to the execution of the contract. (2) The service provider shall maintain a computing environment with adequate security at all times. This includes, but is not limited to, the description and documentation of the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure the security of IT resources that are developed, processed, transmitted, used, or maintained under this contract and comprehensive technical testing of the Contractor's computing environment by the CFPB. (3) Prior to the execution of the contract, the CFPB may validate adequate security controls in the Contractor environment. When a validation is required, the validation will be conducted by the CFPB as part of an on-site inspection process. (A) The Contractor agrees to demonstrate, to personnel authorized by the CFPB, the technical, operational, and management safeguards that protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of CFPB information that it develops, processes, transmits, uses, or maintains during the execution of this contract. (B) The on-site inspection serves to ensure the computing environment complies with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA); and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A-130, FIPS Publications 199 and 200, and Department of the Treasury Directive 85-01. Copies of these documents are maintained by the CFPB Office of Cybersecurity and are available upon request. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable statutes, regulations, and guidance may be cause for contract termination. (C) The service provider must maintain an active information security program. The program shall specifically address methods regarding handling and protecting CFPB information at the Contractor's site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor's computer systems), and the secure management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and telecommunications systems. (D) The service provider may use additional safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of CFPB information other than as provided for by this contract as deemed necessary. (E) The service provider shall, at their own expense, take action to mitigate any harmful effect that is known to the service provider of a use or disclosure of CFPB information by the Contractor in violation of the requirements of this clause. 76

IV. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CFPB (1) The CFPB Office of Cybersecurity maintains information on current information security requirements and standards and will provide details upon request. The service provider will be notified of any substantive changes to information security requirements that have a significant impact on the Service Provider's information security obligations under this contract. (2) The CFPB will evaluate the need for a new on-site inspection at a minimum once each year. The CFPB in its sole discretion may determine that a new on-site inspection is necessary. 7.0 Period of Performance The contract base period of performance shall be from approximately March 2, 2012 to March 1, 2013. The contract also includes four (4) one-year option periods using the approximate dates indicated below. The total potential period of performance, if all option periods are exercised, shall not exceed 5 years. Option Period I ­ March 2, 2013 to March 1, 2014 Option Period II ­ March 2, 2014 to March 1, 2015 Option Period III ­ March 2, 2015 to March 1, 2016 Option Period IV ­ March 2, 2016 to March 1, 2017 8.0 Contracting Officer a. The Contracting Officer for this contract is: LAURENT E. PICHET Office of Procurement Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) 1700 G Street, NW WASHINGTON, DC 20006 Phone Number: 202-435-7571 b. The Contracting Officer, in accordance with Subpart 1.6 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, is the only person authorized to make or approve any changes in any of the requirements of this contract, and notwithstanding any clauses contained elsewhere in this contract, the said authority remains solely with the Contracting Officer. In the event the Contractor makes any changes at the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the change will be considered to have been made without authority and no adjustment will be made in the contract price to cover any increase in cost incurred as a result thereof.

77

9.0

Contracting Officer's Representative (COR/COTR) Designation and Authority a. The contracting officer's technical representative is: [To be provided by the Government at time of award] b. Performance of work under this contract must be subject to the technical direction of the COR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term "technical direction " includes, without limitation, direction to the Contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily. c. Technical direction must be within the scope of the specification(s)/work statement. The COR does not have authority to issue technical direction that: (1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the specification(s); (2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled "Changes"; (3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance; (4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract; (5) Interferes with the Contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or (6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the Contractor's employees. d. Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COR shall confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the contracting officer. e. The Contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COR. If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any direction of the COR, or his/her designee, falls within the limitations in (c), above, the Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day. f. Failure of the Contractor and the contracting officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled "Disputes."

78

10.0

Contractor Project Manager

a. The Contractor's designated Project Manager/Account Representative for this contract is: Name: ________________________________ Office No: ___________________ Fax No: ________________ E-Mail Address: ____________________________________________ b. The Project Manager/Account Representative shall be responsible for the overall management and coordination of this contract and shall act as the central point of contact with the Government. The Project Manager shall have full authority to act for the Contractor in the performance of the required services. The Project Manager, or a designated representative, shall meet with the COR to discuss problem areas as they occur. The Project Manager/Account Representative or designated representative shall respond within four hours after notification of the existence of a problem. The Project Manager shall be able to fluently read, write, and speak the English language. 11.0 Payment Schedule [To be determined at contract award] 12.0 Invoices

a. Invoices shall be submitted in electronically to the following address in accordance with Section III, Section 4.0 "Payment Schedule": CFP@BPD.treas.gov; Laurent.Pichet@cfpb.gov; and Mark.Egerman@cfpb.gov b. A copy of the invoice shall also be submitted to the COR and Contracting Officer via e-mail simultaneously. c. Submission of proper invoices shall be rendered on a percentage complete basis in an amount equal to the value of the work performed. d. Each invoice submitted shall be supported by appropriate documentation as follows: (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include -- (i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number;

79

(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. e. Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. 13.0 Period For Acceptance of Offers

The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers. 14.0 Transparency

The CFPB is dedicated to transparency and plans on making contracts available to the public after award. If selected for award, your firm will agree to submit, within ten business (10) days from the date the contract is awarded (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays), a .pdf file of the fully executed task order with all proposed necessary redactions, including redactions of any trade secrets or any 80

commercial or financial information that it believes to be privileged or confidential business information, for the purpose of public disclosure at the sole discretion of the CFPB. The Contractor agrees to provide a detailed written statement specifying the basis for each of its proposed redactions, including the applicable exemption under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. § 552, and, in the case of FOIA Exemption 4, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(4), shall demonstrate why the information is considered to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by the Contractor in response to this requirement may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA. The CFPB will carefully consider all proposed redactions and associated grounds for nondisclosure prior to making a final determination as to what information in the fully executed contract may be properly withheld. 15.0 52.217-9 Option To Extend The Term Of The Contract (MAR 2000)

a. The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within fifteen (15) days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least thirty (30) days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. b. If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. c. The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years. 16.0 52.227-14 RIGHTS IN DATA --GENERAL (DEC 2007)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- "Computer database" or "database means" a collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. "Computer software"-- (1) Means (i) Computer programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations; and (ii) Recorded information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. (2) Does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. 81

"Computer software documentation" means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. "Data" means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information. "Form, fit, and function data" means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, and data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements. For computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithms, processes, formulas, and flow charts of the software. "Limited rights" means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of paragraph (g)(3) if included in this clause. "Limited rights data" means data, other than computer software, that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, to the extent that such data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, including minor modifications. "Restricted computer software" means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret, is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, or is copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of the computer software. "Restricted rights," as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software. "Technical data" means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software documentation). This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature that is included in computer databases (See 41 U.S.C. 403(8)). "Unlimited rights" means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and

82

display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. (b) Allocation of rights. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government shall have unlimited rights in-- (i) Data first produced in the performance of this contract; (ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this contract; (iii) Data delivered under this contract (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this contract; and (iv) All other data delivered under this contract unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause. (2) The Contractor shall have the right to-- (i) Assert copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; (ii) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause; (iii) Substantiate the use of, add, or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and (iv) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause. (c) Copyright-- (1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. (i) Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor may, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, assert copyright in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract and published in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings, or similar works. The prior, express written permission of the Contracting Officer is required to assert copyright in all other data first produced in the performance of this contract. (ii) When authorized to assert copyright to the data, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, and an acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number). (iii) For data other than computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, 83

worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly by or on behalf of the Government. For computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license in such copyrighted computer software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly (but not to distribute copies to the public) by or on behalf of the Government. (2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract unless the Contractor-- (i) Identifies the data; and (ii) Grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause or, if such data are restricted computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (g)(4) of this clause (if included in this contract) or as otherwise provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this contract. (3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government will not remove any authorized copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and will include such notices on all reproductions of the data. (d) Release, publication, and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except-- (1) As prohibited by Federal law or regulation (e.g., export control or national security laws or regulations); (2) As expressly set forth in this contract; or (3) If the Contractor receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this contract that contain restrictive markings, the Contractor shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless specifically authorized otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer. (e) Unauthorized marking of data. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this contract are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(3) or (g) (4) if included in this clause, and use of the notices is not authorized by this clause, or if the data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this contract, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Contractor, or cancel or ignore the markings. However, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 253d, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings.

84

(i) The Contracting Officer will make written inquiry to the Contractor affording the Contractor 60 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings; (ii) If the Contractor fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 60-day period (or a longer time approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions. (iii) If the Contractor provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer will consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Contractor will be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer will furnish the Contractor a written determination, which determination will become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Contractor files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officer's decision. The Government will continue to abide by the markings under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer's determination becoming final (in which instance the Government will thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed. (2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder. (3) Except to the extent the Government's action occurs as the result of final disposition of the matter by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Contractor is not precluded by paragraph (e) of the clause from bringing a claim, in accordance with the Disputes clause of this contract, that may arise as the result of the Government removing or ignoring authorized markings on data delivered under this contract. (f) Omitted or incorrect markings. (1) Data delivered to the Government without any restrictive markings shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights. The Government is not liable for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. (2) If the unmarked data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Contractor may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer in writing for good cause shown) after delivery of the data,

85

permission to have authorized notices placed on the data at the Contractor's expense. The Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Contractor-- (i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied; (ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent; (iii) Establishes that the proposed notice is authorized; and (iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice. (3) If data has been marked with an incorrect notice, the Contracting Officer may-- (i) Permit correction of the notice at the Contractor's expense if the Contractor identifies the data and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or (ii) Correct any incorrect notices. (g) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. (1) The Contractor may withhold from delivery qualifying limited rights data or restricted computer software that are not data identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause. As a condition to this withholding, the Contractor shall-- (i) Identify the data being withheld; and (ii) Furnish form, fit, and function data instead. (2) Limited rights data that are formatted as a computer database for delivery to the Government shall be treated as limited rights data and not restricted computer software. (3) [Reserved] (h) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractor's obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government those rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and shall not proceed with the subcontract award without authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. (i) Relationship to patents or other rights. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government.

86

C

ATTACHMENTS

87

ATTACHMENT 1 - SAMPLE SUBCONTRACTING PLAN Contractor: _________________________________________________ Address: __________________________________________________ __________________________________________________ Solicitation Number: Item/Service: Collection, Transmission, Validation, Aggregation, Reporting, Storage, and Analysis of Credit Card Data Amount of Contract: Estimated $________________ Period of Contract Performance: ____________________ I. Goals The Contractor shall submit its proposed subcontracting goals 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year during the term of this contract, or by such other date as authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. This submittal shall include goals for Small Business concerns (SB), Veteran-Owned Small Business concerns (VOSB), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business concerns (SDVOSB), HUBZone Small Business concerns (HUBZone), Small Disadvantaged Business concerns (SDB), and Women-Owned Small Business concerns (WOSB), collectively referred to as "small business concerns". Goals may be negotiated once each fiscal year and incorporated into the contract. The proposed goals shall be based upon the estimated budget and commercial purchases, including those for Large Business concerns (LB), which will be derived from the current fiscal year budget. Goals may be changed within the first six months of each fiscal year by agreement between the Contracting Officer and the Contractor if there is a cancellation or an addition of program or project funding. Goals for the utilization of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB subcontractors shall be submitted as follows unless otherwise required by the Contracting Officer. The goals shall be expressed in both dollars and percentages for LB, SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB.

88

A.

The following percentage goals (expressed in terms of a percentage of total planned subcontracting dollars) are applicable to the contract period Year One. 1. The total estimated dollar value of all planned subcontracting (to all types of business concerns) under this contract is $__________________ (100%) a. LB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with large businesses (all business concerns classified as "other than small") (% of 1. above): $_______________ and __________%. SB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with small businesses (include SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns) (% of 1. above): $____________ and _________% VOSB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with veteran-owned small businesses (% of 1. above): $____________ and _________%. This amount is included in the amount shown under A.1.b, above, as a subset. SDVOSB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (% of 1. above): $____________ and _________%. This amount is included in the amount shown under A.1.b, above, as a subset. HUBZone Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with HUBZone small businesses (% of 1. above): $____________ and _________%. This amount is included in the amount shown under A.1.b, above, as a subset. SDB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with small disadvantaged businesses (% of 1. above): $____________ and _________%. This amount is included in the amount shown under A.1.b, above, as a subset. WOSB Concerns. Total estimated dollar value and percent of planned subcontracting with small women-owned businesses (% of 1. above): $____________ and 89

b.

c.

d.

e.

f.

g.

_________%. This amount is included in the amount shown under A.1.b, above, as a subset. B. A description of all the types of products and/or services that will be acquired under this contract is necessary to determine how the subcontracted dollars are to be spent. 1. The following principal products and/or services will be subcontracted under this contract, and the types of businesses supplying them are as follows: Business Size (Other, SB, VOSB Subcontract % SDVOSB, SDB, Description or HUBZone, SDB, WOSB Dollar Amount _____________ _____________ _____________ _______________ _______________ _______________

Subcontracted Product/Service _______________ _______________ _______________

(Attachment may be used if additional space is required.) 2. Include a description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals for SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns; i.e., explain the method and state the quantitative basis (in dollars) used to establish the percentage goals; how the areas to be subcontracted to SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns were determined; and how the capabilities of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB were determined. Include any source lists used in the determination process. _____________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________ 3. Indirect cost have____ have not ____ been included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals stated above. (Check one) If indirect costs have been included, explain the method used to determine the proportionate share of such costs to be allocated as subcontracts to SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns.

4.

90

II.

PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR The subcontracting plan is to be administered by the Contractor to assure that the provisions of applicable law and the plan are implemented and performed. Any change in the name of the program administrator will be communicated in writing to the Contracting Officer not more than thirty (30) days after such change, but will not require an immediate contract modification. Such change(s), if any, will be included in the next applicable supplemental agreement Contract modification. The name, title, position within the corporate structure, and duties and responsibilities of the employee who will administer the Contractor's subcontracting program. Name: Title: Address: Telephone #: Facsimile #: E-Mail: ___________________________________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________ ___________________________________

Duties: Has general overall responsibility for the Contractor's subcontracting program, i.e., developing, preparing, and executing individual subcontracting plans and monitoring performance relative to the requirements of this particular plan. The actual duties of how the administrator will carry out the requirements of this individual plan should be stated here. These duties may include, but are not limited to, the following activities:
ˇ

Developing and maintaining bidders lists of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns from as many sources as possible; Ensuring that procurement packages are structured to permit participation of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns to the maximum extent possible; Ensuring inclusion of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns whose capabilities coincide with solicitations requiring their products or services; Reviewing solicitations to identify and remove any statements, clauses, etc., which may restrict or prohibit participation of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns; Ensure establishment and maintenance of records of solicitations and subcontract award activity;

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

91

ˇ

Attending or arranging for attendance of company counselors at Business Opportunity Workshops, Minority Business Enterprise Seminars, Trade Fairs, etc.; Monitoring achievement of proposed goals; Preparing and submitting semi-annual and annual subcontract reports; Coordinating Contractor's activities prior to and during conduct of Federal agency compliance reviews; and Other duties include: ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________.

ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ

III.

EQUITABLE OPPORTUNITIES AND OUTREACH EFFORTS Describe efforts the offeror will make to ensure that SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns will have an equitable opportunity to compete for and secure subcontracts. These efforts may include, but are not limited to, the following activities: A. Outreach efforts to obtain sources: 1. 2. 3. Contacting minority and small business trade associations; Contacting business development organizations; Attending small and minority business procurement conferences and trade fairs; Requesting sources from the Central Contractor Registration (CCR); Utilizing newspapers and magazine ads to encourage new sources; Other participation in efforts or activities to expand the socioeconomic database for this contract;

4.

5. 6.

92

7.

Utilizing book references, catalogs, source lists, or other reference material to identify SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB sources before the acquisitions are placed by the buying activities; and Additional Efforts ______________________________________ _____________________________________________________.

8.

B.

Internal efforts to guide and encourage procurement personnel: 1. Presenting workshops, seminars, and training programs on requirements of this plan; Establishing, maintaining, and using SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB source lists, guides, and other data for soliciting subcontracts; Monitoring activities to evaluate compliance with the subcontracting plan; and Additional Efforts ____________________________.

2.

3.

4. IV.

SUBCONTRACTING PLAN FLOWDOWN The Contractor agrees to include the provisions under FAR 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns, in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. All subcontractors, except small business concerns, which receive subcontracts in excess of $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction) must adopt and comply with a plan similar to the plan required by FAR 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (FAR Part 19.704). The prime Contractor cannot alter this requirement.

V.

REPORTS AND SURVEYS The Contractor gives assurance of: A. Cooperation in any studies or surveys that may be required by the contracting agency, or the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA); Submission of periodic reports, which show compliance with the subcontracting plan; and The Contractor shall submit the Individual Subcontracting Report (ISR) and Summary Subcontract Report (SSR), using the Government's Electronic Subcontract Reporting Systems (eSRS). The Contractor shall submit the ISR and SSR reports electronically to a single, government- wide system, which can be accessed at the following 93

B. C.

website: www.esrs.gov. The eSRS is a single reporting tool for all subcontracting plan accomplishments, will streamline the reporting process, and provide the Government with immediate access to the Contractor's subcontracting data. The Contractor shall be responsible for inputting accurate and complete reports into the eSRS. Contractor reporting of ISR and SSR accomplishments using the eSRS will commence upon receipt of written notification from the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. D. Reporting Period Oct 1 - Mar 31 Apr 1 - Sep 30 Report Due ISR ISR Due Date April 30th Oct 30th 30 days of Contract Completion Oct 30th

Contract Completion ISR Oct 1 - Sep 30 SSR

VI. RECORDS AND PROCEDURES The following is a recitation of the types of records and procedures the Contractor will maintain to demonstrate compliance with the requirements and goals in the subcontracting plan. These records will include, but are not limited to the following: A. If the prime Contractor is not using CCR as its source for SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB concerns, list the names of guides and other data identifying such vendors; Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB sources; On a contract-by-contract basis, records on each subcontract solicitation resulting in an award of more than the simplified acquisition threshold indicating whether SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, SDB, and WOSB concerns were solicited and/or why they were not, and, if applicable, the reason that the award was not made to a small business concern; Records to support other outreach efforts, e.g., contacts with minority and small business trade associations, attendance at small and minority business procurement conferences and trade fairs; Records to support internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through (1) workshops, seminars, training programs, incentive 94

B.

C.

D.

E.

awards; and (2) monitoring of activities subcontract award data including the name, address, and business size of each subcontractor (this item is not required on a contract-by-contract basis for company or division-wide commercial plans); F. On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support subcontract award data including the name, address, and the business size of each subcontractor (this item is not required on a contract-by-contract basis for company or division-wide commercial plans); and Additional Records: ____________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ __________________

G.

This subcontracting plan was submitted by: Signed: ______________________________________ Typed Name: _________________________________ Title: ________________________________________ Date: ________________________________________ Phone No.: ___________________________________ E-mail: ______________________________________

PLAN ACCEPTED BY: ___________________________________ CFPB Contracting Officer Date: ____________

PLAN APPROVED BY: _______________________________ CFPB Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Date: ____________

95

ATTACHMENT 2: NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT Collection, Transmission, Validation, Aggregation, Reporting, Storage, and Analysis of Credit Card Data (CCD Services) RFP # CFP-12-R-00001 Conditional Access to Sensitive But Unclassified or Controlled Unclassified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement I, ___________________________________, hereby consent to the terms in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted conditional access to certain United States Government documents or material sensitive but unclassified and/or confidential unclassified information. I understand and agree to the following terms and conditions: 1. By being granted conditional access to sensitive but unclassified or confidential unclassified information (SBU/CUI), the United States Government has placed special confidence and trust in me and I am obligated to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. As used in the Agreement, SBU/CUI is any information the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 USC 522a, but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. I am being granted conditional access contingent upon my execution of this Agreement for the sole purpose of providing services under the Contract resulting from the subject Request for Quote (RFP). This approval will permit me conditional access to certain information, documents, memoranda, reports, testimony, deliberations, maps, assessments, etc. and/or to attend meetings in which such information is discussed or otherwise made available to me. This Agreement will not allow me access to materials which the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) predetermined, in its sole discretion, are inappropriate for disclosure pursuant to this Agreement. This may include SBU/CUI information provided to CFPB other agencies of the United States Government. I will never divulge any SBU/CUI that is provided to me pursuant to this Agreement to anyone, unless I have been advised in writing by CFPB that the individual is authorized to receive it. Should I desire to make use of any SBU/CUI information, I will do so in accordance with paragraph 6 of this 96

2.

3.

4.

Agreement. I will submit to CFPB for a security review, prior to any submissions for publication, any book, article, column or other written work for general publication that is based upon any knowledge I obtained during the course of my work on the collection, aggregation, storage and reporting analytics of credit card data under the Contract resulting from the subject RFP in order for the CFPB to ensure that SBU/CUI is disclosed. 5. I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of SBU/CUI not consistent with the terms of this Agreement. If I am permitted, at the sole discretion of the CFPB, to review any official documents containing SBU/CUI, such review will be conducted at a secure facility or under circumstances that will maintain the security protection of such materials. I will not be permitted to and will not make any copies of documents or parts of documents to which conditional access is granted to me. Any notes taken during the course of such access will remain at the CFPB, to be placed in secure storage unless it is determined by CFPB officials that the notes contain no SBU/CUI. If I wish to have the notes released to me, CFPB officials will review the notes for the purposes of deleting any SBU/CUI to create a redacted copy of the notes. If I do not wish a review of any notes that I make, those notes will remain in secure storage at the CFPB. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I understand that the unauthorized disclosure of SBU/CUI could compromise the security of the CFPB. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such violation may result in the cancellation of my conditional access to SBU/CUI. This may serve as a basis for denying me conditional access to CFPB information, both SBU/CUI in the future. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the United States may institute a civil action for damages or any other appropriate relief. The willful disclosure of information to which I have agreed herein not to divulge may constitute a criminal offence. Unless and until I am provided a written release by the CFPB from this Agreement or any portions of it, all conditions and obligations contained in this Agreement apply both during my period of conditional access, which shall terminate at the conclusion of my, and at all times thereafter. Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should find any provisions of this Agreement unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

97

11.

I understand that the United States Government may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement, including, but not limited to, application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in breach of this Agreement. By granting me conditional access to information in this context, the United States Government does not waive any statutory or common law evidentiary privileges or protections that it may assert in any administrative or court proceeding to protect any SBU/CUI to which I have been given conditional access under the terms of this Agreement. These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights or liabilities created by Executive Order 12356; Section 7211 of Title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); Section 1034 of Title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); Section 2302(b)(8) of Title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); The Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a, Public Law No. 93-579, (Dec. 31, 1974) establishes a Code of Fair Information Practice that governs the collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of personally identifiable information about individuals that is maintained in systems of records by federal agencies; the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents), and the statutes that protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 128, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 USC Section 783 (b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling. My execution of this Agreement shall not nullify or effect in any manner any other secrecy or nondisclosure Agreement which I have executed or may execute with the United States Government. I make this Agreement in good faith, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion.

12.

13.

14.

15.

______________________________________ Name (Print) ______________________________________ Signature

_____________________ Date

98

This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a prior condition on conditional access to SBU/CUI.

_____________________________________ Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

_____________________ Date

99

ATTACHMENT 3 SAMPLE SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PLAN
Check the applicable size and categories for the PRIME Offeror ­ Check all applicable boxes: { } Large Prime or { } Small Business Prime; also categorized as a { } Small Disadvantaged Business { } Woman-Owned Small Business { } HUB Zone Small Business { } Veteran-Owned Small Business { } Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Submit the total combined percentage of work planned to be performed by both large and small businesses (include the percentage of work to be performed by the Prime Contractor and all team members, i.e., subcontractors, joint ventures, etc) based on total contract value: Example: If a Contractor proposes a price of $1,000,000 (including all options), and small business(es) (whether a prime or subcontractor) will provide $250,000 in services/supplies, the percent planned for small businesses is 25%; and 75% for large business equaling 100%. Percentage of Total Contract Dollars/Price Total Percentage planned for Large Business(es) _______% = $ _______ Total Percentage planned for Small Business(es) _______% = $ _______ Total: 100%

Please indicate the total percentage of participation planned to be performed by each type of small business. The percentage of work performed by small businesses that qualify in multiple small business categories may be counted in each category:

100

Example: ABC Mgt (WOSB and SDVOSB) performing 2%; and XYZ, LLC (SDB, HZ and WOSB) performing 3%. Results equate to: SDB 3%; HZ 3%; WOSB 5%; SDVOSB 2%; VOSB 2%). SDVOSBs are also VOSBs automatically; however VOSBs are not automatically SDVOSBs. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) HUBZone Small Business (HZ) Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned SB (SDVOSB) Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) _________% _________% _________% _________% _________%

List meaningful supplies/services to be performed by Small Businesses and indicate the role the small business plays on this acquisition whether the small business is a prime Contractor (Prime), subcontractor (SUB), joint venture team member (JV) or if applicable, a Contractor Team Arrangement member (CTA): Example: If a Small Business qualifies also as a WOSB and a SDVOSB, and you can add them to each category below in which they qualify. Name of Company Small: ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________ ______________________ ______________________ _________________ _________________ _________________ Type of Service/Supply Prime/SUB/JV/CTA

SDB: ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________ ______________________ _________________ _________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

WOSB: ______________________________ ______________________ _________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

101

______________________________ HZ: ______________________________

______________________

_________________

______________________

_________________

______________________________ ______________________________ VOSB: ______________________________ ______________________________

______________________ ______________________

_________________ _________________

______________________ ______________________

_________________ _________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

SDVOSB: ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________ ______________________ _________________ _________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

Describe the extent of commitment to use small businesses (for example, what types of commitments if any are in place for this specific acquisition either -- mentor-protégé, joint venturing, subcontracting, and Contractor team arrangements, if applicable). Indicate if copies of agreements or documents are attached. Type of Commitment ______________________________ Name of Contractor ______________________ Copy Attached (Y/N) _________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

______________________________

______________________

_________________

Small Business Past Performance: Describe the extent to which you utilized small

102

businesses on previous contracts. _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ Provide an explanation on the types of records it will maintain to demonstrate procedures that have been adopted to comply with the requirements of Sections L and M of the solicitation, i.e., source lists, list of organizations contacted to locate sources, any outreach efforts, workshops, performance monitoring, etc. _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________

Describe efforts to assure that all small businesses have an equitable opportunity to participate on this contract. _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ Point of Contact for the Small Business Participation Plan Administration. The following individual shall serve as the point of contact for administration of the Plan. Name/Title: _______________________________________________________ Address: _________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________ Telephone: _______________________________________________________ Email: ___________________________________________________________

103

ATTACHMENT 4 FIELD DEFINITIONS
CFPB Field Definitions ­ Credit Card Metrics General Purpose, Private Label & Business for Domestic Portfolios Definitions Last Revised March 24, 2009

Please Note: The numbers displayed in this document are reference numbers to the data elements, not an ordinal numbering. As new data elements were added to the original version of the list, they were often inserted into the document and not appended to the end. NO DATA ELEMENTS ARE MISSING.
The following are definitions for the account level data fields we expect to collect monthly. Data should be reported on a managed basis (securitized and bank-owned) unless otherwise noted. Most fields should be reported as of month end, though for some we specifically ask for cycle date information. All accounts (pre-charge-off) should be reported as well as all accounts charged-off within past 12 months. If data is missing, report as a null or leave the field blank. If no credit or debit activity occurred over a reporting period, populate the field with a zero. Blanks should only be reported for unknown or missing values. Business cards should exclude corporate and government cards, and be provided at the billed account level (i.e., individual pay or control account, not sub account). For each account report: 1. Reference Number ­ a unique identifier for the loan record that will be the same month to month. A reference number shall be used in lieu of the actual account number. The reference number shall identify the account or account relationship (for Business Credit Cards) for its entire life. Incumbent aggregator developed a practice for the identification or generation of this identifier and the safeguarding of account privacy information. Replacement accounts will need to be linked. Banks will need to work with aggregator on mapping cross reference account numbers. This may require another data field. 2. State ­ report the state the cardholder currently reports as their billing address. If account originated in the US and the card member has subsequently moved to a foreign country, report as non-US. a. State postal code b. Non-US c. APO 3. Zip Code ­ report the zip code the cardholder reported as their billing address (5 digits for U.S. accounts). 4. Country ­ report the country on the current billing address. If country codes reported by the banks are not consistent, the aggregator shall ensure that a uniform set of country codes are stored in the system for the CFPB. 5. Credit Card Type ­ report each account in one of the following categories:

104

a. General Purpose ­ can be used at a wide variety of merchants, including any who accept MasterCard, Visa, American Express or Discover credit cards. Include affinity, co-brand cards in this category, and student card if applicable. b. Private Label ­ also known as Proprietary Credit Cards, are tied to the retailer issuing the card and can only be used in that retailer's stores. Include oil & gas cards in this loan type, and student cards if applicable. c. Business Card ­ Include small business credit card accounts where the loan is underwritten with the sole proprietor or primary business owner as applicant. Report at the control account level or the individual pay level (not at the sub-account level). 6. Product Type ­ Report each account in one of the following product types: a. b. c. d. e. Co-brand Oil and Gas Affinity Student (if internally identified as a student card) Other

7. Secured Credit Card ­ indicate whether the card is included in a program where any portion of the line is secured by collateral. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 8. Loan Source/Channel ­ report the source or channel by which the lender solicited or otherwise acquired the account. The method of solicitation could include direct mail, the internet, take-one applications, or telemarketing. Report each account in one of the following categories: a. Pre-approved ­ accounts originated under a program where the issuer solicits a list of potential customers to which it will make an offer of credit. b. Invitation to Apply "ITA" ­ accounts originated based on a solicitation that required a customer to undergo a full credit review prior to approval. c. Take-One Branch application ­ unsolicited accounts based on customer completing an application obtained at bank. d. Take-One Other application ­ unsolicited accounts based on a customer completing an internet, magazine insert or event marketing application. e. Accounts Purchased from a 3rd Party ­ accounts added as a result of portfolio acquisition or mergers. Do not include here if already included in one of the above channels f. Other.

9. Month Ending Balance ­ report the total balance outstanding on the account as of the monthend reporting date. 10. Cycle Ending Balance ­ report the total outstanding balance for the account at the end of the current month's cycle.

105

11. Cycle Ending Balances Mix ­ segment balances outstanding at the end of the current month's cycle into the following categories as applicable: a. Balances at a Promotional Rate ­ report any amount outstanding priced at rates below the account's normal purchase APR. b. Balances at a Cash Advance Rate ­ report any amount outstanding priced at a cash advance APR. c. Balances Subject to Default or Penalty Pricing ­ report any amount outstanding subject to default or penalty pricing due to performance. d. All Other Balances 12. Cycle Ending Average Daily Balance (ADB) ­ report the sum of the daily balances in the cycle divided by the number of days in the cycle. 13. Account Cycle Date ­ report the date in which transactions were accumulated for billing in the reporting month. Report even if no statement was generated. 14. Account Origination Date ­ report the date on which the original credit card was issued. If unknown due to acquisition or merger, report date account was acquired. 15. Multiple Banking Relationships ­ identify accounts that currently have other non credit card banking relationships (e.g. deposits, trust accounts, investments) with the bank. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 16. Multiple Credit Card Relationships ­ report accounts where the bank has issued more than one credit card to the primary or joint account holder(s). a. Y-Yes b. N-No 17. Joint Account ­ report whether the account has more than one primary obligor. Exclude authorized users. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 18. Flagged as Securitized ­ identify whether the account has been securitized (designated for inclusion in a master trust). a. Y-Yes b. N-No 19. Borrower's Income at Origination -- report the total income obtained at the account's origination (annualized if monthly income was provided).

106

87. Income Source at Origination -- identify whether the original income information related to the primary cardholder's income alone, or on other joint or household income. a. Individual b. Household 20. Updated Borrower's Income -- report the amount of total income if new income information was obtained subsequent to the initial application or acquisition. 88. Updated Income Source ­ identify whether the updated income information was for the primary cardholder only, or for joint or household members also. a. Individual b. Household

21. Date Refreshed Income Obtained -- report the date the new income information was received. 22. Original FICO Score for the primary account holder ­ The FICO score can be based on the credit bureau service the institution uses as its source. Original FICO reflects the score upon which the original underwriting decision was based. If the bank does NOT obtain origination FICO scores, map the internal score or other bureau score used to FICO scores and report that score. For Business Cards, provide the score for the proprietor or primary business owner. 23. Original FICO Score for the co-borrower (if any). Same as above. 24. Refreshed FICO Score ­ a refreshed FICO score is any update to the score used for the original credit decision. Report the most recent score for the primary accountholder. If internal credit scores or other bureau scores are used (as opposed to FICO), map the score to a FICO equivalent and report that score. 25. FICO Score Refresh Date ­ the date the FICO score (or managed internal/other bureau score) was last refreshed. 26. Behavioral Score ­ report the current behavior score available for the account in reporting month. If no score is available leave the field blank. 27. Original Credit Limit ­ report the amount of the credit line set by the card issuer at origination. If unknown due to acquisition or merger, report the credit line at acquisition. 28. Current Credit limit ­ at the reporting month's end. Report the maximum dollar amount that may be borrowed on the account during the reporting month. If no credit limit, report the purchase or shadow limit. 29. Current Cash Advance Limit ­ at the reporting month's end. Report the maximum cash advance amount available to the borrower at the reporting month's end. 30. Line Frozen in the current month ­ report whether the account's credit line is involuntarily frozen and authorizations are prohibited on the account in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes

107

b. N-No 31. Line Decrease in the current month ­ report whether the account remains open but the credit line has been reduced in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 32. Line Increase in the current month ­ report whether the account's credit line was increased in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 33. Preset Spending Limit ­ Identify whether the account has a preset spending limit. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 34. Minimum Payment Due ­ report the current minimum dollar amount due that will roll into the first delinquency bucket if not paid. Use the most recent cycle date. This is generally referred to as minimum payment due on cardholder's statement. 35. Total Payment Due ­ report the dollar amount of the total payment due for the cycle ending in the reporting month. This generally includes current minimum due, past due payments and any amount reported as over the credit limit. 36. Next Payment Due Date ­ report the date the cardholder is told a payment must reach the bank to keep the account in a current status. 37. Actual Payment Amount ­ report the dollar amount of all payments received during the current month's cycle. Aggregate multiple payments. Report net of checks returned for nonsufficient funds, account closed, etc. (even if related to prior cycles). If an account does not statement or a payment was not made, report as zero. 38. Other Credits ­ report the dollar amount of all credits (other than cardholder payments) received during the current month's cycle. Also, exclude fee reversals or waivers (they will be accounted for in the "Fees Incurred" line item). 39. Total Past Due ­ report the dollar amount of delinquent balances at the end of the current month's cycle. 40. Days Past Due ­ report the actual number of days the account is past due at the end of the reporting month. For current accounts, enter zero 41. Cycles Past Due at Cycle Date ­ report the number of cycles the account is past due as of the current month's cycle date. 42. Cycles Past Due at Month-End ­ report the number of cycles the account is past due on the last day of the current reporting month.

108

43. Account Ever 60+ Days Past Due in the last 3 years ­ Report the date on which the account was last 60+ days past due in the last three years. If the account has not been 60+ days past due in the last three years, leave the field blank. 44. Interest Type in current month ­ report whether the Purchase (not promotional) APR is fixed or variable rate. If the account is in temporary workout program, report pre-workout terms. If the account is in permanent workout program, report the workout terms. a. Fixed ­ accounts where the purchase (not promotional) APR is fixed. b. Variable ­ loans where the purchase APR rate fluctuates based on a spread to an index. Report accounts as variable even if there is a temporary initial fixed period. Include as variable even if the APR is at its floor or cap. 45. APR at Cycle End ­ report the purchase APR unless the account is in default or workout. If the account is in default then report the default APR. If the account is in a workout program (temporary or permanent), report the workout APR. 46. Finance Charge ­ report the dollar amount of the net finance charges assessed on the reporting month's statement. If the account did not statement report as zero. 47. Fees Incurred ­ report the dollar amount of fees posted during the current month's cycle for each category below. Report amounts net of reversals or waivers. a. Late Fee ­ assessed for late or nonpayment. b. Over Limit Fee ­ assessed for account exceeding its credit limit. c. Non-sufficient Funds Fee (NSF) ­ assessed against account when payment is returned unpaid for any reason. d. Cash Advance Fee ­ assessed for cash advances made on the credit card. e. Monthly/Annual Fee ­ assessed for the privilege of holding the credit card. f. Debt Suspension/Cancellation Fee ­ assessed to protect consumer in event of a significant life event like the loss of a job.

g. Balance Transfer Fees ­ assessed for balances transferred from another institution to this cardholder's account. h. Other ­ any fee not captured above. Examples include convenience check fees and foreign currency fees. 48. Debt Suspension/Cancellation Program Enrollment ­ report whether the account is enrolled in a debt waiver/cancellation program. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 49. Debt Suspension/Cancellation Program Active ­ report whether the borrower is receiving benefits under a debt suspension/cancellation program. a. Y-Yes b. N-No

109

50. Month-end Account Status ­ report each account in one of the following categories as of month end : a. Open/active ­ if the account has had any debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. b. Open/inactive ­ if the account is open but has no debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. c. Closed or revoked ­ if the account is closed and has no further charging privileges. Include accounts in default, in credit management programs and expired accounts 89. Cycle-end Account Status ­ report each account in one of the following categories as of cycle end: a. Open/active ­ if the account has had any debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. b. Open/inactive ­ if the account is open but has no debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. c. Closed or revoked ­ if the account is closed and has no further charging privileges. Include accounts in default, in credit management programs and expired accounts. 51. Account Closed at Request of Customer at Month-end ­ report whether the account was closed in the reporting month at the request of the borrower as of month end. The account may or may not have a balance. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 90. Account Closed at Request of Customer at Cycle End ­ report whether the account was closed in the reporting month at the request of the borrower as of cycle end. The account may or may not have a balance. Y-Yes N-No 52. Skip-a-payment ­ report whether the account holder opted for a promotional skip-a-payment during the reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 53. Credit Card Workout Program ­ Report whether the account entered into any type of workout program during the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No

110

54. Workout Program Type ­ for accounts in a workout program at month-end, categorize the type of program in one of the options below: a. External Program ­ a permanent external program, often administered by a Consumer Credit Counseling Service (CCCS). b. Internal Long-Term Program ­ an internal program where terms have been modified and the account holder is paying off outstanding balances over an extended period. Include all programs with enrollment durations in excess of 12 months. c. Internal Temporary Programs ­ an internal program where terms are temporarily modified, not to exceed 12 months, in recognition of short term hardship. d. Settlement Programs ­ an agreement where the lender will accept less than the full balance outstanding to satisfy and close the account. e. Other ­ any other workout arrangement. 55. Workout Program Performance Status ­ this field tracks the performance of borrowers in all workout plans. These plans include the external Consumer Credit Counseling Programs, as well as, internal long-term and temporary programs. Report performance as of the reporting date in one of the following categories: a. Active and Performing ­ the borrower is performing as scheduled under the terms of an executed workout program. b. Active and Non-Performing ­ the borrower is in a workout plan but has missed at least one program payment. c. Broken ­ the borrower has defaulted on the terms of an executed plan during the month. Use the bank's internal definition of broken. 56. Settlement Portion Forgiven ­ for any account for which the "Settlement" option has been selected under the Workout Program type, report the total amount of the outstanding balance forgiven in the current month. 57. Collection Re-age Date ­ report the date of the last account re-age performed by the collections department, or in relation to any performance-related delinquency. 58. Customer Service Re-age Date ­ report the date of the last re-age performed by any customer service rep (for example, in response to an erroneous payment posting or other similar nonperformance issue.) 59. Loan Charged-Off in the current month ­ report whether the account incurred any type of charge-off in the current reporting month. Do not include charge-offs related to fraud. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 60. Charge-off Reason ­ identify the reason for charge-off and loss recognition on an account. a. Contractual ­ losses incurred as a result of borrower's inability to make full repayment under the contractual terms of the account.

111

b. Bankruptcy ­ losses incurred as a result of borrower's bankruptcy proceedings. c. Deceased ­ losses incurred as a result of death of account holder. d. Other ­ any other reason. Do not include charge-offs related to fraud. 61. Principal Charge-off Amount ­ report the total amount of any principal write-downs (or principal reversals) on the account during the reporting month. Record all charges against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), using the FFIEC Call Report Instructions as guidance. 62. Interest and Fees Charge-off/Reversal Amount ­ report the total amount of any write-downs, fee waivers, or reversal of loan interest and fees on the account during the reporting month. Interest and fee reversals, waivers or write-downs can include those charged against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), or a separate valuation reserve, or reversed against current period income during the reporting period. 63. Recovery Amount ­ report the dollar amount of any balance recovery from a previously charged-off account collected during the month. 64. Fraud in the current month report whether the account was frozen due to potential fraud or closed for cause at the conclusion of a fraud investigation in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No 91. Purchase Amount ­ report the net purchase dollar volume during the current month's cycle 92. Cash Advance Amount ­ report the net cash advance dollar volume during the current month's cycle 93. Balance Transfer Amount ­ report the balance transfer dollar volume during the current month's cycle 94. Convenience Check Amount ­ report the convenience check dollar volume during the current month's cycle 95. Account Sold Flag ­ Identifies accounts that have been sold. Identifier should persist while the account is reported. a. Y - Yes b. N - No

112

Definitions of Field Elements Collected Monthly at a Portfolio Level 65. End of Period Managed Receivables ­ include the amount of all outstanding credit card receivables, bank owned and securitized, to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount outstanding to individuals for business purposes. 66. End of Period Book Receivables ­ include the amount of outstanding credit card receivables, bank owned only (not securitized, not serviced for others), to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from charges on General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount of extensions of credit to individuals for business purposes. For securitized accounts, the seller's or owner's interest should be included here. 67. Reporting Period Daily Average Managed Receivables ­ include the amount of all outstanding credit card receivables, bank owned and securitized, to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount outstanding to individuals for business purposes. 98. Securitized Receivables - Report the outstanding balance of receivables that have been transferred to a trust for purposes of issuing credit card backed securities, less the bank's ownership or seller's interest. The bank's ownership or seller's interest is generally equal to the total principal amount of assets included in the securitization structure, less the principal amount of those assets attributable to investors, i.e., in the form of securities issued to investors. The seller's interest would not include any interest that is a form of recourse or other seller-provided credit enhancement. 68. ALLL Managed Balance ­ amount of the ALLL assigned to the managed credit card portfolio at the end of the month; include reserves maintained for securitized assets, if any. 69. ALLL Booked Balance ­ amount of the ALLL assigned to the bank-owned credit card portfolio at the end of the month. 70. Projected Managed Losses ­ report the estimated dollar amount of losses for the next 12 months (rolling basis each reporting month) for the entire managed portfolio. 71. Projected Booked Losses ­ report the estimated dollar amount of losses for the next 12 months (rolling basis each reporting month) for the bank-owned portfolio only. For securitized accounts, include estimated losses associated with the seller's interest. 72. Managed Gross Charge-offs for the current month ­ report the dollar amount of gross chargeoffs recognized in the reporting month for the entire managed portfolio. Include any amounts (interest and fees) reversed against income. 73. Booked Gross Charge-offs for the current month ­ report the dollar amount of gross chargeoffs recognized in reporting month for bank-owned receivables. Include any amounts (interest and fees) reversed against income. 96. Managed Recoveries ­ report amounts recovered on credit card loans previously charged-off for the entire managed portfolio.

113

74. Booked Recoveries ­ all recoveries for prior charge-offs on bank-owned receivables, recognized through the ALLL, in the current reporting month. 97. Interest and Fees Charge-off/Reversal Amount - Report the total amount of any write-downs, fee waivers or reversal of loan interest and fees on the credit card receivables during the reporting month. Interest and fee reversals, waivers or write-downs can include those charged against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), or a separate valuation reserve, or reversed against current period income during the reporting period.

114

Definitions of Field Elements for Monthly Portfolio Level Income Statement 75. Interest Income ­ report total interest accrued on credit card receivables for the month, less any interest waived or reversed as uncollectible or any amount added to a contra-asset account for uncollectible interest that the bank maintains and reports separately from the ALLL. Do not include fee income in this category. 76. Fee Income ­ Report total fees assessed on credit card accounts during the month, less any fee waived or reversed as uncollectible or any amount added to a contra-asset account for uncollectible fees that the bank maintains and reports separately from the ALLL. Interchange, annual and debt suspension/cancellation fees should not be reported here. Report fees for each of the following categories: a. Late Fees ­ fee assessed for late or nonpayment on account. b. Over Limit Fees ­ fee assessed for account going over established credit limit. c. Balance Transfer Fees ­ fee assessed for transferring balances from another source outside the bank, such as another financial institution's credit card to a credit card at this bank. d. Convenience Check Fees ­ fee assessed for use of checks provided to access available credit on the account. e. Cash Advance Fees ­ fee assessed for cash advances on the account. f. NSF Fees ­ fee assessed for payments returned unpaid. g. Other Fee Income ­ other fees assessed on an account such as foreign exchange conversion fees, etc. 77. Interest Expense ­ total interest expense accrued for the month to fund credit card receivables. 78. Credit Card Net Interest Margin ­ interest income plus fee income reported above minus interest expense. 79. Total Non-Interest Income ­ report non-interest income for the following categories: a. Interchange Income ­ interchange fees received from the card associations. b. All Other Non-Interest Income ­ any other income, including annual fees, debt suspension/cancellation product fees, etc., associated with card operations. 80. Total Non-Interest Expense ­ report non-interest expense for the following categories: a. Interchange Expense ­ interchange fees paid to the card associations. b. Marketing/Acquisition and Card Processing ­ report cost incurred to acquire advertise, or promote and process credit cards. c. Rewards/Rebates ­ expenses associated with reward and rebate programs for credit cards. d. Collections ­ report cost incurred to collect problem credits. e. Fraud ­ losses incurred as a result of fraudulent activity.

115

f.

All Other Expenses ­ report all other operating and other expenses associated with card operations. This includes servicing, cardholder billing, processing interchange, processing payments, card issuing, authorizations, card administration and outside services/outsourcing expenses, etc.

81. Loan Loss Provision Expense. a. Provision Expense ­ provision expense taken during the month. b. Provision Build ­ additional provision built up during the month. Provision build equals: provision expense + recoveries ­ charge-offs against the ALLL.

84. Extraordinary Items ­ report extraordinary items, which are categorized as material and infrequent, such as gains and/or losses on the sale of credit card portfolios. 85. Taxes ­ tax expense applicable to credit card income. 86. Net Income ­ total revenues less total expenses.

116

ATTACHMENT 5 DATA DICTIONARY

CFPB Credit Card Data Collection Data Dictionary
The field sequence and data type references herein reflect how the data is currently stored

Table of Contents
Account Level ........................... Portfolio Level ........................... 118 132

117

Account Level
Data Element
Reference Number

Column Name
ReferenceNu mber (PK)

Description
A unique identifier for the loan record that will be the same month to month. A reference number shall be used in lieu of the actual account number. The reference number shall identify the account or account relationship (for Business Credit Cards) for its entire life. Vendor (aggregator) will recommend a best practice for the identification or generation of this identifier and the safeguarding of account privacy information. Replacement accounts will need to be linked. Banks will need to work with Vendor on mapping cross reference account numbers. This may require another data field. Identifies the bank. Identifies the reporting period. Report the state the cardholder currently reports as their billing address. If account originated in the US and the card member has subsequently moved to a foreign country, report as non-US. a. State postal code b. Non-US c. APO Report the zip code the cardholder reported as their billing address (5 digits for U.S. accounts). Report the country on the current billing address. If country codes reported by the banks are not consistent, the aggregator shall ensure that a uniform set of country codes are stored in the system for the CFPB Report each account in one of the following categories: a. General Purpose - can be used at a wide variety of merchants, including any who accept MasterCard, Visa, American Express or

Field Ref.
Cross reference to definitions document 1 1

Field Seq.

Data Type
numeric(18,0)

Bank ID Period ID State

BankId PeriodId AccountState

2

2 3 4

int int varchar(2)

Zip Code

AccountZipC ode AccountCoun try

3

5

varchar(5)

Country

4

6

varchar(3)

Credit Card Type

CreditCardTy pe

5

7

tinyint

118

Product Type

ProductType

Discover credit cards. Include affinity, co-brand cards in this category, and student card if applicable. b. Private Label - also known as Proprietary Credit Cards, are tied to the retailer issuing the card and can only be used in that retailer's stores. Include oil & gas cards in this loan type, and student cards if applicable. c. Business Card - Include small business credit card accounts where the loan is underwritten with the sole proprietor or primary business owner as applicant. Report at the control account level or the individual pay level (not at the sub-account level). Report each account in one of the following product types: a. Co-brand b. Oil and Gas c. Affinity d. Student (if internally identified as a student card) e. Other indicate whether the card is included in a program where any portion of the line is secured by collateral. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report the source or channel by which the lender solicited or otherwise acquired the account. The method of solicitation could include direct mail, the internet, take-one applications, or telemarketing. Report each account in one of the following categories: a. Pre-approved - accounts originated under a program where the issuer solicits a list of potential customers to which it will make an offer of credit. b. Invitation to Apply "ITA" - accounts originated based on a solicitation that required a customer to undergo a full credit review prior to approval. c. Take-One Branch application - unsolicited accounts based on customer completing an application obtained at bank. d. Take-One Other application - unsolicited accounts based on a

6

8

tinyint

Secured Credit Type

CreditCardSe curedFlag

7

9

bit

Loan Source/Chann el

LoanChannel

8

10

tinyint

119

Month Ending Balance Cycle Ending Balance Cycle Ending Balances Mix - Promotional Cycle Ending Balances Mix - Cash Cycle Ending Balances Mix - Penalty Cycle Ending Balances Mix - Other Cycle Ending Average Daily Balance (ADB) Account Cycle Date Account Origination Date Multiple Banking Relationships

MonthEnding Balance CycleEnding Balance CycleEnding BalanceProm otional CycleEnding BalanceCash CycleEnding BalancePena lty CycleEnding BalanceOther AverageDaily Balance

customer completing an internet, magazine insert or event marketing application. e. Accounts Purchased from a 3rd Party - accounts added as a result of portfolio acquisition or mergers. Do not include here if already included in one of the above channels f. Other. report the total balance outstanding on the account as of the monthend reporting date. report the total outstanding balance for the account at the end of the current month's cycle. Balances at a Promotional Rate - report any amount outstanding priced at rates below the account's normal purchase APR Balances at a Cash Advance Rate - report any amount outstanding priced at cash advance APR. Balances Subject to Default or Penalty Pricing - report any amount outstanding subject to default or penalty pricing due to performance. All Other Balances outstanding at the end of the current month's cycle for this category Report the sum of the daily balances in the cycle divided by the number of days in the cycle

9

11

money

10

12

money

11a

13

money

11b

14

money

11c

15

money

11d

16

money

12

17

money

AccountCycle EndDate AccountOrigi nationDate MultipleBanki ngRelationshi pFlag

Report the date in which transactions were accumulated for billing in the reporting month. Report even if no statement was generated Report the date on which the original credit card was issued. If unknown due to acquisition or merger, report date account was acquired. Identify accounts that currently have other non credit card banking relationships (e.g. deposits, trust accounts, investments) with the bank.

13

18

date

14

19

date

15

20

bit

120

Multiple Credit Card Relationships

MultipleCard RelationshipF lag

a. Y-Yes b. N-No report accounts where the bank has issued more than one credit card to the primary or joint account holder(s). a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the account has more than one primary obligor. Exclude authorized users. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Identify whether the account has been securitized (designated for inclusion in a master trust). a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report the total income obtained at the account's origination (annualized if monthly income was provided). Income Source at Origination -- identify whether the original income information related to the primary cardholder's income alone, or on other joint or household income. a. Individual b. Household Report the amount of total income if new income information was obtained subsequent to the initial application or acquisition. Identify whether the updated income information was for the primary cardholder only, or for joint or household members also. a. Individual b. Household Report the date the new income information was received

16

21

bit

Joint Account

JointAccount Flag

17

22

bit

Flagged as Securitized

SecuritizedFl ag

18

23

bit

Borrower's Income at Origination Income Source at Origination

BorrowerInco me BorrowerInco meType

19

24

money

87

25

tinyint

Updated Borrower's Income Updated Income Source

UpdatedBorr owerIncome UpdatedBorr owerIncomeT ype

20

26

money

88

27

tinyint

Date Refreshed

DateUpdated BorrowerInco

21

28

date

121

Income Obtained Original FICO Score for the primary account holder

me OriginalFicoS corePrimaryB orrower The FICO score can be based on the credit bureau service the institution uses as its source. Original FICO reflects the score upon which the original underwriting decision was based. If the bank does NOT obtain origination FICO scores, map the internal score or other bureau score used to FICO scores and report that score. For Business Cards, provide the score for the proprietor or primary business owner. Same as "Original FICO Score for the primary account holder" 22 29 smallint

Original FICO Score for the coborrower (if any) Refreshed FICO Score

OriginalFicoS coreCoborro wer

23

30

smallint

RefreshedFic oScorePrimar yBorrower

A refreshed FICO score is any update to the score used for the original credit decision. Report the most recent score for the primary accountholder. If internal credit scores or other bureau scores are used (as opposed to FICO), map the score to a FICO), map the score to a FICO equivalent and report that score. The date the FICO score (or managed internal/other bureau score) was last refreshed. Report the current behavior score available for the account in reporting month. If no score is available leave the field blank. Report the amount of the credit line set by the card issuer at origination. If unknown due to acquisition or merger, report the credit line at acquisition. At the reporting month's end. Report the maximum dollar amount that may be borrowed on the account during the reporting month. If no credit limit, report the purchase or shadow limit. At the reporting month's end. Report the maximum cash advance amount available to the borrower at the reporting month's end.

24

31

smallint

FICO Score Refresh Date Behavioral Score Original Credit Limit

FicoScoreRef reshDate BehavioralSc ore OriginalCredit Limit

25

32

date

26

33

smallint

27

34

money

Current Credit limit

CurrentCredit Limit

28

35

money

Current Cash Advance

CurrentCash AdvanceLimit

29

36

money

122

Limit Line Frozen in the current month

LineFrozenFl ag

Report whether the account's credit line is involuntarily frozen and authorizations are prohibited on the account in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the account remains open but the credit line has been reduced in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the account's credit line was increased in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Identify whether the account has a preset spending limit. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report the current minimum dollar amount due that will roll into the first delinquency bucket if not paid. Use the most recent cycle date. This is generally referred to as minimum payment due on cardholder's statement. Report the dollar amount of the total payment due for the cycle ending in the reporting month. This generally includes current minimum due, past due payments and any amount reported as over the credit limit Report the date the cardholder is told a payment must reach the bank to keep the account in a current status Report the dollar amount of all payments received during the current month's cycle. Aggregate multiple payments. Report net of checks returned for non-sufficient funds, account closed, etc. (even if related to prior cycles). If an account does not statement or a payment was not made, report as zero. Report the dollar amount of all credits (other than cardholder

30

37

bit

Line Decrease in the current month

LineDecreas eFlag

31

38

bit

Line Increase in the current month

LineIncrease Flag

32

39

bit

Preset Spending Limit Minimum Payment Due

PresetSpendi ngLimitFlag

33

40

bit

MinimumPay mentDue

34

41

money

Total Payment Due

TotalPaymen tDue

35

42

money

Next Payment Due Date Actual Payment Amount

NextPayment DueDate ActualPayme ntAmount

36 37

43 44

date money

Other Credits

OtherCredits

38

45

money

123

Total Past Due Days Past Due Cycles Past Due at Cycle Date Cycles Past Due at Month-End Account Ever 60+ Days Past Due in the last 3 years Account 60 Plus DPD Last Three Years Flag Interest Type in current month

TotalPastDue DaysPastDue AccountCycle EndDelinque ncy AccountMont hEndDelinqu ency Last60PlusD PDDate

payments) received during the current month's cycle. Also, exclude fee reversals or waivers (they will be accounted for in the "Fees Incurred" line item). Report the dollar amount of delinquent balances at the end of the current month's cycle. Report the actual number of days the account is past due at the end of the reporting month. For current accounts, enter zero Report the number of cycles the account is past due as of the current month's cycle date Report the number of cycles the account is past due on the last day of the current reporting month Report the date on which the account was last 60+ days past due in the last three years. If the account has not been 60+ days past due in the last three years, leave the field blank.

39 40 41

46 47 48

money smallint tinyint

42

49

tinyint

43

50

date

Account60Pl usDPDLastT hreeYearsFla g InterestType

Missing but this is a flag of True or False for whether it was ever 60+ Days Past Due in the last 3 years (field #43)

51

bit

Report whether the Purchase (not promotional) APR is fixed or variable rate. If the account is in temporary workout program, report pre-workout terms. If the account is in permanent workout program, report the workout terms. a. Fixed - accounts where the purchase (not promotional) APR is fixed. b. Variable - loans where the purchase APR rate fluctuates based on a spread to an index. Report accounts as variable even if there is a temporary initial fixed period. Include as variable even if the APR is at its floor or cap. Report the purchase APR unless the account is in default or workout. If the account is in default then report the default APR. If the account is in a workout program (temporary or permanent), report the workout APR

44

52

varchar(1)

APR at Cycle End

CycleEnding RetailAPR

45

53

numeric(9,6)

124

Finance Charge Fees Incurred - Late Fees Incurred - Over Limit Fees Incurred - NSF Fees Incurred - Cash Advance Fees Incurred - Annual Fees Incurred - Debt Suspension Fees Incurred - Balance Transfer Fees Incurred - Other Debt Suspension/C ancellation Program Enrollment Debt Suspension/C ancellation Program Active Month-end Account Status Active

FinanceChar ge FeeNetLateA mount FeeNetOverL imitAmount FeeNetNSFA mount FeeNetCash AdvanceAmo unt FeeNetAnnu alAmount FeeNetDebtS uspensionAm ount FeeNetBalan ceTransferA mount FeeNetOther Amount DebtWaiverP rogramEnrolF lag

Report the dollar amount of the net finance charges assessed on the reporting month's statement. If the account did not statement report as zero. Late Fee - assessed for late or nonpayment. Over Limit Fee - assessed for account exceeding its credit limit. Non-sufficient Funds Fee (NSF) - assessed against account when payment is returned unpaid for any reason. Cash Advance Fee - assessed for cash advances made on the credit card. Monthly/Annual Fee - assessed for the privilege of holding the credit card. Debt Suspension/Cancellation Fee - assessed to protect consumer in event of a significant life event like the loss of a job. Balance Transfer Fees - assessed for balances transferred from another institution to this cardholder's account. Other - any fee not captured above. Examples include convenience check fees and foreign currency fees. Report whether the account is enrolled in a debt waiver/cancellation program. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the borrower is receiving benefits under a debt suspension/cancellation program. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Open/active - if the account has had any debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months.

46

54

smallmoney

47a 47b 47c 47d

55 56 57 58

smallmoney smallmoney smallmoney smallmoney

47e 47f

59 60

smallmoney smallmoney

47g

61

smallmoney

47h 48

62 63

smallmoney bit

DebtWaiverP rogramActive Flag

49

64

bit

MonthEndAct iveFlag

50a

65

bit

125

Month-end Account Status - Open Month-end Account Status Closed Cycle-end Account Status Active -end Account Status - Open Cycle-end Account Status Closed Account Closed at Request of Customer at Month-end Account Closed at Request of Customer at Cycle End Skip-apayment

MonthEndOp enFlag MonthEndClo sedRevoked Flag CycleEndActi veFlag

Open/inactive - if the account is open but has no debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. Closed or revoked - if the account is closed and has no further charging privileges. Include accounts in default, in credit management programs and expired accounts Open/active - if the account has had any debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months.

50b

66

bit

50c

67

bit

89a

68

bit

CycleEndOp enFlag CycleEndClo sedRevoked Flag MonthEndAc countCustom erClosedFlag

Open/inactive - if the account is open but has no debit, credit, or balance activity in the last twelve months. Closed or revoked - if the account is closed and has no further charging privileges. Include accounts in default, in credit management programs and expired accounts. Report whether the account was closed in the reporting month at the request of the borrower as of month end. The account may or may not have a balance. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the account was closed in the reporting month at the request of the borrower as of cycle end. The account may or may not have a balance. Y-Yes N-No Report whether the account holder opted for a promotional skip-apayment during the reporting month. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Report whether the account entered into any type of workout program during the current reporting month.

89b 89c

69 70

bit bit

51

71

bit

CycleEndAcc ountCustome rClosedFlag

90

72

bit

SkipaPayme ntFlag

52

73

bit

Credit Card Workout Program

WorkoutProg ramFlag

53

74

bit

126

Workout Program Type

WorkoutProg ramType

a. Y-Yes b. N-No For accounts in a workout program at month-end, categorize the type of program in one of the options below: a. External Program - a permanent external program, often administered by a Consumer Credit Counseling Service (CCCS). b. Internal Long-Term Program - an internal program where terms have been modified and the account holder is paying off outstanding balances over an extended period. Include all programs with enrollment durations in excess of 12 months. c. Internal Temporary Programs - an internal program where terms are temporarily modified, not to exceed 12 months, in recognition of short term hardship. d. Settlement Programs - an agreement where the lender will accept less than the full balance outstanding to satisfy and close the account. e. Other - any other workout arrangement. This field tracks the performance of borrowers in all workout plans. These plans include the external Consumer Credit Counseling Programs, as well as, internal long-term and temporary programs. Report performance as of the reporting date in one of the following categories: a. Active and Performing - the borrower is performing as scheduled under the terms of an executed workout program. b. Active and Non-Performing - the borrower is in a workout plan but has missed at least one program payment. c. Broken - the borrower has defaulted on the terms of an executed plan during the month. Use the bank's internal definition of broken. For any account for which the "Settlement" option has been selected under the Workout Program type, report the total amount of the outstanding balance forgiven in the current month. Report the date of the last account re-age performed by the collections department, or in relation to any performance-related delinquency. Report the date of the last re-age performed by any customer service

54

75

tinyint

Workout Program Performance Status

WorkOutProg ramPerforma nceStatus

55

76

tinyint

Settlement Portion Forgiven Collection Re-age Date Customer

SettlementPo rtionForgiven Amount CollectionRe ageDate CustomerSer

56

77

smallmoney

57

78

date

58

79

date

127

Service Reage Date Loan Charged-Off in the current month Charge-off Reason

viceReageDa te ChargeoffInC urrentMonthF lag

rep (for example, in response to an erroneous payment posting or other similar non-performance issue.) Report whether the account incurred any type of charge-off in the current reporting month. Do not include charge-offs related to fraud. a. Y-Yes b. N-No Identify the reason for charge-off and loss recognition on an account. a. Contractual - losses incurred as a result of borrower's inability to make full repayment under the contractual terms of the account. b. Bankruptcy - losses incurred as a result of borrower's bankruptcy proceedings. c. Deceased - losses incurred as a result of death of account holder. d. Other - any other reason. Do not include charge-offs related to fraud. Report the total amount of any principal write-downs (or principal reversals) on the account during the reporting month. Record all charges against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), using the FFIEC Call Report Instructions as guidance. Value will only be populated in month charged off. Report the total amount of any write-downs, fee waivers, or reversal of loan interest and fees on the account during the reporting month. Interest and fee reversals, waivers or write-downs can include those charged against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), or a separate valuation reserve, or reversed against current period income during the reporting period. Value will only be populated in month charged off. Report the dollar amount of any balance recovery from a previously charged-off account collected during the month. Report whether the account was frozen due to potential fraud or closed for cause at the conclusion of a fraud investigation in the current reporting month. a. Y-Yes

59

80

bit

ChargeOffRe asonCode

60

81

tinyint

Principal Charge-off Amount ­ Current Month Interest and Fees Chargeoff/Reversal Amount ­ Current Month

PrincipalChar geOffInCurre ntMonthAmo unt

61

82

money

InterestAndF eeChargeOffI nCurrentMont hAmount

62

83

money

Recovery Amount Fraud in the current month

RecoveryAm ount FraudFlag

63 64

84 85

money bit

128

Purchase Amount Cash Advance Amount Balance Transfer Amount Account Sold Flag

PurchaseVol ume CashAdvanc eVolume BalanceTran sferVolume

b. N-No Report the net purchase dollar volume during the current month's cycle Report the net cash advance dollar volume during the current month's cycle Report the balance transfer dollar volume during the current month's cycle. Includes the Convenience Check Amount (Field Reference #94). Identifies accounts that have been sold. Identifier should persist while the account is reported. a. Y - Yes b. N - No Populated by aggregator. The year and month in which the account was sold-off to a third party. Populated by aggregator. Flag indicating that whether the account was charged off either in the current month or in any previous month (0=No, 1=yes) Populated by aggregator. The year and month in which the account was charged-off Populated by aggregator. Report the total amount of any principal write-downs (or principal reversals) on the account. Related to Field Reference #61. Value will be carried forward in subsequent months after month charged off. Populated by aggregator. Report the total amount of any write-downs, fee waivers, or reversal of loan interest and fees on the account.

91 92

86 87

money money

93, 94

88

money

AccountSold Flag

95

89

bit

Account Sold Period

AccountSold Period

90

int

ChargeOff Flag

ChargeOffFla g

91

bit

ChargeOff Period Principal Charge-off Amount

ChargeOffPe riod PrincipalChar geOffAmount

92

int

93

money

Interest and Fees Chargeoff/Reversal Amount

InterestAndF eeChargeOff Amount

94

money

129

Gross Charge Off Amount

GrossCharge OffAmount

Related to Field Reference #62. Value will be carried forward in subsequent months after month charged off. Populated by aggregator. Total write-down (including both principal, interest and fees) on a charged-off account. Computed as the month ending balance (or month beginning balance if ending balance is zeroed out) of an account in the month of charge-off Populated by aggregator. Total outstanding balance for the account at the beginning of the current month's cycle. It would be same as the previous cycle's ending balance. Populated by aggregator. Total outstanding balance for the account at the beginning of the current month. It would be same as the previous month's ending balance. Populated by aggregator. Minimum payment due of the previous cycle. Populated by aggregator. Flag indicating if the account was over limit in the last 3 months. (0 = No, 1 = yes)

95

money

Cycle Beginning Balance

CycleBeginni ngBalance

96

money

Month Beginning Balance

MonthBeginni ngBalance

97

money

Minimum Payment Due Previously Over Limit Last 3 Months Flag

MinimumPay mentDue_Pr ev OverLimitLas t3MonthsFlag

98

money

99

bit

Payment Equal Total Payment Due Last 3 Months Flag YTD Fee Late Flag

PaymentEqT otalPayment DueLast3Mo nthsFlag YTDFeeLate Flag

Populated by aggregator. Flag indicating if the account made a payment equal to the minimum payment due in the last 3 months. (0 = No, 1 = yes) Populated by aggregator. Flag indicating if the account was assessed a late fee in this calendar year (up to the current month) Populated by aggregator.

100

bit

101

bit

YTD Fee

YTDFeeOverl

102

bit

130

Over limit Flag YTD Recovery Amount Last Active Period

imitFlag Flag indicating if the account was assessed an over limit fee in this calendar year (up to the current month) Populated by aggregator. Sum of recoveries made on a charged-off account in the calendar year (up to the current month) Populated by aggregator. The year and month in which an account was last active. This field is populated only for those issuers where Vendor is populating the active flag.

YTDRecover yAmount

103

money

LastActivePe riod

104

int

131

Portfolio Level
Data Element
BankId PeriodId Credit Card Type

Column Name
BankId (PK) PeriodId (PK) CreditCardTy pe (PK)

Description
Identifies the bank. Identifies the reporting period. Report each account in one of the following categories: a. General Purpose - can be used at a wide variety of merchants, including any who accept MasterCard, Visa, American Express or Discover credit cards. Include affinity, co-brand cards in this category, and student card if applicable. b. Private Label - also known as Proprietary Credit Cards, are tied to the retailer issuing the card and can only be used in that retailer's stores. Include oil & gas cards in this loan type, and student cards if applicable. c. Business Card - Include small business credit card accounts where the loan is underwritten with the sole proprietor or primary business owner as applicant. Report at the control account level or the individual pay level (not at the sub-account level). Include the amount of all outstanding credit card receivables, bank owned and securitized, to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount outstanding to individuals for business purposes. Include the amount of outstanding credit card receivables, bank owned only (not securitized, not serviced for others), to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from charges on General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount of extensions of credit to individuals for business purposes. For securitized accounts, the seller's or owner's interest should be included here. Include the amount of all outstanding credit card receivables, bank

Field Ref.
Cross reference to definitions document 1 2 3

Field Seq.

Data Type
int int tinyint

End of Period Managed Receivables

MonthEndMa nagedReceiv ables

65

4

money

End of Period Book Receivables

MonthEndBo okReceivable s

66

5

money

Reporting

DailyAverage

67

6

money

132

Period Daily Average Managed Receivables Securitized Receivables

ManagedRec eivables

SecuritizedR eceivables

ALLL Managed Balance ALLL Booked Balance Projected Managed Losses Projected Booked Losses Managed Gross Charge-offs for the current month Booked Gross Charge-offs for the current month Managed Recoveries

ALLLManage dBalance ALLLBooked Balance ProjectedMa nagedLosses ProjectedBan kOwnedLoss es ManagedGro ssChargeOffs

owned and securitized, to individuals for household, family and other personal expenditures arising from General Purpose or Private Label Credit Cards. For Business Cards, this would be the amount outstanding to individuals for business purposes. Report the outstanding balance of receivables that have been transferred to a trust for purposes of issuing credit card backed securities, less the bank's ownership or seller's interest. The bank's ownership or seller's interest is generally equal to the total principal amount of assets included in the securitization structure, less the principal amount of those assets attributable to investors, i.e., in the form of securities issued to investors. The seller's interest would not include any interest that is a form of recourse or other sellerprovided credit enhancement. Amount of the ALLL assigned to the managed credit card portfolio at the end of the month; include reserves maintained for securitized assets, if any. Amount of the ALLL assigned to the bank-owned credit card portfolio at the end of the month Report the estimated dollar amount of losses for the next 12 months (rolling basis each reporting month) for the entire managed portfolio. Report the estimated dollar amount of losses for the next 12 months (rolling basis each reporting month) for the bank-owned portfolio only. For securitized accounts, include estimated losses associated with the seller's interest. Report the dollar amount of gross charge-offs recognized in the reporting month for the entire managed portfolio. Include any amounts (interest and fees) reversed against income.

98

7

money

68

8

money

69

9

money

70

10

money

71

11

money

72

12

money

OnBalanceS heetGrossCh argeOffs ManagedRec overies

Report the dollar amount of gross charge-offs recognized in reporting month for bank-owned receivables. Include any amounts (interest and fees) reversed against income. Report amounts recovered on credit card loans previously chargedoff for the entire managed portfolio.

73

13

money

96

14

money

133

Booked Recoveries Interest and Fees Chargeoff/Reversal Amount

BookedReco veries InterestAndF eeChargeOff Amount

Interest Income

InterestIncom e

Fee Income

TotalFeeInco me

Fee Income Late Fee Income Fee Income Over Limit Fee Income Fee Income Balance Transfer Fee Fee Income Convenience Check Fee Fee Income Cash Advance Fee Fee Income NSF Fee Fee Income -

LateFeeInco me OverLimitFee Income BalanceTran sferFeeIncom e Convenience CheckFeeInc ome CashAdvanc eFeeIncome NSFFeeInco me OtherFeeInco

All recoveries for prior charge-offs on bank-owned receivables, recognized through the ALLL, in the current reporting month. Report the total amount of any write-downs, fee waivers or reversal of loan interest and fees on the credit card receivables during the reporting month. Interest and fee reversals, waivers or write-downs can include those charged against the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL), or a separate valuation reserve, or reversed against current period income during the reporting period. Report total interest accrued on credit card receivables for the month, less any interest waived or reversed as uncollectible or any amount added to a contra-asset account for uncollectible interest that the bank maintains and reports separately from the ALLL. Do not include fee income in this category. Report total fees assessed on credit card accounts during the month, less any fee waived or reversed as uncollectible or any amount added to a contra-asset account for uncollectible fees that the bank maintains and reports separately from the ALLL. Interchange, annual and debt suspension/cancellation fees should not be reported here Late Fees - fee assessed for late or nonpayment on account.

74 97

15 16

money money

75

17

money

76

18

money

76a

19

money

Over Limit Fees - fee assessed for account going over established credit limit. Balance Transfer Fees - fee assessed for transferring balances from another source outside the bank, such as another financial institution's credit card to a credit card at this bank. Convenience Check Fees - fee assessed for use of checks provided to access available credit on the account. Cash Advance Fees - fee assessed for cash advances on the account.

76b

20

money

76c

21

money

76d

22

money

76e

23

money

NSF Fees - fee assessed for payments returned unpaid. Other Fee Income - other fees assessed on an account such as foreign

76f 76g

24 25

money money

134

Other Fee Income Interest Expense Credit Card Net Interest Margin Total NonInterest Income

me InterestExpe nse CreditCardNe tInterestMargi n TotalNonInter estIncome

exchange conversion fees, etc. Total interest expense accrued for the month to fund credit card receivables. Interest income plus fee income reported above minus interest expense Report non-interest income for the following categories: a. Interchange Income - interchange fees received from the card associations. b. All Other Non-Interest Income - any other income, including annual fees, debt suspension/cancellation product fees, etc., associated with card operations. Report non-interest income for the following categories: a. Interchange Income - interchange fees received from the card associations. 77 26 money

78

27

money

79

28

money

Interchange Income

InterchangeIn come

79a

29

money

All Other Non-Interest Income

OtherNonInte restIncome

Report non-interest income for the following categories: b. All Other Non-Interest Income - any other income, including annual fees, debt suspension/cancellation product fees, etc., associated with card operations. Total Non Interest Expense

79b

30

money

Total NonInterest Expense Total NonInterest Expense Interchange Expense Total NonInterest Expense Marketing/Ac

TotalNonInter estExpense InterchangeE xpense

80

31

money

Interchange Expense - interchange fees paid to the card associations.

80a

32

money

MarketingAcq uisitionCardP rocessingExp ense

Marketing/Acquisition and Card Processing - report cost incurred to acquire advertise, or promote and process credit cards.

80b

33

money

135

quisition and Card Processing Expense Total NonInterest Expense Rewards/Reb ates Expense Total NonInterest Expense Collections Expense Total NonInterest Expense Fraud Expense Total NonInterest Expense - All Other Expenses Loan Loss Provision Expense Loan Loss Provision Expense Loan Loss Provision Expense Extraordinary Items Taxes

RewardsExp ense

Rewards/Rebates - expenses associated with reward and rebate programs for credit cards.

80c

34

money

CollectionsEx pense

Collections - report cost incurred to collect problem credits.

80d

35

money

FraudExpens e

Fraud - losses incurred as a result of fraudulent activity

80e

36

money

OtherNonInte restExpense

LoanLossPro visionExpens e ProvisionExp enseTaken ProvisionExp enseBuild ExtraOrdinar yItems Taxes

All Other Expenses - report all other operating and other expenses associated with card operations. This includes servicing, cardholder billing, processing interchange, processing payments, card issuing, authorizations, card administration and outside services/outsourcing expenses, etc. Loan Provision Expense

80f

37

money

81

38

money

Provision Expense - provision expense taken during the month. 81a Provision Build - additional provision built up during the month. Provision build equals: provision expense + recoveries - charge-offs against the ALLL. Report extraordinary items, which are categorized as material and infrequent, such as gains and/or losses on the sale of credit card portfolios. Tax expense applicable to credit card income. 81b

39

money

40

money

84

41

money

85

42

money

136

Net Income

NetIncome

Total revenues less total expenses.

86

43

money

137

Domestic Schedule E - Managed Profit, Loss And All Statement
Report Details
Bank Name: As of Date: Mar-11

ATTACHMENT 6

ID

Managed Profit, Loss And All Statement Element Name
1 End of Period Managed Receivables(EMR) 2 End of Period Ending Book Receivables 3 Reporting Daily Average Managed Receivables(AMR) 4 Securitized Receivables 5 ALLL Managed Balance 6 ALLL Booked Balance 7 Projected Managed Losses 8 Projected Booked Losses 9 Managed Gross Charge-offs 10 Booked Gross Charge-offs 11 Managed Recoveries 12 Booked Recoveries 13 Interest and Fees Charge-off/Reversal Amount 14 Interest Income 15 Fee Income 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 Late Fee Over Limit Fee Balance Transfer Fees Convenience Check Fees Cash Advance Fees NSF Fees Other Fee Income

General Purpose Card Private Label Card $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR

Business Card $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR

23 Interest Expense 24 Credit Card Net Interest Margin 25 Total Non-Interest Income 26 27 29 30 31 32 33 Interchange Income All Other Non-Interest Income Interchange Expense Marketing/Acquisition and Card Processing Rewards/Rebates Collections Fraud

28 Total Non-Interest Expense

Version Date: May 05, 2011

ScheduleE_PAndLStatement_

5.xls - Domestic Schedule E

Page 138

34 36 37

All Other Non-Interest Expense Provision Expense Provision Build

35 Loan Loss Provision

38 Extraordinary Items 39 Taxes 40 Net Income

Version Date: May 05, 2011

ScheduleE_PAndLStatement_201103_

505.xls - Domestic Schedule E

Page 139

Domestic Schedule E - Managed Profit, Loss And All Statement
Report Details
Bank Name: As of Date: Mar-11

ID

Managed Profit, Loss And All Statement Element Name
1 End of Period Managed Receivables(EMR) 2 End of Period Ending Book Receivables 3 Reporting Daily Average Managed Receivables(AMR) 4 Securitized Receivables 5 ALLL Managed Balance 6 ALLL Booked Balance 7 Projected Managed Losses 8 Projected Booked Losses 9 Managed Gross Charge-offs 10 Booked Gross Charge-offs 11 Managed Recoveries 12 Booked Recoveries 13 Interest and Fees Charge-off/Reversal Amount 14 Interest Income 15 Fee Income 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 Late Fee Over Limit Fee Balance Transfer Fees Convenience Check Fees Cash Advance Fees NSF Fees Other Fee Income

General Purpose Card Private Label Card $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR

Business Card $ Outstanding Balance % of AMR

23 Interest Expense 24 Credit Card Net Interest Margin 25 Total Non-Interest Income 26 27 29 30 31 32 33 Interchange Income All Other Non-Interest Income Interchange Expense Marketing/Acquisition and Card Processing Rewards/Rebates Collections Fraud

28 Total Non-Interest Expense

Version Date: May 05, 2011

ScheduleE_PAndLStatement_201103

05.xls - Domestic Schedule E

Page 138

34 36 37

All Other Non-Interest Expense Provision Expense Provision Build

35 Loan Loss Provision

38 Extraordinary Items 39 Taxes 40 Net Income

Version Date: May 05, 2011

ScheduleE_PAndLStatement_201103

10505.xls - Domestic Schedule E

Page 139

151

152

153

154

155

156

157

158

159

160

161

162

163

164

165

166

167

168

ATTACHMENT 9 ­ PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY TABLE Page 1 of 2

PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE TASK 1: Data Collection/ Transmission Work with CFPB specified reporting banks to address changes to data elements or definitions Data validation by the contractor shall be completed before validation reports are submitted to the CFPB. All data validations and resubmissions shall be completed before the generation of standard reports or data extracts.

PERFORMANCE STANDARD Banks able to submit data reflective of changes to data elements or definitions Initial verification process shall be completed within three (3) business days after the Reporting Date All data validation, resubmission, etc. completed in order to have the data ready for the generation of standard reports or data extracts within ten (10) business days after the Reporting Date Ensure access 24X7

ACCEPTABLE QUALITY LEVEL (AQL) Data submission process incorporates changes to data elements, schedules or definitions 100% of the time On time, no deviation.

METHOD OF SURVEILLANCE Periodic Observation and/or Inspection.

PERFORMANCE DISINCENTIVE 3% of the monthly total task invoice amount

TASK 2: Data Validation

Monthly Random Observation and/or Inspection

$250 for each day not delivered

On time, no deviation.

Monthly Random Observation and/or Inspection

5% per day of the monthly total task invoice amount

TASK 3: Secure Data Transmission, Storage and Technology Infrastructure TASK 8: Technical and Analytical Support

Systems maintained under the terms of the contract shall be available at least 99 percent of the time aside from scheduled maintenance periods. Technical and Analytical phone support shall be available to CFPB users.

System is available >= 99% of the time except for maintenance

Monthly Random Observation and/or Inspection

0.5% per hour that the system is not available

Phone support available Monday through Friday, 8 am -5pm EST

99% support availability per week

Customer service feedback from CFPB end users.

$250 for every percent below AQL

1

ATTACHMENT 9 ­ PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY TABLE Page 2 of 2
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE TASK 10: General Management, Resources, Decision Making A log of all data collection or data quality issues with the banks shall be maintained and provided to the CFPB. Contractor shall participate in weekly status meetings with the CFPB. Weekly written status reports shall be provided PERFORMANCE STANDARD On a weekly basis provide an updated log of issues (open and closed) which have arisen with each bank. Participation in a weekly status call. ACCEPTABLE QUALITY LEVEL (AQL) On time, no deviation. METHOD OF SURVEILLANCE Email date stamp of written issue log PERFORMANCE DISINCENTIVE 3% of the monthly total task invoice amount

No deviation unless call is cancelled by the CFPB.

Weekly observation and/or Inspection

3% of the monthly total task invoice amount

Provide a weekly report on project activities, timelines, status and issues that may arise during weekly meetings Delivery of weekly status reports detailing discussions and meetings with banks provided

On time, no deviation.

Email date stamp of written issue log; Weekly observation and/or Inspection Email date stamp of written status reports; Weekly observation and/or Inspection

3% of the monthly total task invoice amount

Reports on meetings with participating banks shall be provided

No deviation

3% of the monthly total task invoice amount

The Contractor shall not be assessed a disincentive for government caused, bank caused or otherwise excusable delays of which the contractor has no control.

2

10

ATTACHMENT 11 PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE (PPQ) See Attached Microsoft Word File 3 pages

