<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSECHQ1-09-Q-9004-061009Final-6-11-09.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSECHQ1-09-Q-9004-061009Final-6-11-09.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>Dear Quoter, This Request for Quote (RFQ) SECHQ1-09-Q-9004, is provided for Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) Services for both On-Site and Off-Site processing, as outlined in the enclosed Statement of Work provided herein. The resulting contract will be combination of fixed priced and labor hour CLINs with a 12 month base period with four (4) one-year options. Questions concerning this solicitation must be received by June 17, 2009, 12 Noon EST to Vance Cathell, cathellv@sec.gov. All responses to questions will be answered by a solicitation amendment through the Fedbizopps website. Your Technical and Price Quote must be received by June 29, 2009, 5PM EST and shall be emailed to Vance Cathell, Contract Specialist, cathellv@sec.gov. INFORMATION ABOUT THE SOLICITATION AND EVALUATION PROCESS 1. Submit a technical quote to include Technical Capability and Past Performance. Submit a processed data sample as a part of the technical evaluation. The data sample will be provided to companies on CD after quotes are received and a returned processed data sample will be due back to the SEC within 48 hours for evaluation purposes. 2. Submit a price quote in accordance with the Scope of Work and Section B of this solicitation. 3. The evaluation is anticipated to occur approximately July 1-July 13, 2009 with possible award on or before July 22, 2009. 4. Award will be made to the quoter whose quote represents the best value to the SEC, considering price and other factors. The SEC may award to other than the lowest priced quote or other than the highest technically rated quote. The technical evaluation factors are: Technical Capability and Past Performance. Technical Capability is more important than Past Performance. When combined, non-price factors are more important than price. See Section L and M for specific details. 5. CACI Inc and Cricket Legal Technologies are the incumbent contractors. 6. If you have any questions, please email them to Vance Cathell cathellv@sec.gov.

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3.
AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF 30 6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

63000-09-2180
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

4. ORDER NUMBER

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL: 9. ISSUED BY
a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

6/11/2009
8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME:

Vance Cathell
CODE

e-mail: Cathellv@sec.gov
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS [_x_]UNRESTRICTED [ ] SET ASIDE: _% FOR [_] SMALL BUSINESS [__] SMALL DISAV. BUS. [ ] S(A) 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED [ ] SEE SCHEDULE

06/29/2009 5:00 EST
12. DISCOUNT TERMS

US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS 6432 GENERAL GREEN WAY MAIL STOP 0-20 ALEXANDRIA, VA 22312-2413
15. DELIVER TO CODE

[___] 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700). 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION [_X_]RFQ [___[ IFB [___] RFP CODE

NAICS: 518210 SIZE STANDARD: $23.0
16. ADMINISTERED BY

OITOPC

SECHQ

US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 6432 GENERAL GREEN WAY
ATTN RAY THORPE ALEXANDRIA VA 22312
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS 6432 GENERAL GREEN WAY
ATTN RAY THORPE ALEXANDRIA VA 22312

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED. [__] SEE ADDENDUM

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

See attachments for detailed information regarding this solicitation to include Sections A-M. For further information, please contact Vance Cathell at 202-551-8385. Period of Performance: 07/25/2009 to 07/24/2010 00001 Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) services onsite and offsite processing Product/Service Code: D307 Product/Service Description: AUTOMATED INFO SYS DESIGN & INTEGRATION SEE SECTION B FOR PRICING
26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

1

LO

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA ARE ARE NOT ATTACHED. SEE ONLINE CLAUSES AT http://www.acquisition.gov/far/current/html/52_212_213.html. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4, FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA ARE ARE NOT ATTACHED. SEE ONLINE CLAUSES AT http://www.acquisition.gov/far/current/html/52_212_213.html.
28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN ____ 29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE ______________ OFFER [X] DATED _________, YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN. 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR 31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

31c. DATE SIGNED

Linda Baier
32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN [__] RECEIVED [__] INSPECTED [__] ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED 33. SHIP NUMBER 34. VOUCHER NUMBER 35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

PARTIAL 36. PAYMENT [__] COMPLETE

FINAL 37. CHECK NUMBER [__] PARTIAL [__] FINAL

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVT. REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)
41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41c. DATE

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location)

42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

SEE REVERSE FOR OMB CONTROL NUMBER AND PAPERWORK BURDEN STATEMENT

STANDARD FORM 1449 (10-95)
Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR)

2 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION B ­ SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES / COSTS Note quantities will be measured by the size of the compressed input file provided by the SEC. Base Year Labor Hour CLIN (Task 1) CLIN 0001 Description Program Management (Task 1) Priced on a Labor Hour Basis. Estimated Hours Per Month $ Labor Hour $ Estimated Cost

FFP CLIN (Tasks 2, 3, and 4) CLIN Description Unit Unit Price Total Price

0002A

0002B

0002C

0002D

0002E

0003

0004

Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed price per Monthly $ month basis when quantities are between 1 ­ 50 GB Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price per GB GB $ basis when quantities are between 51 ­ 100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with TIFF image creation. (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price GB $ per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with metadata and text extraction, without TIFF image creation GB $ (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with metadata and text extraction, but without TIFF image GB $ creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing at Contractor facility (Task 3) Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis GB $ when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month Electronic Endorsement (Task 4). Priced Page $ on a fixed price per page

$

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

3 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Option Year 1 Labor Hour CLIN (Task 1) CLIN 0101 Description Program Management (Task 1) Priced on a Labor Hour Basis. Estimated Hours Per Month $ Labor Hour $ Estimated Cost

FFP CLIN (Tasks 2, 3, and 4) CLIN Description Unit Unit Price Total Price

0102A

0102B

0102C

0102D

0102E

0103

0104

Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed price per Monthly $ month basis when quantities are between 1 ­ 50 GB Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price per GB GB $ basis when quantities are between 51 ­ 100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with TIFF image creation. (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price GB $ per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with metadata and text extraction, without TIFF image creation GB $ (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with metadata and text extraction, but without TIFF image GB $ creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing at Contractor facility (Task 3) Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis GB $ when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month Electronic Endorsement (Task 4). Priced Page $ on a fixed price per page

$

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

4 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Option Year 2 Labor Hour CLIN (Task 1) CLIN 0201 Description Program management (Task 1) Priced on a Labor Hour Basis. Estimated Hours Labor Per Month Hour $ $ Estimated Cost

FFP CLIN (Tasks 2, 3, and 4) CLIN Description Unit Unit Price Total Price

0202A

0202B

0202C

0202D

0202E

0203

0204

Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed price per Monthly $ month basis when quantities are between 1 ­ 50 GB Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price per GB GB $ basis when quantities are between 51 ­ 100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with TIFF image creation. (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price GB $ per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with metadata and text extraction, without TIFF image creation GB $ (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with metadata and text extraction, but without TIFF image GB $ creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing at Contractor facility (Task 3) Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis GB $ when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month Electronic Endorsement (Task 4). Priced Page $ on a fixed price per page

$

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

5 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Option Year 3 Labor Hour CLIN (Task 1) CLIN 0301 Description Program Management (Task 1) Priced on a Labor Hour Basis. Estimated Hours Labor Per Month Hour $ $ Estimated Cost

FFP CLIN (Tasks 2, 3, and 4) CLIN Description Unit Unit Price Total Price

0302A

0302B

0302C

0302D

0302E

0303

0304

Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed price per Monthly $ month basis when quantities are between 1 ­ 50 GB Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price per GB GB $ basis when quantities are between 51 ­ 100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with TIFF image creation. (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price GB $ per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with metadata and text extraction, without TIFF image creation GB $ (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with metadata and text extraction, but without TIFF image GB $ creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing at Contractor facility (Task 3) Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis GB $ when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month Electronic Endorsement (Task 4). Priced Page $ on a fixed price per page

$

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

6 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Option Year 4 Labor Hour CLIN (Task 1) CLIN 0401 Description Program Management (Task 1) Priced on a Labor Hour Basis. Estimated Hours Labor Per Month Hour $ $ Estimated Cost

FFP CLIN (Tasks 2, 3, and 4) CLIN Description Unit Unit Price Total Price

0402A

0402B

0402C

0402D

0402E

0403

0404

Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed price per Monthly $ month basis when quantities are between 1 ­ 50 GB Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with TIFF image creation (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price per GB GB $ basis when quantities are between 51 ­ 100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with TIFF image creation. (Task 2) Priced on a fixed price GB $ per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at SEC facility with metadata and text extraction, without TIFF image creation GB $ (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month. Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) at Contractor facility with metadata and text extraction, but without TIFF image GB $ creation (Task 2). Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis when quantities are between 1-400 GB per month Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing at Contractor facility (Task 3) Priced on a fixed priced per GB basis GB $ when quantities are between 1-100 GB per month Electronic Endorsement (Task 4). Priced Page $ on a fixed price per page

$

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

$TBD

7 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION C ­ DESCRIPTION / SPECIFICATION / STATEMENT OF WORK C.1 PURPOSE

The purpose of this procurement is to support the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) effort to electronically process and store electronic files and data that are part of its investigations, inspections, examinations and litigation. C.2 BACKGROUND

The SEC is an independent Federal agency established pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is headed by a bipartisan five-member commission consisting of the chairman and four commissioners who are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The SEC is organized into four main divisions (i.e., Corporation Finance, Enforcement, Investment Management, and Trading and Markets) and several offices. The SEC's Divisions of Corporation Finance, Investment Management, and Trading & Markets, and the Office of Compliance Investigations and Examinations regulate the securities industry. These organizations collect information during inspections and examinations, and receive filings and other information from regulated entities. For investigation, cross-referencing, reuse, information sharing, and other analysis, the SEC has created a document repository. Some of the information comes in paper format, which must be imaged and loaded into SEC systems. Other information arrives through electronic media, and may need to be converted or processed before it is loaded into the repository. The Division of Enforcement was created in August 1972 to consolidate enforcement activities that previously had been handled by the various operating divisions at the Commission's headquarters in Washington. The SEC's Division of Enforcement (ENF) staff has the primary responsibility to enforce Federal securities laws. They conduct investigations into possible violations of the Federal securities laws, and prosecute the Commission's civil suits in the Federal courts as well as its administrative proceedings. The ENF has about 1,200 employees, with about 450 located in the Washington DC area and 750 distributed nationwide among the SEC's 11 Regional Offices. ENF staff investigates potential violations of Federal securities laws. As necessary, ENF staff litigates cases that are not settled in the course of an investigation. About 900 cases are initiated each year, and each case generates a file of various kinds of associated records. ENF obtains leads of possible violations of the securities laws from many sources, including its own surveillance activities, other Divisions of the SEC, the self-regulatory organizations and other securities industry sources, press reports, and investor complaints. Paper and electronic documents received by ENF are considered evidentiary material, some documents are used in litigation, and Federal rules of civil procedure apply to the way the documents are handled and processed. ENF cases may remain active for more than 10 years. C.2.1 Division of Enforcement Process

The ENF investigation and litigation support work flow process is depicted in the diagram below. In response to subpoenas, ENF receives paper materials and electronic submissions in various forms, including CD's, emails and attachments. The specific ENF processes to be addressed in this task order are the three boxes labeled "Metadata and Text Extraction", "OCR of TIFF Images" and "Create TIFF Images." A separate document imaging contractor provides the "Imaging Services" in the "Hardcopy Evidence" line. Other separate contracts provide "Data Copy" and "Data Load" services, and perform independent quality control of the entire process. In addition, the contractor shall address the linkages and interfaces with other current and proposed electronic document processes shown on the flow diagram.

8 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

ENF currently uses "Concordance" litigation support software (from LexisNexis) to access the database. The database is maintained on multiple litigation support servers at the SEC's Washington, DC office and at each Regional office. Scanned documents are captured and Optical Character Recognition (OCR) converted. C.2.2 Current Information Technology Environment

The SEC has primary and alternate data centers in the Washington, DC Metro area. The servers and storage in the primary data center are replicated at the alternate site. For Concordance there are twelve (12) servers connected to over 80 TBs of storage capacity on EMC devices. Approximately 60 TBs of storage are utilized currently, and electronic documents consume an additional 2 TB to 4 TB each month. 10-20% of the electronic data received by the SEC is processed through Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) to extract text and metadata, to create TIFF images, to endorse the images with Bates numbers, and to create files loadable into Concordance. The SEC uses two Cricket Enterprise servers and thirteen (13) Cricket boxes from Cricket Legal Technologies for EDD processing. Over 800GB of data have been produced from Cricket at the SEC in the past six months. In addition, the SEC has sent out over 500 GB of data to outside service providers for EDD processing and Optical Character Recognition (OCR) processing of TIFF images over the same time period. The volume of EDD and OCR processing that the SEC may need to have done exceeds the capacity of the SEC's current contracts and systems. There are approximately 300 Concordance users at the SEC Headquarters. Additionally, there are approximately 500 Concordance users in eleven SEC Regional Offices nationwide. Each Regional Office has a litigation support server running Concordance. Regional Storage Area Networks provide 5-10 TB of storage capacity for each Regional litigation support server. Data copiers and database loaders working on-site at SEC Headquarters have 45 Dell GX-260/GX-270 and Optiplex 755 workstations to use. An independent quality control group uses 20 Dell GX-260/GX270 and Optiplex 755 workstations for their work. The electronic productions group has a 4 TB local RAID array for collecting, manipulating, and temporarily storing SEC productions. C.3 SCOPE

In support primarily of the SEC's Enforcement Division, the scope of this contract is to provide data/database conversion; litigation support database creation; specialized data extraction involving the
9 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

programming of extraction routines; Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) and analysis; and metadata and text extraction. The contractor shall support this effort at the Government's site and their own depending on the volume of the work load, cost, and other factors. The contractor shall travel to the SEC regional offices in support of Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) if required to support an SEC investigation or examination. The SEC has an increasing workload of requests for electronic documents to be processed as well as an increasing volume of electronic files produced from IT Forensics processes. Several large cases require support where producing the documents in paper form is not feasible. The contractor shall process electronic files and data provided by the SEC from a variety of sources and in a wide variety of formats. The term "document" includes, but is not limited to, any written, printed, or typed matter including, but not limited to, all drafts and copies bearing notations or marks not found in the original letters and correspondence, interoffice communications, slips, tickets, records, worksheets, financial records, accounting documents, bookkeeping documents, memoranda, reports, manuals, telephone logs, telegrams, facsimiles, messages of any type, telephone information messages, voice mails, tape recordings, notices, instructions, minutes, summaries, notes of meetings, file folder markings, and any other organizational indicia, purchase orders, information recorded by photographic process, including microfilm and microfiche, computer printouts, spreadsheets, and other information filed or stored in computers on magnetic or optical media, on back-up tapes or recordings, or otherwise, which can be retrieved, obtained, manipulated, or translated. The contractor shall work with other SEC contractors who are providing paper document imaging, electronic processing, data loading, computer forensics, independent quality control, and project management support to the SEC. The SEC has separate contract vehicles for imaging paper documents and loading Concordance databases onto SEC systems. The SEC receives electronic data in a variety of formats from a variety of sources, including contractors. The contractor for this task order may receive electronic data for further processing from any of these sources. To assist in verifying the quality and consistency of Concordance databases used by the SEC staff, the SEC has an independent contract for quality control, including checking Concordance databases against the original electronic media. For overall program management, the contractor shall collect performance measurement data about its processes and products. C.4 TASKS

The contractor shall provide the support described in the following integrated functional task areas. The contractor shall use the Box, Document, and Media Tracking (BDMT) system provided by the SEC, as available, to track and to monitor the status of requests. The contractor shall provide and use its own management processes and tools to collect performance data, track status, and produce reports when the information required is not available in BDMT or a future tracking system that replaces BDMT. The SEC has a Microsoft Access database that is used to track EDD tasks performed on-site at SEC Headquarters. The SEC will make a copy of this database available to the contractor. The fields in this database are listed in Section J, Attachment 2 Onsite EDD Tracking DB Fields. Travel is not anticipated for this contract. All work will be performed at the contractor's facility and/or SEC Operations Center, Alexandria VA. The following tasks shall be performed by the contractor: ˇ Task 1 Program Management Support ˇ Task 2 Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) Processing ˇ Task 3 Optical Character Recognition (OCR) Processing ˇ Task 4 Electronic Endorsement C.4.1 Task 1 - Program Management Support

The contractor shall provide all necessary personnel, software, hardware, equipment, administrative, financial, and managerial resources necessary for the support of this requirement. The contractor shall use proven methodologies that assure all activities are identified, documented, and tracked so that the task order will continuously be evaluated and monitored for timely and quality service. Should the contractor encounter any technical, financial, personnel, or general managerial problems throughout the period of performance, the contractor shall immediately contact the COTR. The contractor shall deliver the
10 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

following management activities and reports. C.4.1.1 Program Management Plan (PMP)

The contractor shall develop and deliver a Draft and Final PMP (See Section F.3, Deliverables 01 and 02) that is based on the contractor's proposed solution. The contractor shall provide PMP Updates (See Section F.3, Deliverable 03) as changes occur, but at least annually. At a minimum this PMP shall include: a. All technical activities (including documentation development) identified and organized at a level of detail sufficient for the contractor to manage work that will be received daily. b. All standards followed in support of these requirements. c. Methods to be used to identify trends and the need for corrective action. d. An estimate of the duration and level of effort (by labor category) for all types of tasktasks or requests. e. A matrix of all personnel assigned to the program and total aggregate level of effort for all tasks, including position, office location, and security background check status. f. Budget information (planned versus actual, including incurred but not billed, by task) using cost accounting. g. Task dependencies and interrelationships, including exception handling and reprocessing. h. Program organization. i. Contractor organizational structure. j. Roles and responsibilities of contractor staff. k. Communications plan addressing all stakeholders. l. Process management and controls. m. Performance and quality processes and controls. n. Any unique hardware and software utilized by the contractor. o. Subcontracting plan, including scope and terms of all active subcontracts. p. Security plan for physical and computer security of off-site work. C.4.1.2 Monthly Status Reports

The contractor shall provide a Monthly Status Report (MSR) (See Section F.3, Deliverable 04) that briefly summarizes, by task area, the management, and technical progress to date, as well as provides the information indicated below by task area. The contractor shall provide at a minimum the following information by either billing cycle or calendar month depending on the Government's needs: a. Status of all activities/requirements, including staffing and security background check status b. Progress against milestones and estimated cost c. A matrix of all deliverables, and planned vs. actual delivery dates. This may be produced in part by reports from the BDMT system. d. Name, rate, and total billed hours by individual e. Travel costs (if any) f. ODC costs (if any) g. Total cost h. Hours expended by labor category i. Labor overhead j. Subcontractor labor k. Other subcontractor costs l. Planned vs. actual hours m. Planned vs. actual dollars n. Deviations from planned expenditures o. Summary of productivity results (See Section C.4.1.3 below) to include all items processed The contractor shall reconcile the MSR with each invoice such that they can be matched month by month.
11 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

C.4.1.3

Productivity Reports

The contractor shall prepare weekly and monthly productivity reports as outlined in this section. Montly productivity reports shall be a summarized roll-up of the weekly reports. At the request of the Government, the contractor shall provide the Government with Productivity Reports (See Section F.3, Deliverables 05 and 06) that include the following: number of each type of media received (e.g., CD, DVD, disk drive, tape); number of each type of media processed through conversion, EDD and OCR; number of each type of file processed (e.g., PDF, TIFF, PST, native files); and total size in Megabytes (MB) received and produced by type of media and type of file. The contractor may use the Box, Document, and Media Tracking (BDMT) system provided by the SEC, as available, to produce all or part for the reports.
The contractor shall prepare and deliver weekly reports in a spreadsheet format that show Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) and Optical Character Recognition (OCR) tasktasks separately. The contractor shall prepare and deliver weekly reports that answer the following questions: ˇ What is in the pipeline to be processed? ˇ What was delivered since the last report? ˇ What is delayed, and why is it delayed? ˇ What is the actual delivery time compared to the service level agreements (by tasktask size)? C.4.1.4 Transition Plan

The contractor shall provide an incoming transition plan and an outgoing transition plan as described below. a. Incoming Transition Plan: The contractor shall prepare and deliver an Incoming Transition Plan (See Section F.3, Deliverable 07) recommending the steps necessary to migrate from the existing Government and contractor operations. The plan shall be defined in detail by specific task, deliverable, and milestone to ensure an orderly and complete transition. At a minimum the plan shall include the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Methodologies for transitioning and ensuring a seamless transition An orientation phase and program to introduce Government personnel, programs, and users to the contractor's team, tools, methodologies, and business processes Transition of requirements in the contract Change management issues to include methods of communicating to stakeholders Resource requirements Methods for delivering required metrics and statistics Roles and responsibilities of Government and contractor personnel, including contractor points of contact for making requests and for checking tasktask status Identification of risks and risk mitigation practices Schedule for hardware installation Schedule for starting services Schedule for pick up and delivery of electronic media

The contractor shall perform the transition activities based on the Government-approved Incoming Transition Plan. b. Outgoing Transition Plan (See Section F.3, Deliverable 08): The contractor shall provide an Outgoing Transition Plan for transitioning work from this task order to a follow-on effort. In accordance with the approved plan, the contractor shall assist the Government in planning and implementing a complete transition from the existing task order to the follow-on support provider. The contractor shall formally coordinate with the Government and incoming contractor staff and management; deliver copies of existing policies and procedures; deliver required metrics and
12 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

statistics, and migrate databases (if required). The contractor shall ensure that this document is current with all changes that occurred throughout the life of the task order. C.4.1.5 Project Kickoff Meeting

The contractor shall schedule and coordinate a Project Kick-Off Meeting (See Section F.3, Deliverable 09) at the Government's site. At a minimum, the attendees shall include key contractor personnel, key Government personnel, and the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR). At a minimum the contractor shall discuss the following: a. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. Schedule Performance metrics Security requirements Government-furnished information Reporting Requirements (e.g., Monthly Status report and productivity reports) Points of Contact Roles and responsibilities Contract transitioning process and timeframes Prioritization of contractor activities Quality surveillance Initial deliverables Invoicing procedures Task 2 ­ Electronic Document Discovery (EDD) Processing

C.4.2

The contractor shall perform EDD processing in accordance with the Federal Rules of Evidence and existing case law and consistent with ISO standards 17025, 9001, 4390, and 15489. The SEC will use the Independent Quality Control Checklist in Attachment 3 to inspect the quality of the contractor's deliverables. The contractor shall perform the following EDD processing functions at their site using contractor-supplied software as appropriate. During FY 2009 through FY 2010 the SEC estimates EDD processing requirements as the following average quantities per month: Processing Type Native files, E-mail Messages and Attachments with TIFF images Text extraction from native files, E-mail Messages and Attachments without TIFF images In support of this task the contractor shall perform the following: a. Perform EDD on electronic storage media provided by the SEC. The media may be original or a copy. b. Deliver EDD data in a Concordance 9 database format. c. Deliver EDD data in an Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDM) eXtensible Markup Language (XML) format, when requested. d. Deliver a Concordance Image 4.5 (Opticon) image cross-reference file when Tagged Image File format (TIFF) images are delivered from EDD. e. Deliver the original metadata values without modifying the original document to include system and document metadata. f. Identify any unprocessable files in a log file with the reason why the file could not be processed; such as, unknown file type, or password protected. g. Determine the type of a file from its file signature. h. Identify documents with tracked changes by placing a "Y" value in the Tracked Chgs field
13 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Quantity (GBs) 390

50

i.

j.

k. l. m. n. o. p. q. r. s.

Identify documents with hidden or white text in rows and columns of an Excel spreadsheet by placing a "Y" value in the HIDDENTEXT field. Populating an additional field with the hidden or white text would be valuable to the Government. Remain compatible with the current Concordance and Opticon software versions in use at the SEC. The contractor shall update and revise Concordance database fields based on Government guidance. Initially, the contractor shall include the fields provided in Section J, Attachment 1 in Concordance 9 databases. Extract all data from compound files, as defined by either the OpenDoc or Microsoft Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) standards. Update the BDMT record for the request as necessary. Perform OCR on files without embedded text that are uncovered during EDD, in accordance with the description provided in Task 3, OCR Processing. Load files unsuitable for OCR or text extraction; such as, audio files (.wav) and Microsoft Access databases (.mdb), into Concordance databases with a link to the native file. Extract the metadata contained in Section J, Attachment 4 from files being processed by EDD. Use a MD5 or SHA-1 hash algorithm when de-duplicating electronic mail messages. Process files that are in the most current versions of Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, and other commonly used software products. Process files that are in older versions of Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, and other commonly used software products. Decode embedded documents such as MIME. Decode and process UNIcode documents. Types of EDD Processing

C.4.2.1

The contractor shall perform the following types of EDD processing: C.4.2.1.1 Native Files, Electronic Mail Files and Attachments with TIFF Images

The contractor shall create TIFF images from messages in electronic mail databases; such as, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Outlook, and Lotus Notes. The contractor shall create TIFF images from attachments to the electronic mail messages. Specifically, the contractor shall perform the following: a. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. Create a separate record for each electronic mail message and electronic mail attachment. Create a link from electronic mail messages to each child electronic mail attachment. Create a link from each electronic mail attachment back to the parent electronic mail message. Extract text from the electronic mail messages and deliver all text for storage in the Concordance 9 databases. Extract metadata about the electronic mail messages and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Extract document specific and system metadata from the electronic mail databases and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Hyperlink attachment records in the Concordance 9 databases to the native file attachments. Hyperlink email messages in the Concordance 9 databases to the message (.msg, .eml) files. Uniquely number the email messages and attachments in fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Use a numbering scheme that provides unique numbers for every message and attachment within a case. With guidance from the Government, the contractor shall endorse the TIFF images of electronic mail messages and attachments with Bates numbers. Continue Bates numbering in sequence when a new request / tasktask is processed for the same case number and source combination as a previous tasktask.

k.

The contractor shall extract text from native (loose) files. The contractor shall create TIFF images from native (loose) files. The contractor shall extract text at least from all file types supported by the most current version of Quick View Plus (http://www.avantstar.com/Products/Quick_View_Plus/QuickViewPlusOverview) or Stellent. Specifically, the contractor shall perform the following:
14 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

a. Extract document specific and system metadata from the native files and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. b. Create TIFF images from the native files. c. Endorse the TIFF images of native files with Bates numbers. The contractor shall use a Bates numbering scheme that provides unique numbers for every native file within a case. d. Extract text from the native files and deliver the most accurate text possible for storage in the Concordance 9 databases. e. Hyperlink the Concordance database record to the native file in the "LINK" field. C.4.2.1.2 Text Extraction from Native Files, Electronic Mail Files and Attachments

The contractor shall extract text from messages in electronic mail databases; such as, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Outlook, and Lotus Notes. The contractor shall extract text from attachments to the electronic mail messages. Specifically, the contractor shall perform the following: a. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. Create a separate record for each electronic mail message and electronic mail attachment. Create a link from electronic mail messages to each child electronic mail attachment. Create a link from each electronic mail attachment back to the parent electronic mail message. Extract text from the electronic mail messages and deliver all text for storage in the Concordance 9 databases. Extract metadata about the electronic mail messages and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Extract document specific and system metadata from the electronic mail databases and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Hyperlink attachment records in the Concordance 9 databases to the native file attachments. Hyperlink email messages in the Concordance 9 databases to the message (.msg, .eml) files. Uniquely number the email messages and attachments in fields in the Concordance 9 databases. Use a numbering scheme that provides unique numbers for every message, attachment, and document within a case. Continue unique document numbering in sequence when a new request / task is processed for the same case number and source combination as a previous task.

The contractor shall extract text from native (loose) files, electronic mail files and attachments. The contractor shall extract text at least from all file types supported by the most current version of Quick View Plus (http://www.avantstar.com/Products/Quick_View_Plus/QuickViewPlusOverview) or Stellent. Specifically, the contractor shall perform the following: a. Hyperlink the Concordance database record to the native file in the "LINK" field. b. Number the native files in "BEGDOC" and "ENDDOC" fields in the Concordance 9 databases. The contractor shall use a numbering scheme that provides unique numbers for every native file within a case. c. Extract text from the native files and deliver the most accurate text possible for storage in the Concordance 9 databases. d. Extract document specific and system metadata from the native files and deliver it as fields in the Concordance 9 databases. C.4.2.2 On-site and Contractor Facility Processing of EDD

The contractor shall perform EDD processing on-site to minimize delays in transporting media. The contractor shall perform EDD processing at contractor facilities to handle large tasks and surges in workload that exceed the on-site processing capacity. The contractor shall pick up electronic media from the SEC at least once per day. The contractor shall ship or courier electronic media to and from SEC Offices and contractor facilities. The contractor shall provide all staff, computer hardware, software, to process at least 80GB of EDD
15 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

work per month on-site at Station Place. The contractor shall provide all staff, computer hardware, software, to process up to 400GB of EDD work per month at the contractor's facilities. Note that the total capacity of 480 GB per month in this paragraph provides a margin of spare capacity to handle surges when compared to the estimated average workload of 440 GB per month in paragraph C.4.2 above. C.4.2.3 Preservation of Data and Media During EDD Processing

The contractor shall maintain a tracking for all electronic storage media containing evidentiary data to assure continuous accountability. The contractor shall ensure that no information is added or changed. In support of this process the contractor shall perform the following: a. Preserve electronic media containing evidentiary data to maintain the integrity of the media in its original condition. b. Provide a log with every EDD deliverable that provides lists of all files removed through the deduplication process. The contractor shall include Exception reports that list: files that were password protected or encrypted, regardless of whether the contractor was able to open and extract the data in the file; Compound files; files not suitable for OCR or text extraction; and files not supported by the EDD system. The contractor shall list the file name and the file path to the file on the original media provided to the contractor in the Exception reports. c. Provide a report with every EDD deliverable that includes: Case #, Source, BDMT request #, total data volume in megabytes processed (incoming), total data volume in megabytes delivered (outgoing), a list of each file type processed, and the number of files processed per file type. d. Log when electronic storage media is received from and returned to SEC staff. C.4.2.4 Delivery Time Standards

The contractor shall adhere to the following turnaround requirements for processing electronic documents and data discovery and delivering the Concordance databases on electronic media to the Government. Task size will be measured by the file size on the media given by the SEC to the contractor to process (compressed input file size). Task Size Less than 650MB (approximately 1 CD) Greater than 650MB and less than 5GB (approximately 1 DVD) Greater than 5GB and less than 100GB Greater than 100GB Seven (7) business days after receipt of media A request or an aggregate of requests greater than 100GB will be processed and delivered according schedule negotiated between the SEC and the contractor. Copied to SEC Storage and Made Available a SEC staff notified Two (2) business days after receipt of the media Four (4) business days after receipt of the media

Contractor performance compared to these service levels will be evaluated as follows:

How is this SLA measured?

Dates in BDMT for delivery and receipt of a requ
16 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

When does the clock start? When does the clock end? Period of Measurement Standard of Measurement Exceptions

The next business day after a request is entered in BDMT. When the SEC is notified and the database is avai to be loaded. Elapsed days. % of requests completed on time High priority tasks and tasks that require reproces

The SEC will designate some tasks as high priority or "RUSH." High priority tasks will be moved to the front of the queue to be processed. Tasks delayed by being preempted by rush tasks will not be included in calculating the percentage of requests completed on time. C.4.2.5 Exception Handling and Reprocessing The contractor shall create listings of all exceptions that occur during processing. The contractor shall create a list of all password protected files that could not be processed. The contractor shall create a list of all corrupted files that could not be processed. The contractor shall create a list of all files with an unknown or missing file signature. The contractor shall communicate the exceptions and any other problems with the task to the SEC litigation support specialists. The contractor shall mark the tasks with unprocessable exceptions as "follow-up required" in BDMT. When replacement media is received, or when passwords are provided, the contractor shall reprocess the task. The contractor shall create a Concordance overlay database from reprocessing, so that the reprocessed data can be added to partially processed Concordance databases that have been loaded already onto SEC servers. C.4.3 Task 3 ­ Optical Character Recognition (OCR) Processing Report

The contractor shall perform Machine-only OCR on images from productions without matching text that the contractor receives from the Government. The SEC has averaged a requirement of approximately 30 GB of images per month during the first seven months of FY 2007. The peak was 75 GB in March. The contractor shall perform this task at their own site using contractor-supplied software. In support of this task the contractor shall perform the following: a. b. c. d. Use state-of-the-art methods and software components to optimize the quality of the delivered text. Use the highest quality OCR methods commercially available at all times. Include line delimiters in all OCR text files. Ensure that the OCR text file reflects the most meaningful information from the image based on the document portrait of landscape. e. Perform OCR on portable document format (PDF) files that do not already have text encapsulated in them. f. Deliver OCR test in a Concordance 9 database, an EDRM XML format, or PDF files with embedded text, per the request. g. Deliver a Concordance Image 4.5 (Opticon) image cross-reference file when OCR text is delivered in a Concordance database. h. Deliver a list of files unsuitable for OCR; such as, audio files (.wav) and Microsoft Access databases (.mdb), that were included in the document collection.

The contractor shall adhere to the following turnaround requirements for performing OCR on images of documents and delivering the OCR text files on electronic media to the Government:
17 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

Task Size Less than 650MB (approximately 1 CD) Greater than 650MB and less than 5GB (approximately 1 DVD) Greater than 5GB

Copied to SEC Storage and Made Available a SEC staff notified One (1) work-day after receipt of the media Three (3) work-days after receipt of the media

Five (5) work-days after receipt of the media

Contractor performance compared to these service levels will be evaluated as follows:

How is this SLA measured? When does the clock start? When does the clock end? Period of Measurement Standard of Measurement
C.4.4

Dates in BDMT for delivery and receipt of a requ The next business day after a request is entered in BDMT. When the SEC is notified and the database is avai to be loaded. Elapsed days. % of requests completed on time

Task 4 ­ Electronic Endorsement

The contractor shall endorse TIFF images with Bates numbers. Images will be reduced to no less than 98% of original size to provide space to apply numbering. The document numbering shall be applied at the bottom right of the page. All pages shall be electronically endorsed according to a numbering convention defined by the SEC. For example, on Enforcement case HO-01234, the SEC POC may direct that all pages be electronically endorsed with a number in the form: SEC-01234-nnnnnnnn, where "nnnnnnnn" is an eight digit sequential number. The contractor shall deliver endorsed TIFF images. The SEC has averaged 250,000 pages per month for the first seven months of FY 2007. Due to a few large tasks, the SEC averaged over 450,000 pages per month in FY 2006. The contractor shall perform this task at their site and with their own hardware and software. The contractor shall deliver endorsed TIFF images. Note that the contractor shall include electronic endorsement on all Task 2 EDD processing with TIFF image creation not separately price. Task 4 applies when the SEC provides a set of TIFF images to the contractor to be endorsed. The contractor shall apply an Endorsement as large as the following, in addition to a Bates #: Confidential pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act Section 24(d). For SEC intelligence purposes only. DO NOT DISCLOSE TO CRIMINAL AUTHORITIES OR OTHER THIRD PARTIES. Do not use as evidence in testimony, judicial or SEC proceedings, or any other proceedings. Call OIA for further information at x16690.

18 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION D- PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1 Preservation, packaging, packing, and marking of all deliverables shall conform to standard commercial packing standards to assure safe delivery at destination. D.2 Marking. All information submitted to the Contracting Officer, the COTR or Inspection and Acceptance Officer (IAO), or his /her designated contact shall clearly indicate contract and task/request number.

SECTION E- INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE Inspection and acceptance of the services to be furnished under this contract will be performed by the COTR who is located at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St. NE, Washington DC 20549. The COTR will track the contractor's progress and performance based on status reports and all other deliverables specified in Section F, Deliveries or Performance. SECTION F ­ DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F.1 Period of Performance. The period of performance is one year with four (4) successive one year options. At the end of the base year, if exercised, the first option will begin. If all options are exercised, the period of performance will not exceed a total of five years and six months. The contract may be extended up to six months (See 52.217-8). If exercised, the period of performance for each successive option will begin the day after expiration of the previous year and continue for one year. Exercise of any option requires a contract modification signed by the SEC Contracting Officer. F.2 Place of Performance. Approximately 80% of the work is anticipated to be performed offsite at the contractor's facility. Approximately 20% of the work will be performed at the SEC's Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria VA 22312. Most work under this contract will be performed during regular business hours of 8 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday. F.3 Schedule of Deliverables. The contractor shall submit document deliverables to the COTR by email in the latest version of Microsoft Word or compatible, as approved by the COTR. When deliverables are sent via email, the Contractor shall request a confirmation of receipt from the COTR.

19 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

1 2

Section C.4.1.1 C.4.1.1

Deliverable Draft Program Management Plan Final Program Management Plan

Recipient COTR COTR

3 4

C.4.1.1 C.4.1.2

Updated Program Management Plan Monthly Status Report

COTR COTR

5 6 7 8 9 10

C.4.1.3 C.4.1.3 C.4.1.4 C.4.1.4 C.4.1.5 C.4.2.1.1

Productivity Reports Productivity Reports Incoming Transition Plan Outgoing Transition Plan Project Kickoff Meeting Litigation support database (Concordance) of native files, e-mail messages and attachments with Bates endorsed TIFF images Litigation support database (Concordance) of native files, e-mail messages and attachments without TIFF images OCR Processing Report Endorsed TIFF images

TPOC COTR, TPOC COTR COTR CO, COTR TPOC

Schedule Within 10 business days after contract award Within 10 business days of receipt of comments on the draft from the COTR Annually/As Changes Occur By the fifth business day of the month following the month being reported on Weekly Monthly Within 5 business days of the Project Kickoff meeting 20 business days prior to the end of the contract Within two weeks of contract award Per C.4.2.4 based on the size of the task

11

C.4.2.1.2

TPOC

Per C.4.2.4 based on the size of the task

12 13

C.4.3 C.4.4

TPOC TPOC

Per C.4.3 based on the size of the task Per C.4.3 based on the size of the task

SECTION G ­ CONTRACT ADMINISTRATIVE DATA G.1 SEC Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR). A Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) will be designated on this contract. The COTR will assist the Contracting Officer in the administration of technical details within the scope of the task order and will perform inspection and acceptance of deliverables. The COTR is not otherwise authorized to make any representations or commitments of any kind on behalf of the Contracting Officer or the SEC. The COTR does not have the authority to alter the contractor's obligations or change the specifications in the contract. If, as a result of technical discussions, it is desirable to alter contract obligations or statements of work, a modification shall be issued in writing and signed by the Contracting Officer. G.2 Contract Administration. This contract will be administered by the Office of Acquisitions of the Securities and Exchange Commission. All inquiries should be directed to the Contracting Officer at the following address: US Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Acquisitions, Attn: Vance Cathell, Stop 0-20, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria VA 22312 or cathellv@sec.gov or 202-551-8385. G.3 Submission of Invoices. a. The Contractor shall submit original invoices with 4 copies to the address identified in the award. b. In addition to the requirements of the Prompt Payment clause of this contract, the Contractor shall cite on each invoice the contract number, task order number, award line item number or the award subline item number being invoiced. c. The Contractor shall prepare: a separate invoice for each activity designated to receive the supplies or services
20 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

a consolidated invoice covering all shipments delivered under an individual order either of the above G.4 FAR Clause 52.232-18 Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) Funds of $_(TBD)________ are not presently available for this contract. The Government's obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer. SECTION H ­ SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 Type Contract. This contract is part firm fixed price and part labor hour. H.2 Points of Contact. At time of award, the contractor shall provide appropriate points of contact who have the authority to escalate issues. H.3 Non-Disclosure Requirements. Required non-disclosure forms (Attachment 5 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Contractor) and Attachment 6 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Employee) are attached and must be completed and returned to the Contracting Officer before starting work under this contract. a. Restrictions On Use, Disclosure, And Duplication Of Confidential And Non-Public Information. Confidential and non-public information, for purposes of this clause consists of, but is not limited to, all financial, statistical, personnel and/or technical data which is furnished, produced, generated, or otherwise available to the Contractor, during the performance of this contract. Unless otherwise specified, confidential and non-public information shall not be used for purposes other than performance of work under this contract without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor, and its employees, agents, subcontractors, and subcontractor personnel are restricted from duplicating or disclosing confidential or non-public information, in whole or in part, outside the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for purposes other than fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this contract. Any presentation of any confidential or non-public information, or any reports or material derived from confidential or non-public information shall be subject to review of the Contracting Officer prior to publication or dissemination. Any questions about whether information is confidential or nonpublic shall be referred to the Contracting Officer prior to use, disclosure or duplication. b. Non-Disclosure Agreement For Confidential And Non-Public Information. Rules 3(b)(1) and 3(b)(7) of the SEC's conduct regulation (17 C.F.R. 200.735-3(b) (1) and (7)) expressly prohibit unauthorized disclosure and improper use of confidential or non-public information or documents. The Contractor, and its employees, agents, subcontractors, and subcontractor personnel who will have access to confidential or non-public information or documents in the performance of the contract, agree to be bound by the provisions of rules 3(b)(1) and 3(b)(7) of the SEC's conduct regulation and the terms set forth in the attached non-disclosure agreements (Attachment 5 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Contractor) and Attachment 6 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Employee) 5). The Contractor and all personnel assigned to the contract agree not to divulge to any unauthorized person non-public or confidential information obtained from the SEC in performance of their duties under the contract. The Contractor and all employees, agents, subcontractors and subcontractor personnel who will have access to confidential or non-public information or documents during the performance of their duties under the contract shall execute the attached NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENTS (Attachment 5 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Contractor) and Attachment 6 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Employee) as applicable and return it to the Contracting Officer before being given access to such information or documents. Violation of this clause by the Contractor, its employees, agents, subcontractors, or subcontractor personnel may result in default of the contract and/or civil suits and/or criminal prosecution. c. SEC Non-Disclosure Agreement. The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a list of its employees, agents, and subcontractors that will be authorized access to SEC information by virtue of performing the requirements set forth in this contract. Each person identified on the list shall then sign
21 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

a non-disclosure agreement (Attachment 6 Non-Disclosure Agreement (Employee) and submit it to the Contracting Officer before starting work at the SEC. The Contractor shall also ensure that all of its employees, agents, and subcontractors assigned to perform the requirements set forth in this contract adhere to the terms of the non-disclosure agreement, protecting all confidential or non-public information. Assignment of staff who has not executed the non-disclosure agreement or failure to adhere to this statement shall result in action by the Contracting Officer, as deemed appropriate. d. Approval of Subcontracts. The Government reserves the right to approve or disapprove any subcontract and a subcontractor selected. Therefore, the Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's approval of all subcontractors and provide copies of subcontracts for any work required by this contract. e. Electronic and Information Technology (EIT). In accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), all EIT supplies and services provided under this contract must comply with the applicable accessibility standards issued by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board at 36 CFR Part 1194 (see FAR Subpart 39.2). Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) is defined at FAR 2.101. f. Pre-employment Check. The Contractor shall be subject to a pre-employment check, which will be completed by the SEC. The pre-employment check shall include a background investigation of each proposed employee under this contract to determine suitability for employment on the basis of qualifications for the task. The Contractor shall submit OPM Form 85P for each prospective employee. OPM Form 85P is available at http://www.opm.gov/forms. The Government reserves the right of final approval for prospective employees. The pre-employment check shall include, but not be limited to: i. Criminal History Check. Local jurisdictions including the Virginia State Police, Maryland State Police and the Washington Metropolitan Police Department shall be contacted to determine criminal history of each Contract employee. Contract employees who have residency in local jurisdictions of less than six months shall also have criminal history checks from the city or county of their most recent residency. A national criminal history report must also be obtained from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). ii. Credit History Check. Credit history shall evidence the Contract employee to be responsible with credit obligations. A Contract employee receiving an unfavorable credit rating must be approved by the COTR prior to acceptance to this Contract. The explanation shall be addressed in writing to explain the circumstances and submitted to the CO for approval prior to assignment on this Contract.
G. SECURITY AND PRIVACY ACT MATTERS. THE SECURITY CLASSIFICATION FOR WORK PERFORMED UNDER THIS CONTRACT IS NON-PUBLIC/SENSITIVE. THE DOCUMENTS THAT SHALL BE REVIEWED AND PRODUCED ARE NON-PUBLIC AND SENSITIVE IN NATURE AND SHALL BE PROTECTED FROM UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE. WORK ON THIS PROJECT REQUIRES THAT PERSONNEL HAVE ACCESS TO PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION. PERSONNEL SHALL ADHERE TO THE PRIVACY ACT, TITLE 5 OF THE U. S. CODE, SECTION 552A AND APPLICABLE AGENCY RULES AND REGULATIONS.

SECTION I- CONTRACT CLAUSES This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items (Mar 2009) 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-- Commercial Items (May 2009) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
22 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (MAR 2009) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) __ (4) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 111-5). __ (5) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (6) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JULY 2005) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (7) [Reserved] __ (8)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6. __ (9)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. __ (10) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). __ (11)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (12) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). __ (13) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (14)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (15) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (16) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

23 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

__ (17) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). __ (18) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). _X (19) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X_ (20) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Feb 2008) (E.O. 13126). _X_ (21) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (22) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (23) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (24) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). __ (25) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). __ (26) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201). __ (27) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (28)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (29) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (30)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (31) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (32)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, Pub. L 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 109-53 and 109-169). __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. _X_ (33) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (MAR 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). __ (34) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (35) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (36) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (37) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (38) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (39) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
24 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

__ (40) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (41) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (42) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (43)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Nov 2006) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Feb 2002) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause--
25 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201). (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.

26 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed six (6) months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within the preceding period of performance.

52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days from the date of expiration; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause and extensions, shall not exceed 5 years and 6 months. SECTION J- LIST OF ATTACHMENTS/EXHIBITS Attachment 1 Attachment 2 Attachment 3 Attachment 4 Attachment 5 Attachment 6 Onsite EDD Tracking DB Fields Independent Quality Control Checklist EDD Fields Metadata Fields List Non-Disclosure Agreement (Contractor) Non-Disclosure Agreement (Employee)

SECTION K ­ REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF BIDDERS FAR Clause 52.212-3 "Offeror Representations And Certifications--Commercial Items (Feb 2009)" applies. The contractor shall complete representations and certifications online at http://www.orca.bpn.gov.

27 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION L ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS
L.1 Submission of Quotes. Quoters are responsible for submitting quotes so as to reach the Government office designated below by 5pm EST, June 29, 2009. Quotes shall be submitted by mail, hand delivery or email. Email submission is preferred. Quotes submitted by email shall be deemed received when they arrive at the email address specified below: Securities and Exchange Commission Attn: Vance Cathell Office of Acquisitions 6432 General Green Way, MS 0-20 Alexandria VA 22312 Email: cathellv@sec.gov Technical and Cost Quotes received after the deadline will not be considered. L.2 Questions. Questions concerning this RFQ shall be submitted in writing via email to Vance Cathell at cathellv@sec.gov no later than 12:00PM E.S.T. June 17, 2009. Questions will be answered in writing through an amendment to the solicitation in Fedbizopps. L.3 Quote Preparation. Unless emailed, the Quoter shall submit one (1) original and three (3) copies of the Technical Quote and one (1) original and one (1) copy of the Price Quote containing the information set forth below. Email attachments are to be compatible with Microsoft Office products. The Price Quote containing pricing shall be submitted in a separate volume from the Technical Quote. The Technical and Price Quotes shall be separate and complete so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the other. The Government anticipates awarding a contract to the Quoter whose response represents the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered. L.4 Exceptions, Deviations, Assumptions. In the first two pages of its Technical Proposal, the quoter shall identify and explain any exceptions, deviations taken or conditional assumptions made with respect to the proposal versus the requirements of the contract. Any exceptions, etc., taken shall contain sufficient amplification and justification to permit evaluation. All benefits to the SEC shall be explained for each exception, etc. taken. Quoters are cautioned that ANY exceptions, deviations taken, or conditional assumptions may render your proposal unacceptable and not considered for award. L.5 Price Quote a. The price quote shall be complete and accurate in all respects and provide all pricing data to demonstrate Quoter's ability to satisfactorily perform the work called for by the Contract. The price quote must be aligned with the Quoter's technical quote to permit the SEC to perform a complete evaluation of the proposed prices. b. The Price Quote shall include: ˇ Al pricing in accordance with Section B. ˇ The Quoter must meet all requirements as listed in Sections A-J and be registered in CCR. A copy of the current CCR registration shall be included in the Price Quote submitted. ˇ The price quote must include the Tax Identification Number (TIN) of the quoter. ˇ A statement of the financial qualifications of the Quoter and its ability to financially support and fulfill the requirements of the contract. The Quoter must submit its latest financial statements and/or D&B report. This section shall not exceed 5 pages. ˇ A statement explaining how the price was derived. L.6 Technical Quote a. Quoters shall provide a technical quote in response to this RFQ. The Government anticipates awarding a contract to the Quoter whose quote provides the "best value" to the Government, price and other factors considered. Technical Quotes shall address the requirements of the contract and the evaluation factors in
28 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION M of this solicitation in a straightforward, complete and concise manner. c. The technical quote shall not refer to price. However, resource information such as data concerning labor hours and category, materials, subcontracts, etc. shall be included in the technical quotes, if applicable, so that the Government can evaluate the Quoter's understanding of the scope of the required work. d. Technical Quote Requirements: 1. Page limit for Technical Quote is twenty (20) pages total and at least a 10 point font. 2. The technical quote shall be divided into the following sections: a. Factor 1: Technical Capability. Step 1. The Quoter shall describe in detail its technical capabilities on how it will meet the criteria in the statement of work. The Quoter shall describe in detail its technical and management approach. The Quoter's technical approach shall clearly describe and address the Quoter's understanding of the desired outcomes contained in the SOW. The Quoter's management approach should clearly cite discrete examples of successful performance and tangible results similar to the specific task categories contained in the SOW. Statements such as "the Quoter understands" or "the Quoter will comply" and statements that paraphrase the SOW or other contract requirements are inadequate. Step 2. After quotes are submitted, SEC will send a CD of sample data to process to all vendors who respond to this solicitation. The CD will be shipped to vendors by overnight shipment. Vendors will be required to process the data and return it to the SEC within 48 hours. Vendors will be required to produce a Concordance 9 database from the government's sample data set. SEC will evaluate whether the processing meets SEC requirements as delineated in Section C, Paragraph 4.2.1.1 (a-e). Late delivery of processed data set will not be allowed and will render an Unacceptable Rating. Quoters may be eliminated at this step if they receive an "Unacceptable" rating . Those quoters that have not been eliminated at this step may be considered further. b. Factor 2: Past Performance. The Quoter shall demonstrate its capacity to successfully perform the requirements contained in the SOW and shall submit the following information for three (3) federal or commercial contracts performed within the past five years that are similar in scope to the requirements of this SOW: ˇ Type of client (federal or commercial) ˇ Total contract dollar amount by year ˇ A description of the contract work ˇ Type of contract (for example, cost reimbursement, fixed price) ˇ Contract number and date of contract start and expiration ˇ Name of contracting organization, telephone and fax numbers ˇ Contracting Officer and telephone number ˇ Contracting Officer's Technical Representative, program manager, or similar official and telephone number ˇ A list of all disputes associated with the contract; and ˇ A list of the contract options that were not exercised and the reason(s) why they were not exercised. In demonstrating past performance, the Quoter shall describe the relevance of the work experience listed above to the requirements contained in the SOW, and should provide any other information that would serve to establish the Quoter's proven corporate technical and managerial experience in fulfilling the requirements contained in the scope of this SOW. NOTE: In the case of a Quoter without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available, the Quoter will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance. While the Government may elect to consider data from other sources, the burden of providing thorough and complete past performance information rests with the Quoter.
29 of 30 SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

SECTION M ­ EVALUATION OF QUOTES FOR AWARD M.1 Evaluation of Quotes a. The SEC reserves the right to award the contract based on initial Quotes received, without discussions or negotiations of such Quotes (FAR Part 13 shall apply). Therefore, it is critically important that each Quote be fully responsive to the RFQ, without exception to any provision. The SEC also reserves the right to conduct discussions, if later determined to be necessary. b. The SEC anticipates awarding a contract to the Quoter whose quote is the best value to the SEC, proposed price and other factors considered. The Contracting Officer may award to other than the Quote with the lowest price or other than the highest technically rated Quoter when in the best interest of the Government. The SEC reserves the right to make no award pursuant to this solicitation. c. Technical Capability is more important than Past Performance. Technical factors combined are more important than price, however, the importance of price will increase as the technical merit of the quotes becomes more equal. d. To be accepted and eligible for evaluation, Quotes must be prepared in accordance with this solicitation and must comply with the instructions given in this solicitation document and must meet all the solicitation requirements. Quotes meeting the requirements of this solicitation and complying with other contract provisions will be evaluated and award made to the responsible Quoter whose quote is determined to be most advantageous to the Government. e. Technical Evaluation Factors for Award. Quotes will be evaluated on the following factors: Factor 1: Technical Capability. The degree to which the Quoter's capabilities demonstrate an understanding of and meets the technical requirements of this solicitation. Factor 2: Past Performance: The SEC will evaluate the Quoter's past performance experience based on how well it is directly related to the requirements of this project. Past performance information will be evaluated to assess any risks to the Quoter's ability to successfully perform the requirements of this solicitation. If no direct or similar experience is provide, this factor will receive a neutral rating. Evaluation will assess the Quoter's ability to conform to contract requirements and adhere to contract schedules, and its commitment to customer satisfaction based upon its record of past performance for contracts that are similar in scope to this RFQ. f. Price Evaluation Factors for Award. SEC will evaluate Price Quotes based on the reasonableness and fairness of the Quoter's proposed Section B pricing.

30 of 30

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Electronic Document Discovery

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50

Field Name DOCID PARENTID ATTACHID FIRSTBATES LASTBATES ATTACHRANGE NATIVELINK EMAILLINK ATTACHLINK AUTHOR LASTAUTHOR TO FROM CC BCC SUBJECT DATESENT TIMESENT PATH FOLDER CUSTODIAN SOURCE PROD_DATE DATECREATED LASTMODIFIED LASTPRINTED TITLE FILENAME ATTACHMENTS SENTOBONAME HIDDENCOLUMN HIDDENROW HIDDENWKSHT HIDDENTEXT HIDDENDATA TRACKCHANGES WHITETEXT DOCUMENTTYPE EXTENSION FILESIZE PAGECOUNT VERSION PASSWD2OPEN MESSAGEID HASHVALUE OCRTEXT OCRTEXT2 OCRTEXT3 OCRTEXT4 OCRTEXT5 OCRTEXT6

Field Type Text Field Text Field Multi Entry Text Field Text Field Text Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Date Field MM/DD/YYYY Text Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Date Field MM/DD/YYYY Date Field MM/DD/YYYY Date Field MM/DD/YYYY Date Field MM/DD/YYYY Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Text Field Paragraph Field Text Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field NUMERIC Number Field NUMERIC Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field Paragraph Field

Field Description Unique document identifier Unique document identifier of parent document List of child identifiers Starting bates including prefix Ending bates including prefix The range of documents in a family - generated Document link to native file - edocs, emails Document link to email - available in attachment documents only Document link(s) to email attachments - available for email documents only Author extracted from native file meta data Last author of the document Recipients of email message Author of email message Copy of email message Blind copy of email message Subject of email message Date email message sent Time email message sent Original path of native file as found on media processed User defined, has been used to identify email fold-COMBINE WITH PATH Name of custodian assigned to EDD request Source assigned to EDD request Production date assigned to EDD request Create date extracted from native file meta data Last modified date extracted from native file meta data Last print date of native file Title extracted from native file meta data Name of native file List of filenames of attachments Name of the intended sender of the mail message Flag for hidden columns Flag for hidden rows Flag for hidden worksheets Flag indicating if document contains any Hidden Text (Y or N) Hidden Text if applicable Paragraph Field Flag indicating if track changes are present (Y or N) Flag for white text in an Excel file Type of Document File extension Size of native file Number of pages in document Version of the document Flag if a password was used to open the document Outlook internal message id Hash value (MD5 or SHA1) of native file Text extracted from document Text extracted from document Text extracted from document Text extracted from document Text extracted from document Text extracted from document

Comments

This is the image key Cricket Field

Cricket Field Do not combine with Author Field

DELETE and combine into PATH Field

Change name from PRINTDATE to LASTPRINTED

Cricket Field Cricket Field Cricket Field Cricket Field

Cricket Field Rename from FILETYPE to DOCUMENTTYPE

Rename from PAGES to PAGECOUNT Cricket Field Rename to from MD5HASH to HASHVALUE Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT2 Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT3 Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT4 Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT5 Rename from TEXT to OCRTEXT6

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 3

Metadata Fields List

Microsoft Office Suite files: - Title - Subject - Original Author - Last Author - Company - Category - Keywords - Comments - Create Date - Modified Date - Last Accessed - Printed Date - File Size - Path (Location) Word Perfect files: - Descriptive Name - Descriptive Type - Revision Date - Author - Typist - Subject - Create Date - Last Accessed - File Size - Path Adobe Acrobat (portable document format) files: - Title - Author - Subject - Keywords - Create Date - Modified Date - Last Accessed - File Size - Path - Company

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 4

ATTACHMENT 5 NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (CONTRACTOR) A. Intending to be legally bound, ________________ (the "Contractor"), hereby accepts the obligations contained in this Agreement in consideration of being granted conditional access to SEC confidential and nonpublic information. For purposes of this Agreement, "confidential or non-public information," is defined as information generated by or in the possession of the SEC that is commercially valuable, trade secret, market sensitive, proprietary, related to an SEC enforcement or examination matter, subject to privilege, protected by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. § 552a), or otherwise deemed confidential or non-public by an SEC division director or office head, and is not otherwise available to the public. This definition applies to confidential or non-public information in any form, including documents, electronic mail, computer files, conversations, and audio or video recordings. For purposes of this Agreement, examples of confidential or non-public information include corporate financial data provided to the SEC that has not been made public; SEC planned or contemplated courses of action regarding SEC examinations, investigations, and enforcement actions; and SEC personnel information covered by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a. B. The Contractor acknowledges that any conditional access to SEC confidential and non-public information is granted to Contractor for the sole purpose of performing its obligations under SEC Contract _____________________ (the "underlying Contract"). This Agreement does not grant Contractor access to information or materials that the SEC determines in its sole discretion is inappropriate for disclosure to Contractor. C. Contractor acknowledges that the SEC Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission expressly prohibits the improper use and unauthorized disclosure of confidential or non-public information or documents. See 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(1) & (b)(7) available at http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=17:2.0.1.1.1&idno=17. Contractor, for itself and its employees, agents, and subcontractors, agrees to be bound by the prohibitions of § 200.735-3(b)(1) & (b)(7) and the terms set forth herein. Contractor, for itself and its employees, agents, and subcontractors, agrees not to disclose to any unauthorized person any confidential or non-public documents or information to which Contractor or its employees, agents, or subcontractors have access in the performance of duties under the underlying Contract. D. In accordance with the SEC Regulation at 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(1), the Contractor, for itself and its employees, agents, and subcontractors, agrees not to engage, directly or indirectly, in any personal business transaction or private arrangement for personal profit the opportunity for which arises because of performance under the Contract, or that is based upon confidential or non-public information which the Contractor and its employees, agents, and subcontractors gain in the course of performance under the Contract. E. In accordance with the SEC Regulation at 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(7)(i), the Contractor, for itself and its employees, agents, and subcontractors, agrees not to disclose to any unauthorized person or release in advance of authorization for its release, any confidential or non-public document or information : (1) protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. §§ 552, 552a, and 552b or any rules or regulations of the SEC; or (2) in circumstances where the SEC has determined to accord such information confidential treatment, unless the SEC authorizes the disclosure of such information as provided for under 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(7)(ii). Confidential and non-public information shall be shared with authorized persons only on a need-to-know basis.

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 5

F. For purposes of this Agreement, an "unauthorized person" is anyone other than (1) an officer or employee of the SEC, (2) an employee of the Contractor who has executed a non-disclosure agreement with the SEC under the Contract, (3) an employee of a subcontractor of the Contractor who has executed a nondisclosure agreement with the SEC under the Contract, and whose employer advises Contractor as such, or (4) any individual that the Contracting Officer expressly designates as a person authorized to receive the confidential or non-public information at issue. G. Contractor acknowledges that other federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to the following, may also prohibit the disclosure of confidential and non-public information received pursuant to the Contract: the Government Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. § 1905) (available at http://assembler.law.cornell.edu/uscode/html/uscode18/usc_sec_18_00001905----000-.html); 18 U.S.C. § 641 (theft of public property or records) (available at http://assembler.law.cornell.edu/ uscode/html/uscode18/usc_sec_18_00000641----000-.html); Rule 122 (17 C.F.R. § 230.122) under the Securities Act of 1933 (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=230&SECTION=122&TYPE=PDF); Section 24(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78x) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/sea34.pdf)and Rules 0-4 (17 C.F.R. § 240.0-4) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getcfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=0-4&TYPE=PDF), 10b-5 (17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/get-cfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=10b-5&TYPE=PDF), and 24b-2 (17 C.F.R. § 240.24b-2) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getcfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=24b-2&TYPE=PDF), thereunder; Section 22(c) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. § 79y) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/puhca35.pdf) and Rule 104 thereunder (17 C.F.R. § 250.104) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/get-cfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=250&SECTION=104&TYPE=PDF); Section 45(a) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. § 80a-44) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/ica40.pdf); and Section 210(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. § 80b-10) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/iaa40.pdf). Contractor is aware of such laws and regulations and agrees to comply with the standards for protecting confidential and non-public information in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the specific information to which it has access. H. If there is doubt as to whether a document or information is confidential or non-public, or whether a proposed recipient of a document or information is an unauthorized person, the Contractor shall request clarification from the Contracting Officer. I. The Contractor acknowledges that it has received and read the SEC Regulations 17 C.F.R. § 200.7353(b)(1) & (b)(7) and has referred any questions regarding those Regulations or this Agreement to the Contracting Officer. J. The Contractor acknowledges that disclosure of confidential or non-public information in violation of this agreement could subject the Contractor to administrative, civil, or criminal action, as appropriate, under the laws and regulations applicable to the information involved. Violation of this Agreement may also constitute a ground for termination of the Contractor's underlying Contract with the SEC, and/or suspension and debarment from receiving future federal contracts. Contractor understands that the United States Government may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement, including but not limited to application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in violation of this Agreement.

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 5

K. Contractor hereby assigns to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any personal business transaction inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or any disclosure, publication, or revelation of confidential or non-public information inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. L. Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should hold any provision of this Agreement unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. M. Contractor acknowledges that all conditions and obligations created by this Agreement apply during the performance of the underlying SEC Contract and thereafter with respect to information accessed by Contractor that remains confidential or non-public. N. The person signing this Agreement on behalf of Contractor warrants that he or she has the authority to enter into this Agreement on behalf of Contractor. Contractor Name: Signature & Title: Date: ___________________________ _________________________________ _________________________________ by

This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the SEC as a prior condition of conditional access to confidential and non-public information. _________________________________ SEC Representative ________________________ Date

MUST BE RETURNED TO LINDA BAIER PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF WORK

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 5

ATTACHMENT 6 NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (EMPLOYEE) A. Intending to be legally bound, I, _________________ , hereby accept the obligations contained in this Agreement in consideration of being granted conditional access to SEC confidential and non-public information. For purposes of this Agreement, "confidential or non-public information," is defined as information generated by or in the possession of the SEC that is commercially valuable, trade secret, market sensitive, proprietary, related to an SEC enforcement or examination matter, subject to privilege, protected by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. § 552a), or otherwise deemed confidential or non-public by an SEC division director or office head, and is not otherwise available to the public. This definition applies to confidential or non-public information in any form, including documents, electronic mail, computer files, conversations, and audio or video recordings. For purposes of this Agreement, examples of confidential or non-public information include corporate financial data provided to the SEC that has not been made public; SEC planned or contemplated courses of action regarding SEC examinations, investigations, and enforcement actions; and SEC personnel information covered by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a. B. I acknowledge that any conditional access to SEC confidential and non-public information granted to me is for the sole purpose of performing obligations under SEC Contract __________________ (the "underlying Contract"). This Agreement does not grant me access to information or materials that the SEC determines in its sole discretion is inappropriate for disclosure. C. I acknowledge that the SEC Regulation Concerning Conduct of Members and Employees and Former Members and Employees of the Commission expressly prohibits the improper use and unauthorized disclosure of confidential or non-public information or documents. See 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(1) & (b)(7) available at http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=17:2.0.1.1.1&idno=17. I agree to be bound by the prohibitions of § 200.735-3(b)(1) & (b)(7) and the terms set forth herein. I agree not to disclose to any unauthorized person any confidential or non-public documents or information to which I have access in the performance of duties under the underlying Contract. D. In accordance with the SEC Regulation at 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(1), I agree not to engage, directly or indirectly, in any personal business transaction or private arrangement for personal profit the opportunity for which arises because of my performance under the Contract, or that is based upon confidential or non-public information which I gain in the course of my performance under the Contract. E. In accordance with the SEC Regulation at 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(7)(i), I agree not to disclose to any unauthorized person or release in advance of authorization for its release, any confidential or non-public document or information : (1) protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. §§ 552, 552a, and 552b or any rules or regulations of the SEC; or (2) in circumstances where the SEC has determined to accord such information confidential treatment, unless the SEC authorizes the disclosure of such information as provided for under 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(7)(ii). Confidential and non-public information shall be shared with authorized persons only on a need-to-know basis. F. For purposes of this Agreement, an "unauthorized person" is anyone other than (1) an officer or employee of the SEC, (2) an employee of the prime contractor who has executed a non-disclosure agreement with the SEC under the Contract, (3) an employee of a subcontractor who has executed a non-disclosure agreement with the SEC under the Contract, and whose employer advises the prime contractor as such, or (4) SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 6

any individual that the Contracting Officer expressly designates as a person authorized to receive the confidential or non-public information at issue. G. I acknowledge that other federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to the following, may also prohibit the disclosure of confidential and non-public information received pursuant to the Contract: the Government Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. § 1905) (available at http://assembler.law.cornell.edu/uscode/html/uscode18/usc_sec_18_00001905----000-.html); 18 U.S.C. § 641 (theft of public property or records) (available at http://assembler.law.cornell.edu/uscode/html/uscode18/usc_sec_18_00000641----000-.html); Rule 122 (17 C.F.R. § 230.122) under the Securities Act of 1933 (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getcfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=230&SECTION=122&TYPE=PDF); Section 24(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 78x) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/sea34.pdf)and Rules 0-4 (17 C.F.R. § 240.0-4) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getcfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=0-4&TYPE=PDF), 10b-5 (17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/get-cfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=10b-5&TYPE=PDF), and 24b-2 (17 C.F.R. § 240.24b-2) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getcfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=240&SECTION=24b-2&TYPE=PDF), thereunder; Section 22(c) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. § 79y) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/puhca35.pdf) and Rule 104 thereunder (17 C.F.R. § 250.104) (available at http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/get-cfr.cgi?TITLE=17&PART=250&SECTION=104&TYPE=PDF); Section 45(a) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. § 80a-44) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/ica40.pdf); and Section 210(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. § 80b-10) (available at http://www.sec.gov/about/laws/iaa40.pdf). I am aware of such laws and regulations and agree to comply with the standards for protecting confidential and non-public information in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the specific information to which I have access. H. If there is doubt as to whether a document or information is confidential or non-public, or whether a proposed recipient of a document or information is an unauthorized person, I shall request clarification from the Contracting Officer. I. I acknowledge that I have read the SEC Regulations 17 C.F.R. § 200.735-3(b)(1) & (b)(7) and have referred any questions regarding those Regulations or this Agreement to the Contracting Officer. J. I acknowledge that disclosure of confidential or non-public information in violation of this agreement could subject me to administrative, civil, or criminal action, as appropriate, under the laws and regulations applicable to the information involved. Violation of this Agreement may also constitute a ground for termination of the Contractor's underlying Contract with the SEC, and/or suspension and debarment from receiving future federal contracts. I understand that the United States Government may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement, including but not limited to application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in violation of this Agreement. K. I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result, or may result from any personal business transaction inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or any disclosure, publication, or revelation of confidential or non-public information inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 6

L. Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should hold any provision of this Agreement unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. M. I acknowledge that all conditions and obligations created by this Agreement apply during the performance of the underlying SEC Contract and thereafter with respect to information that remains confidential or non-public.

Employee Name: Signature: Date:

___________________________ _________________________________ _________________________________

This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the SEC as a prior condition of conditional access to confidential and non-public information. _________________________________ SEC Representative ________________________ Date

MUST BE RETURNED TO LINDA BAIER PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF WORK

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 6

Table CaseStats

Fields Case_Number Case_Name File Count File Size Current_Copy_Partitions Space_Available Free_Space_was_Looked _up_on General_Problem Description Object Name Object Type Failure Reason Time Field1 Field2 Field3 Field4 Report Name Order Report Description Logoff SwitchboardID ItemNumber ItemText Command Argument ID First Name Last Name E-mail Adress Company Job Title Business Phone Home Phone Mobile Phone Fax Number Address City State/Province Postal Code Country/Region Web Page Notes

Comment

Copy-Partition-Info

Errors

Name AutoCorrect Save Failures

Paste Errors

Case# Case Name ? Numeric ? Numeric

Reports

Settings Switchboard Items

T_Contractor_Staff

Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty Empty

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 1

tbl_Delays

CEDD_ID Entered_by Processed_by LSS Issue_type Issue_type Issue_Date Effects_Machie Comments Notified_Support Notified_Support Date Resolution_Received Resolution_Received_Date Resolution_Received_Comments Resolution_Applied Resolution_Applied_Date Resolution_Applied_Comments ID POC1 POC2 LSS Case_Number Request_Date Process_Type Type_of_Data Type_of_Media Database_Name Source Prod_Date Deliver_Data_to Deduplicate Endorse Prefix Starting _Number Number_of_Digits Padding Example Special_Requirements Date_Completed Size_In Size_Out Start_Date Number_of_Records Number_of_Images BEGBATES ENDBATES Cricket_IP Comments BDMT_Req_ID CopytoLocation

tbl_Main

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 1

Priority Processed_by Submitted_to_Loading_Group CopyPath_updated_or_sent_to_IQA On_Hold ForensicTech QAd_by media-received-date media-returned-date original-media-returned copied_by qa-file-count qa-image-count qa-native-count qa-endorsements qa-lastbates-dat-opt qa-smallest-txtfile-matches-tiff qa-requestform-stats-updated qa-complete-date qa-lss-aware-of-any-issues qa-header-rows-in-datfile qa-returned-to-lss qa-returned-to-lss-signature qa-deleted-from-z qa-spec-requirements-met iqa-selected-by-isn iqa-error-found iqa-error-type qa-multipage-tiffs OIA_Data ZZZ_dbo_T_Case_Information Case_Code Case_Number Case_Name Primary_Staff_POC_Name Primary_Staff_POC_Phone Number Secondary_Staff_POC_Name Secondary_Staff_POC_Phone_Number Case_Priority Case_Comments Last_Update_Name Last_Update_Date Status ID POC1 POC2 LSS Case_Number Request_Date Process_Type

zzz_T_Status zzz-tbl_Main

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 1

Type_of_Data Type_of_Media Database_Name Source Prod_Date Deliver_Data_to Deduplicate Endorse Prefix Starting _Number Number_of_Digits Padding Example Special_Requirements Date_Completed Size_In Size_Out Start_Date Number_of_Records Number_of_Images BEGBATES ENDBATES Cricket_IP Comments BDMT_Req_ID CopytoLocation Priority Processed_by Submitted_to_Loading_Group Sub_to_LG_Comments CopyPath_updated_or_sent_to_IQA On_Hold ForensicTech QAd_by copied_by qa-file-count qa-image-count qa-native-count qa-endorsements qa-lastbates-dat-opt qa-smallest-txtfile-matches-tiff qa-requestform-stats-updated qa-complete-date qa-lss-aware-of-any-issues

SECHQ1-09-Q-9004 Atch 1

