<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSolicitation.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSolicitation.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS) November 2014 VISUAL INFORMATION SERVICES Non-Personal Services 1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES. The Contractor shall provide all equipment, tools, materials, personnel, training, supervision and other items and services necessary to perform Visual Information (VI) services at Keesler Air Force Base (KAFB), Mississippi (MS) as defined in this Performance Work Statement (PWS). 1.1. VISUAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT. The Contractor shall be responsible for providing custom VI products and services to KAFB and assigned associate units and units with which host/tenant and/or inter-service support agreements exist. This effort will include integrating the customers' pre-prepared text and other content and direction, from vague concepts to fully developed plans, with photography, videography, graphic design and illustration, into products and services that provide proactive and timely response to meeting Air Force (AF) commanders' needs to deliver a highly qualified, expeditionary-focused force, and champion the AF story. This scope of effort includes the requirement for the full range of intellectual resources required to analyze changing requirements, recommend, develop, and provide comprehensive solutions and products that meet the needs of a broad client base in a changing and dynamic multimedia development environment. The contractor is encouraged and expected to use innovative and unique approaches to efficiently and effectively accomplish the requirements outlined in this statement in a timely manner while maximizing Government benefit in a way that fosters pride in ownership of the work performed and promotes AF Core Values among the larger base and AF population they serve. The Contractor shall ensure all work orders meet the official work products and requirements identified in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-109, Visual Information, 12 Mar 10, and meet the standards of each individual work request to the customer's satisfaction as well as Public Affair's representatives. All products produced by the Contractor are the sole property of the Government and shall not be used or sold by the Contractor for any purpose. VI materials produced by the Contractor must and shall be kept within the bounds of propriety and good taste and not contain any illustrations, scenes, or language that would discredit the AF and subject it to public disfavor or ridicule. Production of more than three (3) copies of any product will be immediately forwarded to the Base Multimedia Manager (BMM) or Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) for approval or disapproval. The Contractor shall immediately forward questions on these policies to the BMM for resolution. 1.1.1. Electronic Imaging Equipment. In addition to providing VI products using traditional equipment, the Contractor shall also operate VI equipment and provide VI products using electronic imaging equipment. Electronic imaging equipment shall integrate the following capabilities: Graphics Imaging System (GIS), Digital Processing System (DPS), file server, and assorted video- and digital-based input/output devices. All these systems will be connected to a Local Area Network (LAN). The Electronic Imaging Center (EIC) will be capable of outputting

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 VI productions in hard copy, while being capable of delivering color graphics and still photo images in electronic storage devices and formats as required by customers for direct electronic projection systems. The DPS will also have the capability to electronically transmit and receive still photo imagery between other workstations, as well as the Air Force Public Affairs Agency's (AFPAA) AF Media Center and other remote locations as required by customers. 1.1.2. Visual Information Video Productions. Keesler Television (KETV) Studio is a Major Command (MAJCOM) and Local Video Production facility. The Contractor shall forward all requests received for video production to the BMM. Approved requests for MAJCOM and local production shall be documented in accordance with (IAW) AFI 35-109, Chapter 6 and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5040.07, 21 Feb 2013. The BMM is the KETV Manager. 1.1.3. Work Control. All work shall be documented based on a valid and properly completed work order: Department of Defense (DD) Form 1995, Visual Information Production Request and Report; AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt. This system shall provide for logging and tracking of all Keesler VI Service work orders, numbering them, and showing the status of each work order. Work requests requiring digital images products, such as photos, may be accepted by the customer with official e-mail digital signatures or a physically signed AF IMT 833, Multimedia Work Order (Block 26, Acceptor Information). These digital images shall be e-mailed to the customer, upon request, on the Keesler Network which requires all Contractor's customer service personnel to access the Keesler e-mail system (para 1.1.7.) for receipt of official digital signatures. 1.1.3.1. Official/Unofficial Work. AF VI resources, products, and services are Government property for official AF mission support and historical documentation only. Unofficial use of VI resources, or their products and services, is illegal, and violators are subject to prosecution. The Contractor shall not provide printing services and will comply with AFI 35-109, para 4.1.2. The Contractor shall not frame, laminate, and perimeter trim products that are not generated by the Keesler VI Service unless approved by the BMM or COR. The Contractor shall not create, duplicate or distribute permanent exterior signs (Civil Engineering (CE) item of issue), unauthorized forms/certificates, copyrighted or trademark material, unauthorized heraldry, scrapbooks or decorative items with no official use, or personal mementos or gifts. All multimedia requests will be IAW Department of Defense (DOD), AF, Air Education and Training Command (AETC), and KAFB instructions. 1.1.3.2. Photography, Video and Graphics. The Contractor shall ensure that photographic, video, and graphic work orders include a description of product(s) to include complexity level and the number of products requested. 1.1.3.3. Malfunctions. The Contractor shall remedy any malfunction of computers and/or software regardless of cause. The Contractor shall recover all data lost regardless of cause within one week and at the Contractor's expense. Contractor-provided computers must be compatible with Government computer systems.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.1.4. Central Delivery. The Contractor shall establish a central delivery pick-up point for graphics, photographic, and video production work. The delivery pick-up point shall be visually identified in a central location with immediate access for customers. The Contractor shall have the following sign prominently displayed at the central delivery and pick up area: "Air Force Visual Information resources, products, and services are Government property for official Air Force mission support and historical documentation only. Unofficial use of Visual Information resources, or their products and services, is illegal and violators are subject to prosecution. The Keesler Air Force Base Visual Information Service Center cannot provide printing services nor can the Keesler Visual Information Service create, duplicate or distribute permanent exterior signs (CE item of issue), unauthorized forms, copyrighted or trademark material, unauthorized heraldry, scrapbooks, decorative items with no official use, or personal mementos or gifts." 1.1.4.1. Work Orders. The Contractor shall not accept work orders which are incomplete, improperly prepared, or are not legible. It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure all applicable blocks are completed on both front and back of the AF IMT 833. The requester shall complete the front of AF IMT 833 while the Contractor shall be responsible for completing the back as appropriate. Separate series of work order numbers shall be used for graphics work orders and photographic and video work orders. Work orders shall be numbered sequentially, starting with 1-01, etc., to indicate calendar month and work order number so that, for instance, 7-01 would indicate the first work order for the month of July. Work orders containing several work requirements such as shoot, process, proof, and print shall count as one work order with one due date/time. Work orders are considered complete when the customer has been notified that work is ready for pick up. This is indicated by the Contractor in the blocks at the bottom section of the AF IMT 833. Requesters must specify the due date/time on the AF IMT 833, and all work must be completed on time. Work orders completed each week shall be kept separately grouped by type and work count taken. The Contractor shall submit the previous week's completed and numbered work orders by the second workday of each week. The Contractor shall forward completed, but not signed for, work orders to COR within five workdays of customer notification. The COR will return all completed work orders to the Contractor for maintaining Government-owned/Contractor held records after COR evaluation is completed. Work orders completed and delivered to customers each week shall be kept separately by type and a work count taken. 1.1.4.1.2. Work Order Priorities. All work orders received by the Contractor shall fall within one of the following priorities: (See Appendix C, Work Order Priorities, for the work order priority percentages as they relate to the technical complexity of the product or service.) Priority 01: Work of an emergency nature, when time is of the essence. Command directed tasking, aircraft accidents; accident investigation boards, intelligence collection, criminal investigations, and certain time sensitive PA material are examples of priority 01 work. Priority 01 work shall be accomplished without delay and will preempt all lower priority work.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 Priority 02: This shall be assigned to graphic work that requires quick turn-around and for the standard priority of photo support. Included is work requested by PA for internal or public release, public safety agencies (81st Security Forces Squadron (81 SFS), Fire Department, Safety, and Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI)), unit commanders, and products needed to support other work with time restraints. Priority 03: This shall apply to all other routine work that can be programmed in advance or on a recurring basis. Priority 04: This shall apply to all complex video production, some publication art, some 2D displays/exhibits and all 3D displays/exhibits. Work will be performed on first in ­ first out basis, unless otherwise designated by the BMM or COR. Response times will vary depending upon the complexity of the request and required date. 1.1.4.2. Schedule of Work. The estimated quantities of work and the required delivery suspense and priority designations are listed in Appendices C and D. 1.1.5. Personnel. 1.1.5.1. Contract Manager. The Contractor shall assign a dedicated, full-time, contract manager who shall be responsible for the performance of the work. The contract manager shall plan, direct, and review all phases of work and ensure compliance with contract requirements. Written notification of the name, address, and home telephone number of the contract manager and alternate(s) who will act for the Contractor whenever the contract manager is absent shall be provided to the Contracting Officer (CO) by the contract start date. Changes to names, addresses, or telephone numbers that occur thereafter must also be submitted. The contract manager and alternate(s) must be able to read, write, speak, and understand English. The contract manager and alternate(s) must understand Government and military acronyms (See Appendix A, Acronyms), definitions, technical terminology, publications, and forms consistent with administration of this contract. 1.1.5.1.1. Contract Manager's Authority. The contract manager or alternate(s) shall have full authority to act for the Contractor on all contract matters relating to daily operation of this contract. 1.1.5.1.2. Availability of Contract Manager. The contract manager or alternate(s) shall be available to meet on the installation with Government personnel designated by the CO within 30 minutes of notification during normal duty hours if the need arises. After normal duty hours, the manager or designated alternate(s) shall be available within two hours of notification. 1.1.5.2. Employees. All Contractor personnel having contact with customers must be able to read, write, speak, and understand English. 1.1.5.3. Employee Attire. Contractor personnel shall be properly attired and present a neat and clean appearance (considered to include the wearing of any required protective apparel and/or safety equipment) and be easily recognized. This shall be accomplished by wearing

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 distinctive clothing bearing the name of the company or by wearing appropriate badges that contain the company name and employee name. The badge shall be worn on the front outer clothing, between the neck and waist, and be visible at all times while the employee is performing work under this contract. On special occasions (such as Dining In, etc.), photographers and/or videographers may be required to wear coat and tie, or equivalent clothing for females. 1.1.5.4. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for Safety and Health of employees. All applicable Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards shall be complied with. In the event of injury, the Contractor shall immediately notify the contract administrator. 1.1.5.5. Conflict of Interest. The Contractor shall not employ any person who is an employee of the United States Government if the employment of that person would create a conflict of interest nor shall the Contractor employ any person who is an employee of the Department of the AF, either military or civilian, unless such person seeks and receives approval IAW applicable Department of Defense (DoD) regulations. 1.1.5.6. Military Personnel. The Contractor is cautioned that off-duty active military personnel hired under this contract may be subject to permanent change of station (PCS), change in duty hours, or deployment. Military Reservists and National Guard members may be subject to recall to active duty. The abrupt absence of these personnel could adversely affect the Contractor's ability to perform. Their absence at any time shall not constitute an excuse for non-performance under this contract. 1.1.6. Hours of Operation. 1.1.6.1. Normal Hours. The Contractor shall maintain the following customer service hours: 8:00 a.m. (0800) to 4:00 p.m. (1600) ­ Monday through Friday 1.1.6.2. Federal Holidays. The Contractor is not required to provide routine service on the following days: New Year's Day Martin Luther King's Birthday Presidents' Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veterans' Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day

1.1.6.3. Whenever a Federal holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed; and whenever a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed. 1.1.6.4. Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to relieve the Contractor from the obligation to provide alert photography services at times other than the normal hours of operation of the still photographic laboratory.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.1.6.5. After Hours Facilities Use. The Contractor shall inform the building manager when Contractor personnel, other than alert photographers and videographers, will be at the on base Contractor-operated facility other than during its normal hours of operation, unless the time is within 30 minutes before or 30 minutes after normal operating hours. This notification shall occur before the work is performed. 1.1.6.6. Non-Duty Hours. The Contractor shall provide non-duty hour services up to 250 hours for each contract period. The Contractor shall ensure that non-duty hours are allocated in Videography, Photography, and Graphics. The Contractor shall maintain a log of all non-duty hours, which shall include, as a minimum, the following: a. Date and time of assignment b. Name of requester, organization and phone number c. Purpose (i.e., Alert, etc.) d. Total time of assignment e. Name of certifying official 1.1.6.7. A copy of the non-duty hour log shall be provided to COR as part of the end of month reports package. The Contractor shall notify the CO through the COR when 85 percent of the allotted non-duty hours have been accomplished. 1.1.6.8. Emergency Services. On occasion, services may be required to support an activation or exercise of contingency plans outside the normal duty hours described above. The Contractor's responsibilities for emergency support are described in para 1.7.3.17. ­ 1.7.3.26. 1.1.7. Official Communications. 1.1.7.1. On all correspondence, the Contractor shall use the appropriate address as provided by local direction (Information Management). 1.1.8. Automatic Data Processing/Graphics Imaging System. 1.1.8.1. Computer programs used on the Government network by the Contractor for providing services under the terms of this contract must be approved by the 81st Communications Squadron, 81CS/SCO. 1.1.8.2. Government staff shall have access to any program on Government-furnished computer systems. 1.1.8.3. The contents of programs created on Government computers or Contractor computers become the property of the Government.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.1.8.4. The Contractor shall maintain and perform a daily back up of all newly created computer generated files and a weekly back up of the hard drive. 1.1.8.5. All Government-furnished programs and all Contractor-supplied disks used for providing services under the terms of this contract shall be turned over to the Government staff at the termination of the contract. 1.1.8.6. Government Observations. Other Government personnel, such as Inspectors General, Fire Department, Safety, building inspectors, or higher headquarters staff are authorized to observe Contractor operation. However, these personnel may not interfere with Contractor performance. 1.2. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES. The Contractor shall provide all administrative services necessary to perform VI as defined in this PWS. 1.2.1. Data Submissions. The Contractor shall provide all invoices, reports, forms, and other correspondence listed at Appendix G, Required Documentation and Reports Data, at the time and frequency and in the number of copies specified therein, and ensure the data submitted is complete, accurate, and on white paper. The Contractor also shall ensure all copies are legible, neat and delivered to arrive at the office of the addressee on the workday and time by which they are required to be submitted. 1.2.2. High Interest Photography. The Contractor shall screen all photography accomplished. Submit original still photography of subjects or events that may be considered of permanent interest to the AF after approval by the PA Officer and/or BMM, as required by DoD directives and AF instructions. Submissions will be done weekly IAW AFI 35-109, Visual Information, 12 Mar 10, para 8.8.2.1. A fully explained negative response shall be submitted to the BMM. 1.2.3. Motion Media Records Center Submissions. The Contractor shall screen all video documentaries accomplished and submit material that may be considered of permanent interest to the AF to the PA Officer. 1.2.4. Monthly Usage Reports. 1.2.4.1. Squadron-Level Usage Reports. The Contractor shall submit a monthly report (included with the work order turn in on the first week of the new month) of all designated reimbursable work requests to include: name, rank, and unit of requester, type and amount of work, amount of material expended, number of hours required to accomplish the work, and total estimated cost of work accomplished. 1.2.4.2. Host/Tenant and Inter-service Support Agreements. The Contractor shall submit a monthly report (included with the work order turn in on the first week of the new month) of all designated reimbursable host/tenant or inter-service work requests to include: name, rank, and unit of requester, type and amount of work, amount of material expended, number of hours required to accomplish the work, and total estimated cost of work accomplished.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.2.5. Customer Complaint Form. The Contractor shall answer all customer complaints registered on the customer complaint form, in writing and return all original copies to the COR within three workdays after receipt. The Contractor shall have the following sign prominently displayed at the central delivery and pick up area: "NOTICE TO ALL VISUAL INFORMATION SERVICES CUSTOMERS. If service is being refused for any reason or is unacceptable (i.e., photo, graphics, or video) from the Contractor, Customer Complaint Record is available for addressing issues. These forms are available through the COR office in rooms 201A or 224, Bldg. 0902 (Wall Studio), or you may call extension (228) 377-8734 or 2793 / DSN 597- to discuss the problem and get assistance from a COR in handling the complaint." 1.3. ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL. The Contractor shall comply with all Federal, State, local, and Air Force environmental regulations for the storing, handling, and disposing of industrial hazardous waste materials. 1.4. FACILITIES MAINTENANCE. The Contractor shall maintain the facility in a neat and orderly condition. Problems with the Contractor facility in Building 0902, Wall Studio should be addressed to the facility manager. 1.5. LIGHT BULBS. The Contractor shall furnish to the Facility Manager all burned out light bulbs in all Contractor work areas of Building 0902 for proper storage and disposal. 1.6. GRAPHICS SERVICES. The Contractor shall provide color and black & white graphic arts support to include the design and creation of technical and scientific illustrations, charts, graphics, viewgraphs, diagrams, cartoon illustrations, and other artwork for managerial, operational, training, educational, motivational, website, and administrative purposes. Electronic imaging will be used for the majority of these products. The Contractor shall also provide design and production of other graphic products such as posters, displays, exhibits, and temporary or interior signs. Graphic support shall only be accomplished for classroom use and/or mission essential job requests only as determined by the BMM or COR. Graphics personnel must maintain all records of job-hours, products produced, purpose and justification of jobs as stated on AF IMT 833, Multimedia Work Order. These forms are loaded into a data tracking system. 1.6.1. Graphics Products. The Contractor shall: 1.6.1.1. Design and construct status charts and wall charts as identified in Appendix D based on AF IMT 833 work orders. Charts are normally computer generated. Assemble charts and briefing charts with a cover sheet and mount on cardboard, illustration board, or foam core. Charts may be required to be laminated using Contractor-provided laminator capable of laminating a minimum of 36 inches wide. Charts over 35.5 inches wide by 96 inches long will be paneled. Each panel on an oversize chart will receive a work count of one (1). The Contractor-furnished laminator shall meet the requirements of para B.3.5. of this PWS.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.6.1.2. Design and letter or engrave signs by hand (brush, airbrush, markers, silk-screen, etc.) or machine (engraver, vinyl cutter, computer, etc.) as identified in Appendix D based on AF IMT 833 work orders. Signs may also include artwork such as emblems, illustrations, etc. Contractor shall not produce permanent exterior signs. 1.6.1.3. Design, construct, and letter posters, non-CE maps, and calendars, as identified in Appendix D based on AF IMT 833 work orders. Construct as required on paper, illustration board, card stock, vinyl coated Styrofoam, plastic panels, wood, and metal in size and quantity established by requester. 1.6.1.4. Design, construct, and letter displays/exhibits as identified in Appendix D based on AF IMT 833 work orders. Construct, as required, on paper, illustration board, card stock, vinyl coated Styrofoam, plastic panels, wood, and metal in size and quantity established by requester. Displays/exhibits will range from tabletop and wall to elaborate freestanding functions including 2- and 3-dimensional designs. This is a controlled item and shall only be accomplished after approval by the BMM or COR. 1.6.1.5. Render custom computer graphics, drawings, and animation, including but not limited to 3-dimensional designs in support of technical training (i.e. IMI Interactive Multimedia Instruction Graphics for 81 TRSS/TSUI) and wing level requirements. The 81st TRSS Instructional Technology Unit (ITU) will produce routine products using in-house personnel, computers and software. Contractor shall support the ITU for more complicated/professional graphics, including 3D animation, when required by the ITU. Complicated/professional graphics shall be defined as computer-generated drawings, graphics and animations, including but not limited to 3-dimensional designs/products. 1.6.1.6. Support retirement certificates for active duty and appropriated funded Government civilian personnel. Provide nameplates for classrooms and/or Wing level and above only. This is a controlled item and shall be accomplished only after approval by the BMM or COR. 1.6.1.7. Design, construct, and letter emblems, decals and labels as identified in Appendix C based on AF IMT 833 work orders. The Contractor shall provide camera-ready masters only for emblems requiring mass production. Decals shall be constructed in a manner for simple transfer and long lasting adhesion. Emblems must conform to specific standards of design and color, as specified in AF Heraldic Instructions. Emblems shall be done on paper, illustration board, foam core, expanded plastic panel, wood, and metal, using various methods (hand construction/completion, photographs, engraved, large format print, cut vinyl, etc.). 1.6.1.8. Design and produce illustrations for subsequent inclusion in printed publications as identified in Appendix D based on AF IMT 833 work orders. Computer illustrations will be compatible with and formatted to meet Government requirements. Illustrations shall be in black and white or color, in four (4) color and single color formats or on computer disk. The Contractor shall be responsible for all illustrations submitted for all resident and Career Development Course (CDC) material. The Contractor shall provide illustrations compatible with and formatted to the Course Development & Student Administration Record-Keeping System (CDSAR) computer requirements in encapsulated postscript format (EPS). Illustrations

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 produced for CDC and resident course requirements shall be of high quality and in the sizes and format requested. 1.6.1.9. Have the capability for printing illustrations from computer disks for resident courses and sending computer disks with illustrations to the Extension Course Institute (ECI) at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, for inclusion in CDCs. All computer disks sent by the Contractor from KAFB to ECI will be color coded with a red label. 1.6.1.10. Maintain computer-generated products on removable media (i.e., CD, DVD, External Hard Drive), or other large capacity disk as file art. These disks will become the property of the Government. 1.6.1.11. Scan documents and convert them to a Portable Document Format (PDF) using Contractor-furnished GIS and Contractor-furnished software (Adobe Acrobat) as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. Scan text documents, perform Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the documents using Contractor-furnished GIS and Contractor-furnished software (Omni Page Pro or equal) and convert the document to a Microsoft Word format. For document scans, each page scanned and converted will receive a work count of one (1). 1.6.1.12. Provide copies of file art in PDF, Encapsulated Postscript (EPS), Tagged Image File Format (TIFF), Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG), .doc, bitmap (BMP), Windows Metafile (WMF), or Adobe Illustrator (AI) format to customers who furnish disk(s) appropriate for transfer as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. Individual illustrations will be counted when transfer is accomplished. If an entire disk is transferred with no change, unit count is only one. 1.6.1.13. Accomplish lettering as requested or required as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. Unit count for lettering may be taken only when the finished product cannot be attributed to a specific product line or when it is not a component of a more complex product such as lettering on windows, doors, or customer- provided materials that require lettering only. 1.6.1.14. Prepare text for unique printing requirements as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. Writers and instructors prepare text for instruction books. However, both the command section and several other offices will require desktop publishing design services and text setting. 1.6.1.15. Design, construct, and letter banners and similar items (flags, legends, mottos, etc.) as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. Construct, as required, on paper, cloth, or vinyl. This is a controlled item and shall only be accomplished after approval by the BMM or COR. 1.6.1.16. Lamination and/or mounting shall only be accomplished for classroom use and/or Wing level and above job requests only. Caution customers requesting lamination of items that were not accomplished as a graphic or photographic work item of the inherent danger of heat damage to the original product during the lamination process. The Contractor shall use due care when laminating any item but shall not be responsible for lamination damage to customerprovided items, provided that due care was used. This is a controlled item and shall be accomplished only after approval by the BMM or COR.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.6.1.17. Mount graphic products onto foam core, illustration board, or other similar substrate as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. The graphic product mounted shall be free from wrinkles, bubbles, etc. Due to the relative high humidity in the local area, the Contractor shall provide a vacuum mounting system to ensure an adequate bond of the materials being mounted. 1.6.1.18. Apply perimeter edge trim to items mounted on foam core or substrates 3/16 inches thick, as identified in AF IMT 833 work orders. The Contractor shall furnish an edge trim system and edging materials in black, white, silver, and gold. The Contractor-furnished system shall meet the requirements of Appendix B of this PWS. 1.7. PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES AND PRODUCTS. The Contractor shall provide photographic services as requested on AF IMT 833. All photographic services shall be for OFFICIAL USE ONLY (reference para 1.21.5.). When work requires electronic methodology, image acquisition shall be accomplished using a digital camera system for the majority of EIC still photographic requirements. The COR maintain samples of completed still photography, indicating quality of work. Due to the complexity of this service and the fast changing technical advancements, the Contractor shall not employ any entry-level photographers. 1.7.1. Photographic Products. Contract personnel will provide premier photographic services and products that exemplify the highest current industry and Air Force standards. Contract personnel will provide photography products according to customer requirements which meet customer expectations and COR approved quality standards Provide premier photographic services and products that exemplify the highest current industry and Air Force standards. Performance Standards are included in para 2, Service Summary. All photographic products delivered to customers shall be clear, sharply focused, free from surface defects, such as streaks, dust spots, stains, and acceptably lighted/exposed, and meet the customers' requirements. Product response times and estimated frequencies are listed in Appendix C, Work Order Priorities. 1.7.2. Digitally Produced Prints. Digitally produced products to be delivered to customers will be continuous tone color prints (2x2 up to 11x14). Digitized photo imagery will also be provided in various forms of data storage devices and file formats. 1.7.3. Photographic Services. Photographic services include scheduling location photography and providing studio, location, alert/emergency, copy, digital, and miscellaneous photography. Examples may include, Wing quarterly or annual awards, special duty, Wing mission briefings and required biography photos. The following restrictions apply: Award Portraits: Wing level and above only Chain-of-Command Portraits: Wing level and above unless approved by 81 TRW/PA Commanders Calls: Wing level and above only Group Photos: Wing level award winners and above, or squadrons with the base historian's certification that their squadron photo has a historical nature. Requestors must provide names and ranks for all individuals in the group. Self-help cameras will be provided for all others. Special Base Events. Products documenting official base ceremonies. Support is

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1
dependent upon photographer availability and the following restrictions: Graduations: NCOA, ALS and CCAF only Induction/Recognition Ceremonies: NCO, SNCO, Chief and Outstanding Airmen of the Year Ceremony only Retirement Ceremonies: Chief or Colonel and above only Promotion Ceremonies: Chief or Colonel and above only Change of Command Ceremonies: Wing officiated level & above. Awards Ceremonies: Wing level and above, i.e.. Hennessey Award, Daedalians Award Medal Presentations: Purple Heart and above; must be requested for coverage Order of the Sword

1.7.3.1. Location Photography. The Contractor shall ensure photographers are present for location photography appointments 10 minutes prior to the date and time requested by the customers, unless otherwise specified on the AF IMT 833. The Government will normally notify (either orally or in writing) the Contractor of requirements for location photography at least 48 hours in advance; however, this is not always possible. On occasion, the Contractor may receive an hour or less notification of a location photography assignment, which shall be considered a Priority 01. Typical short notice requirements are for emergency situations and accidents. Location photography requests shall only be accomplished for Wing level events or above. All other requirements will be accomplished by in-house digital cameras of the Squadron or Flight. Prints for other than Wing level events and above shall be the responsibility of the requester. 1.7.3.2. Simultaneous Locations. The Contractor shall honor requests on a "first come-first serve basis." Location photographers shall use Contractor-furnished transportation. Conflicting schedules for location support shall be forwarded to the BMM or COR for resolution. 1.7.3.3. Official Work. Contractor shall adhere to AFI 35-109, para 2.2. The Contractor shall not disapprove or refuse to accomplish any work order request. Work considered unofficial, unauthorized, or beyond the scope of the contract shall be immediately forwarded to the BMM or COR for resolution. Any unofficial, unauthorized, or beyond-contract scope work performed by the Contractor without Government approval shall not be counted as production by the Government. 1.7.3.4. After-Duty Hour Assignments. Contractor shall provide photographer(s) for scheduled after-duty hour assignments. The Contractor shall contact requester and ascertain appropriate attire for the event (i.e., dining in, formal dress, etc.). 1.7.3.5. Studio Photography. Provide portrait photography services Monday through Thursday from 0900-1400 hours. Contractor may schedule studio photography by appointment or walk- in service. Typical requirements are for passport application photographs, citizenship application photographs, special duty application photographs, Search and Rescue (SAR) identification photographs, and special interest photographs. Information to be included on the photographs shall be IAW instructions provided on the AF IMT 833. 1.7.3.6. Digital Photography and all Department of Army (DA) Promotion Photography. The Contractor shall upload DA photos to the Department of the Army Photo Management

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 Information System (DAPMIS) web site. The Contractor shall provide the majority of studio photography in a digital format. The Contractor-furnished GIS must be compatible with GFE. 1.7.3.7. General Officers and Non-AF DoD Record Photography. The size, pose, number of photographs, information to be included on the photograph(s) shall be IAW AF and DoD directives. The Contractor must notify the customer when prints are ready and have customer or customer's representative approve the prints. If the customer, for subjective reasons, rejects portraits, the Contractor shall grant one additional sitting, and no more. However, if the retake was due to technical problems (i.e., poor or insufficient lighting, etc.), additional sittings shall be authorized until the problem is resolved. 1.7.3.8. Official Passport Photographs. The Contractor shall provide instant passport photography. All passport photographs shall be cut and delivered to the customer at the time of the request. Subjects shall be photographed head-on to the camera against a white shadowless background. Flat lighting shall be used. Prints shall be 2x2 inches overall on a non-glossy surface on film that is acceptable to the US Passport Office. The image must measure not less than 1 inch, or more than 1-3/8 inches from the bottom of the chin to the top of the hair. 1.7.3.9. Citizenship Photographs. The Contractor shall provide instant photography to meet this requirement. Requirements are the same as for passport photography. 1.7.3.10. SAR Identification Photographs. The Contractor shall provide instant photography to meet this requirement. A front and side view shall be taken of each subject. Flat lighting shall be used. Prints shall be 2x2 inches overall. 1.7.3.11. Special Duty Assignment Photographs. Size, pose, number of prints and information to be included on the, photograph, if any, shall be IAW information provided by the Military Personnel Flight on AF IMT 833. If the customer for subjective reasons rejects photographs, the Contractor shall grant one additional sitting, and no more. Digital or instant photography shall be used when size permits. The background and the foreground shall be one continuous tone without any break (i.e., seamless paper shall be used entirely for the background and foreground). 1.7.3.12. PA Photography. The Contractor shall provide professional photographic support to the base PA Office, who employs photojournalism techniques of storytelling images through composition, lighting, decisive moment, and other accepted standards as currently displayed in national magazines and newspapers. Photojournalism is required to interpret story lines furnished by PA specialist and provide creative photographs to enhance the accompanying article/website and sizing photos for newspaper layout and PA requirements. Since the PA mission often needs multiple or simultaneous photographic support, the Contractor shall be responsible for assignment of other contract photographers to cover all PA imagery requirements. 1.7.3.13. The Contractor shall adhere to guidelines for photographic imagery release IAW AFI 35-109, para 3.3.2.1. which requires parents or legal guardians to sign the DD Form 2830, prior to using minors' images in the base newspaper or on the Keesler web site. The Contractor shall

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 be responsible for loading photos to AF Public Information Management System (AFPIMS), by giving each photo its own Visual Information Record Identification Number (VIRIN) number and entering photo cut-line, catch line and category, and other necessary information and approving them. 1.7.3.14. VI Product Data Caption. The Contractor's photojournalist providing PA support will provide the PA office with photograph captions (cut lines), to include the name, rank, and organization of all individuals in the photographs and basic description of the action (Who? What? When? Where? Why?). The PA Officer requires that the photojournalist record names of the persons in photographs, their job titles, and duty extensions and a brief description of what the people in the photograph are doing. An assignment is not complete unless cut lines accompany photos to appear in the Keesler News, or external news release. 1.7.3.15. Historical Submissions. All photographic products generated by the PA photojournalist and by the base photo lab will be reviewed for historical submission by the PA photojournalist. Submit original still photography of subjects or events that may be considered of permanent interest to the AF after approval by the PA Officer and/or BMM, as required by AFI 35-109. 1.7.3.16. Weekly PA Work Order. All photographic products generated by the PA photographer(s) will first be documented by a PA Officer on a Contractor-provided, Government-approved assignment form. These forms will be attached to the blanket AF IMT 833 work order filled out by PA and submitted weekly to the COR. 1.7.3.17. Alert/Emergency Photographer. The Contractor shall provide an alert photographer IAW AFI 35-109, para 4.2.2., who shall keep SFS and Command Post informed of their location at all times. This can be accomplished by means of a Contractor-provided cell phone, pager, or other reliable method. The phone number of the device shall be provided at the start of contract performance to SFS for notification of alert photography duties. An alert photographer will only be called under the following circumstances: personal injury (i.e., child abuse), domestic assaults, and suicide attempts w/injury, rape, and damage to Government/private property in excess of $10,000.00. SFS will provide details of the incident or the requester's name and telephone number. The Contractor shall also respond to requests from the Wing Commander who may contact the alert photographer directly. The Contractor shall ensure the alert photographer is present, unless otherwise directed by the CO within 10 minutes of call during work hours and within 45 minutes of call during non-work hours, with adequate photographic equipment and supplies to photograph, in color, the following: SFS law enforcement activities; Flying or ground safety accidents or incidents; disasters, fires, flood or other natural disasters; other emergencies requiring immediate photographic documentation; photography as required by the commander or his designated representative. NOTE: THIS INCLUDES LAST MINUTE, FAST BREAKING NEWS EVENTS AS IDENTIFIED BY THE PA OFFICE. ALERT PHOTOGRAPHER RESPONSE TIME IS CALCULATED FROM THE FIRST ATTEMPT AT NOTIFICATION (CALL) TO THE ACTUAL ARRIVAL OF THE ALERT PHOTOGRAPHER AT THE LOCATION REQUIRED.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.7.3.18. Emergency Situations. An emergency situation is defined as any situation where the Disaster Control Group is assembled and the alert photographer is required. The situation can be aircraft accident, civil disturbance, natural disaster (volcano fall-out, earthquake or weather related), ground accidents, or enemy hostilities. The priority assigned to work is Priority 1. 1.7.3.19. Requirements. Upon notification of a Disaster Control, the alert photographer shall arrange for transportation with the requester (Safety, Disaster Preparedness, or SFS) if the assembly point/scene is in a controlled area. If the scene is not in a controlled area, the photographer will proceed directly to the scene. The alert photographer shall ascertain the scope of the situation and notify the Contract Manager for possible recall of additional personnel for photographing the scene or for printing duties. The photographer shall take the proper and sufficient amount of equipment and supplies to the scene. 1.7.3.20. Photographer's Actions. Upon arrival at the scene, the photographer shall report to the On-Scene Commander. No photos shall be taken until the photographer reports to the Commander. The On-Scene Commander shall direct the photographer to the Safety Officer in the case of an aircraft or ground accident or the Disaster Preparedness Officer in the case of other disasters for photographic tasking. The photographer shall take directions only from these individuals. 1.7.3.21. Additional Contractor Actions Required. The photographer shall report to the On-Scene Commanders representative and brief the representative on all the photographs taken. The photographer shall remain at the scene until dismissed. In the event additional photographs are requested by other agencies on the scene, the photographer shall notify the point of contact (POC) and then accomplish the photographs only on the permission of the POC. The photographer shall not discuss the incident with civilian news media or anyone else that is not part of the Disaster Control Force. All requests for information or photographs shall be directed to the Wing Commander/PA representative. All products shall be considered as FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY, unless appropriate authority classifies the photo. All prints shall be forwarded to the Office of Prime Responsibility (OPR), the Safety Office for Mishap Investigation, or the Disaster Preparedness Office for disasters. Any other office requiring copies of the photographs must request the photographs from the OPR. No photographs shall be released to the PA Office until the photographs have been cleared by the OPR. If immediate printing is required, the alert photographer shall notify the project manager for printing assistance. The OPR shall be notified as soon as the proofs are ready for viewing. The Contractor shall be responsible for the delivery of the proof sheets to the OPR. The OPR may request that projection prints be printed at this time. These prints shall be accomplished as a Priority 1 work request. If additional Contractor personnel have not already been recalled, personnel may be recalled at this time to meet the suspense. Contractor personnel shall not leave the Contractor facility until the work is completed and the OPR relieves them. 1.7.3.22. Alert Work Orders. Emergency requests for the alert photographer do not require immediate submission of a work order. However, the Contractor shall not release the finished products to the requester until properly certified on an AF IMT 833.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.7.3.23. Alert Priority. Unless otherwise instructed by the requester, all "emergency" alert photography requirements shall be completed within 24 hours. 1.7.3.24. Alert Roster. Five workdays prior to the start of every new month, the Contractor shall submit to the Keesler Medical Center, SFS, Command Post, and the COR a list of alert photographers' names and telephone numbers. Instructions included in this report shall be as follows: The SFS is to telephone the photographer listed as being on call for that period. If there is no answer, the instructions will next direct the SFS to call either the Contractor-provided cell phone number or the Contractor supervisor whose number is also listed. If the cell phone service is used and no response is received within 15 minutes, the SFS will call the listed supervisor. 1.7.3.25. Alert Call Log. The Contractor shall log all alert calls or alert exercise calls. The log shall indicate date and time of receiving call; name, rank, telephone number, and office symbol of requester for alert photography; name and on-scene arrival time of alert photographer, and name of on-scene POC. This log will be available to the Government at all times. 1.7.3.26. Emergency/Storm Duty. Provide the Command Post/Logistics Readiness Center with photographic personnel to support emergencies or natural disasters such as hurricanes. Contractor personnel may be required to shelter on base or be transported with the Rapid Response Team to another military installation until instructed to return to KAFB. Contractor personnel shall work at the express direction of the BMM and COR. 1.7.3.27. Other Photography. The Contractor shall provide photography of exhibits for reports, defective equipment, and other material not previously mentioned which requires special setups to properly light and portray the subject matter. Detail is usually of paramount importance. 1.7.4. Video/Audio Production. All video work will be FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (reference para 1.1.4.1.) and only for Wing level and/or Tech Training. Contractor video personnel shall coordinate all production work with the BMM (KETV Manager). As KETV Manager, the BMM will not instruct the Contractor staff on how to accomplish the video production. However, it is the inherent duty of the BMM to prioritize the workflow and accomplishment of work in the studio proper. Services to support the audiovisual (AV) production will be required at various sites, on and off base, as well as in the on-base studio. Services will primarily be performed during normal duty hours 0700 to 1600 and occasionally on weekends and after regular hours to meet program requirements. 1.7.4.1. Products and Services. The Contractor shall be responsible for providing AV products and services to include those described herein. The purpose for the AV production process is to write and produce instructional and motivational programs to meet the requirements of a wide range of customers. Subject matter includes but is not limited to: 1.7.4.2. Technical. Electronics and electromechanical concepts, circuits, radio, radar, computer, avionics; operating and maintenance techniques, personnel and administrative procedures, and practice and instructional methodology.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.7.4.3. Estimated quantities of work are listed in Appendix D, Workload Estimates. The COR maintain samples of completed video, indicating an acceptable quality of work. AF VI resources are Government property for official mission support and historical documentation meeting the guidelines of the National Archive and Records Administration (NARA). Unofficial use of VI resources, or their products and services, is illegal and violators are subject to prosecution. Unofficial use by military personnel violates Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and may result in punitive action under the UCMJ. Unofficial use by civilian personnel may result in administrative or other disciplinary action under applicable civilian personnel regulations or instructions. The customer's signature on the bottom of the AF IMT 833 certifies that the products requested are official. 1.7.4.4. Advice, Assistance and Searches. The Contractor shall provide advice and assistance on current video production materials, methods, equipment, and choice of media and facilities available to user organizations. The Contractor shall request that the BMM accomplish title and subject searches for proposed new productions. The BMM will then determine the existence of any similar video productions in the DoD libraries. 1.7.4.5. Request for Production. All video production work performed by the Contractor shall be based on a valid and properly approved DD Form 1995, Visual Information (VI) Production Request and Report IAW AFI 35-109, para 6.4, and DoDI 5040.07, Visual Information (VI) Productions, 21 Feb 13. A "Closed Caption" compliance letter is required IAW Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) part 1194 Section 508 if it is requested by handicapped individuals. The Contractor shall not begin work on any production until the DD Form 1995 and Section 508 compliance letter are submitted and approved by the BMM. The BMM will assign a production number to all valid video requests. Contractor video personnel shall work with the BMM to prioritize the order of work on video productions. Requests approved for local and MAJCOM productions shall be documented IAW AFI 35-109, Chapter 6. 1.7.4.6. Work Control System. All scheduling and priority of requested video productions will be determined by the BMM. The Contractor video supervisor will meet as needed with the BMM to determine studio capability. The Contractor shall establish and maintain a computerized work order control system (para 1.1.4. - 1.1.4.2. of this PWS). This system shall provide for logging, numbering and showing status of each work order. Work orders are considered complete when the customer and 81 TRW/PA reviews the production and signifies acceptance by signing the work order as completed. The Contractor shall identify local and MAJCOM productions separately. Videographers must maintain all records of job-hours, products produced, purpose and justification of jobs as stated on AF IMT 833. These forms are loaded into a data tracking system. 1.7.4.7. Project Files. For each production, the Contractor shall maintain a project file containing the original work request (DD Form 1995), Section 508 Compliance Letter for closed captioning, final script, talent release, status reports and related correspondence. Project files for completed productions or any productions identified in the tape library by AETC as obsolete shall be removed. Removed media will be reported to the COR in writing.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.7.4.8. Documentation. A short or simple shoot is the process of videotaping events such as lectures or seminars. The event typically only requires one videographer and needs minimal, if any, editing. The Contractor shall provide Visual Information Documentation (VIDOC) Program services to include classroom or lecture recordings. 1.7.4.9. Video Compression Services. Video compression services include encoding and transcoding video and audio from one format to another to include customer provided VHS tapes, etc., video capture to computer disk, and writing computer files to CD, DVD or for web application. 1.7.4.10. KETV PA Programming. The Contractor shall produce "fast" (newsworthy) video productions for the local cable Commanders Access Television Channel (CAC) channel 14. These productions will be aired on the CAC 14 as determined by the PA officer. Furthermore, these productions will consist of Keesler events (change of command, parades, etc.) human interest stories, (i.e., a day in the life of Security Forces patrol), local events of interest to Keesler personnel, military news, and others events as determined by PA. Each story in and of itself could be considered of average complexity. These productions and all associated programming on CAC 14 are included in Appendix C with the listing for PA/CAC Fast Productions. 1.7.4.11. General Information. The diversity of requesting agencies and the broad range of subject material require that the Contractor interface with a number of agencies to achieve the close coordination required developing an AV product. Much of the information presented in an AV production requires very innovative production techniques to adapt the requesting agencies material to media. Subject material should develop logically in conjunction with accepted educational and informational practices. Within the limitations of specific media, equipment, personnel, and workload the Contractor shall develop imaginative and interesting AV products that effectively convey the necessary information or accomplish learning objectives. Due to the complexity of this service, the Contractor shall provide only highly skilled and technically competent personnel to perform these services. Non-availability of highly skilled and competent personnel will not excuse the Contractor's performance. 1.7.4.12. Priority Control. As manager of KETV, the BMM will control production priorities. The control and daily internal scheduling of production work by Contractor personnel shall be the responsibility of the Contractor. The BMM will monitor production progress and approve major priority schedule and delivery date changes. 1.7.4.13. Validation. As manager of KETV, the BMM shall be responsible for the validation of requirements for production support. The Contractor shall provide consultation service and coordination with the BMM and requester to discuss the feasibility, milestone dates, and estimated completion dates prior to acceptance of the authorized work order. 1.7.4.14. Review and Acceptance. The authorized requester and/or technical advisor will schedule availability of Government personnel required to review and accept final AV products. Before final acceptance, all video productions must be coordinated through the PA office for security and policy review. The authorized requester or technical advisor will sign the work order (DD Form 1995) certifying acceptance. If the product is unacceptable, the requester or the

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 technical advisor will provide the Contractor with a written reason for the rejection and the Contractor shall be required to re-accomplish the production if the COR finds the reason for reaccomplishment valid. Re-accomplishment will be annotated in the appropriate project file. 1.7.4.15. Scripting. The authorized requester and/or technical advisor will provide the Contractor with the necessary resource material suitable for script preparation and subsequent production. The customer may provide a draft or finished script to the Contractor. The Contractor shall maintain full scripting capability to provide a shooting script and storyboard (as needed) for customer approval. While some projects may require significant research and extensive treatment of the subject material, others may need only minor effort to adapt material to the media requested. The frequency of Contractor and customer conferences and the amount of scripting preparation will vary according to the nature and complexity of the requested product. The technical advisor will assist the Contractor where necessary in the operation, use, and interpretation of resource materials. The requester and/or technical advisor will approve the final script prior to production. 1.7.4.16. Talent. The requester will schedule and assure availability of Government personnel to appear or perform in the AV production. The Contractor shall not be penalized for production delays incurred by customer inability to provide Government personnel when scheduled. Government personnel will not be required to sign a talent release. Non-Government personnel performing in AV productions will do so in keeping with negotiations with the Contractor but shall not have the right to future claims against the Government or Contractor for any talent fees. DD 2830, General Talent Release, Oct 2000 is required for minors and DD 2831, General Realease Where Talent Fee or Other Remuneration or Recompense Accrues to the Participant, Oct 2000 is required if talent release fees incur. 1.7.4.17. Initial Conference. Production approach, remote or studio scenes, script treatment, production and product distribution shall be discussed between the BMM, Contractor, and requesting agencies. It will be the BMM's option to terminate work on a given project at the conclusion of the initial conference. 1.7.4.18. Video Productions. The Contractor shall accomplish all planning, directing, staging, lighting, visual aids, production equipment, rehearsals, recording, photography, editing, and equipment operation to produce video productions. Productions may be recorded in the studio or at remote locations depending on the requirements of a specific project. Studio master recordings will be recorded on digital format as dictated by the media requirements. All master recordings must conform to Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) standards. Reproduction and distribution shall be made on DVD/CD. 1.7.4.19. Final Acceptance. When the Contractor considers a production complete, the Contractor shall schedule a meeting with the customer and COR to review the production. The customer will review the technical content and accuracy. The BMM or COR will review for picture, sound quality, and conformance with AF policy for AV production. 1.7.4.20. Audio Productions. The Contractor shall perform all tasks necessary for the production of digital or analog audio media. The audio recordings shall be accomplished IAW

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 ANSI (American National Standards Institute) standards. The final product may be either an audio digital file or CD/DVD, depending on the requirements of the customer. 1.7.4.21. Labeling. The Contractor shall perform identify, number and label all AV productions IAW AFI 35-109, para 8.8.4.2.1. 1.7.4.22. Music Inventory. The Contractor shall maintain an inventory of copyright cleared production music and sound effects on tape and disc. 1.7.4.23. Digital Conversion. The Contractor shall research and make recommendations to the Government for conversion of existing analog systems to digital. Equipment acquisition and facility design recommendations shall be submitted to the Government for approval, bearing in mind the future needs of the Government for VI productions and services. The Contractor shall be responsible for research, design, engineering, installation, and integration of replacement digital systems. The Government will be responsible for approval and purchase of replacement equipment/parts and associated wiring/cabling. 1.8. CABLE ACCESS TELEVISION (CAC). The Contractor shall operate and maintain CAC equipment for broadcast in Wall Studio, Building 0902, KAFB, MS, and assist the BMM and PA officer in programming for the cable access television channel(s). The Contractor shall maintain an over-ride capability for PA for the Commanding Officer of KAFB to address the base on an immediate basis. 1.8.1. Checklist. The Contractor shall ensure broadcast programs are loaded properly and run according to PA requirements from close of duty until the next duty day. All programming shall be documented on a 24-hour checklist and submitted to the COR with the monthly report. 1.9. MEDIA SUPPORT SECTION. The Contractor shall provide a media support function to include: maintaining a media library, issuing media and VI equipment for customer use. 1.9.1. Inventory. The Contractor shall provide central security, storage, order, issue, accountability, control, and safeguarding of all Government-provided VI media and equipment. The Contractor shall verify and sign an inventory of all equipment on hand within 30 working days of contract start date. 1.9.2. The Contractor shall maintain depository of master videotapes and conduct currency review of VI Productions to determine which are obsolete. Currency reviews are requested by HQ/AETC VI Manager or as required by the Defense Imagery Management Operations Center (normally on an annual basis). 1.9.3. The Contractor shall duplicate AV productions from master depository in quantity and format required by the customer. An audio and video quality check shall be performed on all materials before release. Tape to tape duplications may be performed in house.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.9.4. Maintain Media Catalog. The Contractor shall maintain a current listing of media available in the BMSC. Changes to the listing shall be noted with pen and ink changes until a new listing is accomplished. 1.9.5. The Contractor shall ensure VI product containers are annotated with the appropriate Standard DoD VI Production Identification Number (PIN) IAW AFI 35-109, para 6.2.2. Torn, missing, or worn VI product identification labels shall be replaced as required. 1.9.6. Obsolete Media Disposal. The Contractor shall remove obsolete and unusable VI media from the inventory. 1.9.7. Video and Still Camera Equipment. Only operable equipment shall be issued to meet customer needs. The Contractor shall provide control storage, issue, and security of VI equipment. The Contractor shall process customer requests for video and still camera equipment and ensure its availability on the date/time required as mutually arranged. Equipment reservations shall be made on a first-come, first-serve basis. AF IMT 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, 1 Jul 87 shall be used to document equipment loan transactions. Upon return of equipment, AF IMT 1297 shall be stamped "Received," dated, initialed by the Contractor representative, hours used annotated, and then filed. Equipment returned damaged or missing parts, covers, etc., must be brought to the attention of the customer, annotated on the AF IMT 1297, initialed by the customer, and brought to the attention of the COR. Upon return by a customer, equipment shall be checked, cleaned, and repaired as necessary prior to reissue to another customer. The Contractor shall provide operational instructions to customers borrowing camera equipment. The Contractor shall identify overdue equipment, contact the customer concerning its return, and notify the COR if the customer has not complied with the request by the date due. 1.9.8. Video Camera and Recorder System. The Contractor shall provide central storage, issue, and security of the video camera and recorder system(s) and associated accessories. The Contractor shall issue the equipment/accessories using an AF IMT 1297. Upon return of the video camera/recorder system, AF IMT 1297 shall be stamped "Received," dated, initialed by the Contractor's representative, hours used annotated, and filed. The Contractor shall check equipment to ensure it is fully operational and no apparent damage or abuse has been sustained. Discrepancies shall be documented on the back of the AF IMT 1297 and initialed by both the people returning the equipment and the person accepting the equipment. Damaged or missing parts and accessories shall be reported to the COR. 1.9.9. Videodiscs. Organizations borrowing video cameras and recording equipment shall furnish their own blank videotapes and disks. 1.10. EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.

1.10.1. Service Manual File. A file of manufacturer specifications and service advisories/ manuals shall be maintained for Government equipment.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.10.2. Replacement Parts. Quality of parts shall be equal to or better than the parts in the equipment when the equipment was turned over by the Government. 1.10.3. Repair Limits. The Contractor shall be responsible for the repair of any single piece of equipment up to a one-time limit of $500.00 for replacement parts. If replacement parts are estimated by the Contractor to exceed such limit, a detailed cost breakdown shall be submitted to the CO. If the CO approves the purchase of replacement parts, the Contractor shall purchase the repair parts and invoice the Government under the `Reimbursement for Equipment purchased by the Contractor on behalf of the Government' Line Item. The Contractor shall apply no overhead or markup to the purchase price. Positive proof of payment and receipt of the part will be required prior to processing Contractors invoice for payment of replacement parts. 1.10.4. Equipment Replacement and Upgrade. The Contractor shall submit a detailed equipment upgrade and replacement plan for GFE when requested. As directed by the Government, the Contractor shall purchase equipment and invoice the Government under the `Reimbursement for Equipment purchased by the Contractor on behalf of the Government' Line Item. Equipment Replacement Contract Line Number (CLIN). The Contractor shall apply no profit or fee to the purchase price. Positive proof of payment for the equipment will be required prior to processing Contractors invoice for payment of equipment purchases. 1.10.5. Five-Year Visual Information Equipment Plan (VIEP). Provide BMM with a five-year VIEP in style and format mandated in AFI 35-109, para 5.2. 1.11. EMERGENCY SERVICES. An emergency situation shall be defined as any situation where the Disaster Response Group is assembled. The situation can be aircraft accident, civil disturbance, natural disaster (volcano fall-out, earthquake, or weather related) ground accidents, or enemy hostilities. The priority assigned to work is Priority 1. The Contractor shall respond as described below to approximately one Unit Compliance Inspection or as dictated by AETC, 10 simulated emergencies and personnel recalls sometime during the year. This effort shall be included as part of the price of the contract. 1.11.1. Adherence to Mishap Plan. Contractor shall adhere to KAFB Mishap Response Plan, a supporting plan for an aircraft mishap investigation and the associated plan, 81TRW Disaster Preparedness Operations Plan. 1.11.2. Storm Duty. Photographic, Video, and Graphic support may be required immediately prior to and during hurricanes or hurricane exercises. Contractor selected for Storm Duty may or may not be evacuated to a remote site prior to storm landfall, to be determined according to current base policy. The family of the Contractor personnel performing Storm Duty shall not shelter on base with Storm Duty Contractor, or evacuate to the selected remote site with Storm Duty Contractor. Contractor personnel assigned to storm duty will coordinate and work through the BMM and COR who will oversee all VI requirements during exercises or storms. 1.11.3. Additional Emergency Situations. When required by the CO, the Contractor shall perform all VI services identified in this contract during crisis declared by the National Command Authority or an Overseas Combatant Commander in need of Keesler prepared VI

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 requirements and respond to additional emergency situations as described below. The CO will verbally advise the Contractor of the effort required and follow up as soon as possible with a written change to the contract. A negotiated equitable adjustment will be made to the contract. During hurricane conditions, the Contractor shall continue to provide service and shall be prepared to shelter personnel in a shelter designated by the BMM in order to continue service before, during, and after an actual hurricane. The Contractor shall be responsible for providing all food, water, sleeping material, and other items needed by Contractor personnel. Only Contractor personnel shall be sheltered. Family members, relatives, friends, etc., of Contractor personnel shall not be sheltered on KAFB. The Contractor shall ensure Contractor personnel are sheltered within the time limits set by the base for personnel to be in shelters. Contractor personnel shall not leave the shelter until base officials have given the all clear to leave the shelter. The Contractor shall monitor local conditions to estimate the length of time personnel will be sheltered and shall obey all guidance provided by base officials. If directed by base officials the Contractor personnel shall evacuate the designated shelter to other designated shelters. 1.11.4. Contingency Plan. The Contractor shall use the KAFB Mishap Response Plan and associated plan 81 TRW Disaster Preparedness Operations Plan, if activation or exercise of multiple contingency plans generates conflicting support requirements. If the Contractor cannot accomplish a routine workload due to the activation or exercise of any contingency plan, the Government will not take remedial action against the Contractor for nonsupport of lower priorities. 1.11.5. Surge Requirements. The Government, at its option, may augment surge requirements beyond the capability of the Contractor when the Government perceives that mission accomplishment is endangered. This shall require the approval of the CO. 1.12. CUSTODIAL SERVICES. The VI Contractor shall be responsible for good housekeeping practices, e.g., mopping of spills, proper storage of materials, daily cleanup in and around all work areas that are closed to service by the base custodial service provider. 1.13. COMMANDER'S FACILITY ASSESSMENT. Contractor shall prepare for Commander's Facility Assessment to include the combination of all the above tasks. The Contractor shall be notified two weeks in advance of this assessment. 1.14. CONSERVATION OF UTILITIES. The Contractor shall instruct employees in utilities conservation practices. The Contractor shall be responsible for operating under conditions that preclude the waste of utilities, which shall include: 1.14.1. Lights shall be used only in areas when and where work is being performed. 1.14.2. Employees shall not adjust heating, cooling, ventilating equipment, or control mechanisms. 1.14.3. Water faucets or valves shall be shut off as soon as the required usage is accomplished.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.15. PHYSICAL SECURITY. Areas controlled by Contractor personnel shall comply with base Force Protection Condition (FPCON) procedures, Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAM) and local search/identification requirements. The Contractor shall safeguard all Government property including controlled forms provided for Contractor use. At the end of each workday, Government training equipment, ground aerospace vehicles, facilities, support equipment, and other valuable materials shall be secured. 1.15.1. Key Control. The Contractor shall establish and implement key control procedures to ensure keys issued to the Contractor by the Government are properly safeguarded and not used by unauthorized personnel. The Contractor shall not duplicate keys issued by the Government. 1.15.2. Lost Keys. Lost keys shall be reported immediately to the CO. The Government replaces lost keys or performs re-keying. The total cost of lost keys, re-keying, or lock replacement shall be deducted from the monthly payment due to the Contractor. 1.15.3. Government Authorization. The Contractor shall ensure its employees do not allow Government issued keys to be used by personnel other than current authorized Contractor personnel. Contractor personnel shall not use keys to open work areas for personnel other than Contractor personnel engaged in performance of duties, unless authorized by the Functional Commander or designated representative. 1.15.4. Lock Combinations. The Contractor shall establish procedures to ensure door lock combinations are not revealed to unauthorized persons and ensure procedures are implemented. 1.16. EMPLOYEE TRAINING. The Contractor shall ensure that the employees listed below obtain the following mandatory training as a condition of their employment unless employees previously obtained this training. All positions must be designated within one month of contract start or position vacancy. 1.16.1. Equipment Custodians. A Government representative will be designated as the primary equipment custodian and will assign all Government-furnished equipment (GFE) on a hand receipt to Contractor personnel. The Contractor shall provide an alternate equipment custodian to work with the primary. Equipment custodian(s) must attend an equipment management class, conducted by the base supply activity, before being allowed to receipt for GFE. The class lasts approximately four hours and is usually conducted one time per month. The purpose of the class is to provide training on managing Government property, preparing and submitting supply forms, and using tables of allowances and other management products. The Contractor shall also attend any refresher training as may be required throughout the contract period. 1.16.2. Records Custodian and Records Clerk. The persons designated as the records technicians must attend a records management class, conducted by the base records management activity, not later than two months after being so designated. The class lasts approximately four hours and is usually conducted one time per month. The purpose of the class is to provide training on maintaining, disposing, reporting holdings, and disposition of AF records. POC for this training is 81st Communications Squadron (CS)/SCOK at (228) 377-2621 / DSN 597-2621.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

1.16.3. Fire Extinguisher and Fire Prevention. The Contractor shall ensure all employees receive initial fire extinguisher and fire prevention training through the Base Fire Department. POC for this training is 81st ID/IDF at (228) 377-3330 / DSN 597-. 1.17. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION MEETINGS. The contract manager may be required to meet at least weekly with the BMM, COR and CO during the first month of the contract. Meetings will be as often as necessary thereafter as determined by the CO. 1.18. SECURITY. 1.18.1. Security Clearance: National Agency Check With Written Inquiries (NACI). As a minimum, Contractor personnel shall successfully complete a NACI before operating Government-furnished workstations that have access to AF automated information systems. Requests for Contractor personnel hired at the beginning of the contract shall be submitted to the Government not later than 45 workdays from the contract start date. Requests for Contractor personnel hired subsequent to contract start date shall be submitted to the Government not later than ten workdays from the Contractor personnel's first duty day. Contractor personnel receiving unfavorable NACIs shall not be employed. The Government will submit requests for investigations on AF IMT 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, at no additional cost to the Contractor. Any personnel with access to classified material will be submitted by the Contractor's Facility Security Officer (FSO) for a Secret security clearance. The Contractor shall comply with the requirements of DoD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program; AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 Jan 05; and AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 Jun 12. 1.18.1.1. Contractor personnel shall comply with the requirements of AFI 71-101, Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, 8 Apr 11, and AFI 71-101, Volume 2, Protective Service Matters, 17 May 11. These regulations require Contractor personnel to report any information or circumstances of which they are aware that may pose a threat to the security of DoD personnel, Contractor personnel, resources, and classified or unclassified Defense information to their immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor of Contractor personnel will brief on this requirement during initial on-base assignment and as required thereafter. 1.18.1.2. The Unit Security Manager will assist the Contractor with any Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) Joint Clearance and Access Verification System (JCAVS) and eQIP by Design information for inputting NACIs with assistance from 81 SFS/IP. 1.18.1.3. Security Monitoring. The Contractor shall comply with all security requirements. Submit reports, classified if appropriate, of any information coming to their attention concerning any of their employees who have been cleared or are in the process of being cleared for access to classified information, which indicates that such access or determination may not be clearly consistent with the national interest. Reports shall be submitted to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) immediately upon notification of any adverse information, change in employee's status, official investigation, or any other reason. In addition, a copy of

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 this report shall be furnished to the contract Contracting Officer's Representative(s) (COR(s)) and 81 TRW Installation Commander (81 TRW/CC). 1.18.1.4. Listing of Employees. The Contractor shall maintain a current listing of all Contractor personnel. The list shall include Contractor personnel's names, Social Security numbers, and level of security clearance. The list will be validated and signed by the FSO and provided to the CO, COR, Base Visual Information Manager (BVIM), 81 SFS/IP, Unit Security Manager, and FSO prior to the contract start date. Updated listings shall be provided when a Contractor personnel's status or information changes. Documents will be marked as FOUO as a minimum. 1.19. 1.19.1. OPERATIONAL SECURITY (OPSEC). OPSEC Training.

1.19.1.1. Contractor personnel shall complete unit OPSEC in-processing training provided by 81st Wing Staff Agency (WSA) OPSEC Coordinator within 30 calendar days of reporting for duty. 1.19.1.2. All Contractor personnel shall complete annual refresher OPSEC awareness training provided by the Unit OPSEC Coordinator. 1.19.2. Disclosure of Information.

1.19.2.1. The Contractor shall not release to anyone outside the Contractor's organization any unclassified information, regardless of medium (e.g., film, tape, document, etc.), pertaining to or execution of any part of this contract or any program related to this contract, unless: 1.19.2.1.1. The CO, COR, 81 TRW/PA, or OPSEC Coordinator has given prior written approval; or 1.19.2.1.2. The information is otherwise in the public domain before the date of release.

1.19.2.2. Requests for approval shall identify the specific information to be released, the medium to be used, and the purpose for the release. The Contractor shall submit the request to the CO, COR, 81 TRW/PA, or OPSEC Coordinator at least 45 days before the proposed date for release. 1.19.2.3. The Contractor agrees to include a similar requirement in each subcontract under this contract. Subcontractors shall submit requests for authorization to release through the prime Contractor to the CO, COR, 81 TRW/PA, or OPSEC Coordinator. 1.20. LEVEL I ANTI-TERRORISM (AT) AWARENESS TRAINING. Level I AntiTerrorism (AT) Awareness Training is available upon request and will be conducted by the Installation Anti-Terrorism Officer (ATO). Contact the 81st Security Forces Squadron (81 SFS/S5X), at 228-376-6623.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.21. RECORDS. The Contractor shall create, maintain, and provide Governmentowned/Contractor-held records, regardless of media, in performance of this contract IAW the following directives: AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 Jun 12 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08 and AFGM2013-01, 28 May 14 AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 06 and AFGM2014-01, 28 May 14 Air Force Information Management System database (AFRIMS) (access through the Air Force Portal at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Air Force Electronic Records Management Solution 1.21.1. The Contractor shall segregate the Government-owned records from the Contractorowned records and identify all records required to be created by the PWS on the AFRIMS file plans. The Contractor shall create and maintain paper and electronic records (\\52mahg-fs-106) as appropriate. The Contractor shall maintain the software and background data to retrieve official electronic Government records throughout the lifecycle of the records. 1.21.2. The Contractor maintains and disposes of records IAW the AF records disposition schedules. 1.21.3. Electronically Stored Information (ESI). The Contractor shall maintain Government owned electronic non-official records on the organizational shared network drive according the subjective categories (example: template, common, reference material, and working files). Grant the base records manager access to all files located on the organizational shared network drive. The Contractor shall maintain the official electronic records on the base designated shared network drive (\\52mahg-fs-106) IAW the Air Force Electronic Records Management System and AFMAN 33-363, Chapter 6. 1.21.4. Upon completion of this contract, all Government-owned/Contractor-held records (regardless of media) received, created, maintained, or provided in the performance of the PWS shall be turned over to the Government. Background electronic data and records specified for delivery to the contracting agency must be accompanied by sufficient technical documentation and software to permit the Air Force to use the data. In the event of default or non-performance, the Government will have access to all records in order to ensure mission support is not interrupted. 1.21.5. Contractor-Owned Records. Maintain records that relate exclusively to the Contractor's internal business or are of a general nature not specifically related the performance of work under the contract separately from the Government-owned records. 1.21.6. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program. The Contractor shall comply with the requirements of DoD 5400.7-R/AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 Oct 10, and IC1, 24 Apr 12. If the Contractor receives a FOIA request, the Contractor shall ensure it is delivered immediately to the base FOIA manager (81 CS/SCOK) for processing. The FOIA manager will task a Government official who, as the authorized official, will make the decision on releasing Government records.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.21.7. Privacy Act Program. The Contractor shall create, maintain, and destroy Privacy Act data IAW AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 Jun 13; and Privacy Act systems of records notice(s) (http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.html). The Contractor shall not create or maintain a Privacy Act system of records prior to public notice. If the Contractor receives a Privacy Act request, the Contractor shall be responsible for searching for the records and providing those records to a Government official who, as the authorized official, will make the decision on releasing the Government records. 1.21.8. Functional Requests. A functional request is a written request for DoD records received from any person (including a member of the public), or a business that does not cite either the FOIA or Privacy Act. The Contractor shall be responsible for searching for the records and providing those records to a Government official who, as the authorized official, will make the decision on releasing the Government records. 1.21.9. For Official Use Only (FOUO). The Contractor shall create and maintain FOUO material. When documents containing FOUO material are authorized for destruction, shred the records so that the pieces can't be reconstructed. Degauss or overwrite magnetic tapes or other magnetic medium. 1.22. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (EMS). All Contractor personnel shall complete Environmental Management System (EMS) Awareness training prior to commencement of any activities. Training is available through the Air Force Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS), the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Training Network (ESOHTN), or through the Environmental Office (KBOS/CEV). 1.23. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. In the event that hazardous materials will be used in the execution of this contract, the Contractor shall be required to obtain authorization from the Installation Hazardous Materials Management Program before ordering or purchasing the hazardous product, IAW AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 5 Jun 14. This authorization process may take up to two weeks, which should be considered in the performance period of this contract. 1.24. SAFETY INFORMATION.

1.24.1. Obligations. Contractors shall comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA, Public Law 91-596) and the resulting standards, OSHA Standards 29 CFR 1910 and 1926. The detailed provisions of the act for accident prevention are directly applicable to all Contractor operations. Prime Contractors are also responsible for ensuring any sub-contractors also adhere to OSHA Guidance. OSHA compliance officers visit Contractor worksites on the installation. 1.24.2. Responsibilities. Following is a list of responsibilities for Contracting, Contractor, and Wing Safety personnel.
a.

Contractor Responsibilities.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1
(1)

Contractors are responsible for ensuring all industrial safety provisions are

followed.
(2) Contractors must report all accidents involving Air Force people, property, or equipment damage, and any Contractor personnel injured in the performance of the Air Force contract to the CO. (3) Take immediate corrective action to comply with safety regulations if informed of a violation by the CO. b. Contracting Officer (CO) Responsibilities. (1) Inform Contractor of non-compliance with safety regulations, which may cause injury to Air Force personnel or property.

Notify Wing Safety of any injuries or damage to AF property reported by the Contractor, in performance of an Air Force contract.
(2) c.

Wing Safety Responsibilities.

(1) 81st Training Wing Safety Personnel will periodically monitor Contractor operations to ensure safety regulation compliance as it applies to Air Force personnel and equipment.

Wing Safety personnel are available to the CO for technical assistance on matters pertaining to accident prevention.
(2) (3) Notify the CO if a safety procedure or condition exists which requires correction by the Contractor.

1.24.3. Safety Rules. Contractors shall pay particular attention to the following safety rules and ensure strict compliance while on the installation.
a.

General Safety Rules While on the Installation.
(1)

Ensure adequate lighting and barricading is available and used for day and night

operations.
(2) (3) (4)

Use proper shoring during trenching operations. Post proper warning signs at indoor and outdoor operations. Secure materials when doing high work, during high winds, or when high winds are

forecasted.
(5) Use

warning signs, barricades, or flagmen when operations present a hazard to

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 drivers, pedestrians, or workers.
b. Traffic Rules While on the Installation. All drivers, mobile equipment, and vehicles must comply with applicable federal, state, and local laws. (1)

Seat belts are mandatory for all passengers as well as drivers

(2) An approved bicycle helmet is required to be properly worn while riding bicycles on the installation. (3)

Drive the speed limit:
(a)

Base proper speed limit is 25 mph or as posted.

(b) Housing area speed limit is 15 mph. (c) Parking lot speed limit is 5 mph.
(4) Give full attention to the operation of the vehicle. Avoid operator distrations, such as using cellular phones, text messaging, etc. while operating a vehicle.

Park in designated areas and IAW Keesler AFB Instruction (KAFI) 31-218, Installation Traffic.
(5)

No riding in the beds of trucks, buckets of front end loaders, or tandem riding on vehicles designed for one-person operation.
(6) (7) (8) (9) (10)

Use safety chains in addition to towing hooks when towing equipment. Place a light on the rear of equipment being towed during the hours of darkness. Mark overhanging portions of loads with warning flags or lights.

When driving or using a crane or cherry picker, be cautious around power lines crossing the road and don't position booms closer than 10 feet to overhead high voltage lines.
(11) (12)

Ensure electrical work is IAW the National Electric Code. Upon encountering troop formations on the installation:

(a) Maintain 50-foot distance behind formations until signaled to pass by the troop commander. When signed to pass troop formation, do not exceed 10 mph while passing. (b) When passing from the front, proceed without stopping, but slow to 10 mph while passing.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 1.24. CONTRACTOR MANPOWER REPORTING. The Contractor shall report ALL Contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) for performance of services under this contract via a secure data collection site. The Contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields at http://www.ecmra.mil. Reporting inputs will be for all labor executed during the performance for each Government fiscal year (FY) which runs 1 October through 30 September. While inputs may be reported at any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than 31 October of each calendar year. Contractors may direct questions to the Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (CMRA) help desk.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 2. Services Summary (SS). Performance Objective 1. Provide Standard Graphic Products 2. Provide Standard Photographic Finishing, Provide Location Photography, Provide Studio Photography, Provide Public Affairs Photography 3. Provide Alert and Weather Photography 4. Provide KAFB Video Production, Provide MAJCOM Tasked Video Production 5. Provide CAC Programming and Broadcast

Para. 1.6 ­ 1.6.1.18. 1.7 ­ 1.7.3.16.

Performance Threshold No more than 3 defects per month No more than 3 defects per month

1.7.3.17 ­ 1.7.3.26 1.7.4 ­ 1.7.4.23 1.8 ­ 1.8.1

No more than 1 defect per month No more than 1 defect per month No more than 3 defects per month

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 3. Government-Furnished Facilities, Equipment, and Services. 3.1. Government-Furnished Facilities. The Government will furnish or make available facilities described herein and as noted in Appendix F, Maps. Government facilities have been inspected for compliance with the OSHA. No hazards have been identified for which a workaround have been established. Should a hazard be subsequently identified, the Government corrects OSHA hazards according to base wide Government developed and approved plans of abatement taking into account safety and health priorities. A higher priority for correction will not be assigned to the facilities provided hereunder merely because of this contracting initiative. The fact that no such conditions have been identified does not warrant or guarantee that no possible hazard exists, or that work-around procedures will not be necessary or that the facilities as furnished will be adequate to meet the responsibilities of the Contractor. Compliance with the OSHA and other applicable laws and regulations for protection of employees is exclusively the obligation of the Contractor. Further, the Government will assume no liability or responsibility for the Contractor's compliance or noncompliance with such requirements, with the exception of the aforementioned requirement to make corrections according to approved plans of abatement subject to base wide priorities. Before any modification of the facilities performed by the Contractor at his or her expense, the Contractor must furnish the CO documentation describing, in detail, the modification requested. No alterations to the facilities shall be made without specific written permission from the CO. In the case of alterations necessary for compliance with the OSHA, such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Contractor shall return the facilities to the Government in the same condition as received, fair wear and tear and approved modifications excepted. These facilities shall be used for performance of this contract only. The Government will appoint a Government employee (military or civilian) who will perform all Building Manager duties for Building 0902 (Wall Studio). 3.1.1. Relocation of Services. During the term of this contract, the Government will not be responsible for any cost incurred by the Contractor for any relocation of any VI services function. In the event a move is necessary, adequate space will be furnished. Adequate space shall be determined by the amount of square footage authorized under the AF Civil Engineer Directives applicable at date of move. The Government will be responsible for moving GFE and property, as well as connecting all utilities in the facility. The Contractor shall be responsible for moving all Contractor-owned equipment and materials. The Government will not be responsible for any cost incurred by the Contractor if a move takes place. 3.2. Government-Furnished Equipment (GFE). The BMM or COR will provide the Contractor the equipment listed in Appendix E at the beginning of the contract. The equipment listed in Appendix E will be in Building 0902, Wall Studio, and will be available when the Contractor begins work. GFE designated in this PWS and in Appendix E shall be managed IAW provisions of AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, 25 Jul 05, paras 2.3 and 6. The procedures specified are in addition to those required by the Government property clause of this contract. 3.2.1. Equipment Inventory. Inventory shall be accomplished by the Alternate Contractor Equipment Custodian IAW AFI 35-109, para 5.2.4. An inventory of GFE also must be accomplished not later than 30 calendar days after of the contract start date, within 10 calendar

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 days of the start of any option periods, and not later than 10 calendar days before completion of the contract period (including any option periods). The Contractor and a Government representative shall conduct a joint inventory of all GFE listed in Appendix E, and the Contractor shall sign a receipt for all equipment provided by the Government. Items of equipment missing or not in working order shall be recorded and the CO notified in writing. The Contractor and the COR shall jointly determine the working order and condition of all equipment and document their findings on the inventory. The Government will replace missing items and repair all items not in working order or the CO will direct the Contractor to replace the missing item(s) or accomplish the repair and the Contractor shall be reimbursed. The Government representative will give disposition instructions for items beyond repair. The Contractor and the Government representative shall certify their agreement as to the working order of the equipment. If the Contractor does not participate in the inventory, the Contractor must accept, as accurate, the listing and stated condition of equipment provided by the Government. In the event of a disagreement between the Contractor and the Government representative on the working order and condition of equipment, the disagreement shall be presented to the Contracting Officer. 3.2.2. Five-Year Equipment Plan/Equipment Planning. The Contractor shall submit and update, as requested by the BMM, a five-year equipment upgrade and replacement plan for Government consideration as identified in AFI 35-109, para 5.2. Equipment acquisition and replacement proposals will be supported with adequate written justification to substantiate funding. The Contractor shall provide the Government with a priority listing of equipment items required and update this listing as necessary. When so requested, the Contractor shall assist the BMM in identifying needs for other equipment acquisition venues. 3.3. Government Furnished Services. The Government will furnish the following Base Support related services. 3.3.1. Utilities. The Government will provide utilities (i.e. heat, electricity, water and air conditioning) the use of which by the Contractor shall be IAW conservation practices as listed in this PWS. 3.3.2. Building Repair and Upkeep. The Government will maintain, and when necessary repair, replace, relocate, or install fixed electrical systems (wiring, panels, protective devices, switches, receptacles and ceiling or wall mounted lighting fixtures), fixed plumbing systems (water supply lines, drain and sewer lines, water heaters and chillers, sinks, sanitary fixtures, emergency showers, drinking fountains, valves, and faucets) and fixed air conditioning systems (heating, cooling and ventilating equipment and controls. Duct work, vents and filters). Such Government responsibility shall not include providing or installing replacement incandescent bulbs or fluorescent tube lighting. 3.3.2.1. Reporting Problems. The Contractor shall immediately refer problems with utilities and facilities or requirements for their maintenance or repair to the COR (building manager). The Contractor shall, in cases of emergencies, notify the Emergency Services Unit of the 81st Civil Engineering Squadron (81CES).

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 3.3.3. Postal Services. The Government will provide Postal Services, the use of which by the Contractor shall be limited to the delivery of items related exclusively to official Government business. 3.3.4. Telephone Service. Local "Class C" telephone service, limited to official Government business, will be provided. 3.3.4.1. Defense Switched Network (DSN). Pursuant to AF mission demands, the Contractor shall be authorized the use of, or access to DSN. 3.3.4.2. Contractor's Telephone Service. Long distance phone capability is the choice and responsibility of the Contractor and such calls shall be at the Contractor's expense. The Contractor shall bear all costs of private telephone services as are required to place personal or long-distance telephone calls. 3.3.4.3. Bomb Threat Procedures. Contractor shall ensure that a copy of an AF IMT 440, Bomb Threat Aid, is maintained adjacent to each facility telephone. Personnel should be made aware of the form and how it is used in case a bomb threat call is received. The same requirement exists for new employees upon first duty day. The Law Enforcement desk is to be notified immediately of the call and responses recorded on the card. 3.3.4.4. Telephone Monitoring. The Government may monitor any call received by or made from Government facilities; this includes telephone service provided by the Contractor for off base or long distance calls. One DD Form 2056, Telephone Monitoring Decal, shall be placed on each Government telephone unit within the Visual Information Service Center. The Contractor shall replace decals when they become badly worn or hard to read. 3.3.5. Custodial Service. The Government will furnish custodial services for the hallways and rest rooms in Bldg. 0902 to the extent and at the frequencies specified in the custodial services contract. The Contractor shall be responsible for all housekeeping required beyond the scope of the custodial services contract. The Contractor shall refer problems with custodial services to the building manager. 3.3.6. Refuse Collection. The Government will furnish refuse collection at designated pickup points in the immediate vicinity of buildings where contract work is performed. When necessary, the Contractor shall consolidate accumulated refuse in plastic bags, secure the bags to prevent their contents from being accidentally scattered or blown about, and deposit the bags in the bulk containers (or "dumpsters") provided at the pickup points. The Contractor shall refer problems with refuse collection to the building manager. 3.3.7. Entomology and Animal Control Services. The Government will provide entomology and animal control services to the extent authorized and required to prevent, minimize, or eliminate the presence of insects, rodents, reptiles, and stray animals within, or in the vicinity of, building on the installation. The Contractor shall notify the building manager upon detection or suspicion of insects, rodents, reptiles, or stray animals within, or in the vicinity of, Government facilities provided for Contractor use. The Contractor is not authorized to request Entomology

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 Services directly. The Contractor shall ensure the proper handling, storage, and disposal of food, beverages, and other items, which might attract or sustain insects, rodents, reptiles, or stray animals. 3.3.8. Grounds Maintenance. The Government will furnish grounds maintenance to the extent and at the frequencies specified in the grounds maintenance services contract. The Contractor shall refer problems with grounds maintenance to the building manager. 3.3.9. Security Forces and Fire Protection. The Government will provide security forces (formerly security police) and fire protection to the extent authorized and required to enforce law and order and protect people and property on the installation. Fire Protection telephone number is 117. The Contractor shall report crimes (break-ins, thefts, sabotage, etc.) to the SFS and shall report all fires, in progress or extinguished, to the base fire station. 3.3.10. Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) Support. ADPE support is provided to the extent needed for updating base supply equipment custodian account records. 3.3.11. Transportation. The Contractor shall provide all Contractor transportation requirements at KAFB and the local area except for restricted areas requiring a restricted area badge. The service requester (customer) must provide transportation and escort into these areas. 3.3.12. Emergency Medical Services. Emergency medical care is available to Contractor personnel at Keesler Medical Center, Building 0468. For emergency ambulance service, call (228) 377-6555 / DSN 597-6555. 3.3.13. Records Management. The Base Records Manager will provide records management, Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act training. 3.3.14. See Appendix B, Contractor-Furnished Items and Services, for those items and services to be supplied by the Contractor.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX A ­ ACRONYMNS
ADPE - Automated Data Processing Equipment AETC - Air Education and Training Command AF - Air Force AFI ­ Air Force Instruction AFPIMS - AF Public Information Management System AFRIMS - Air Force Information Management System database AFSSI - AF System Security Instructions AI - Adobe Illustrator ANSI - American National Standards Institute ASAP - as soon as possible ATN - Air Training Network AV - Audio visual BMP - bitmap BMSC - Base Multimedia Service Center BMM - Base Multimedia Manager CAC - Commander's Access Channel CAC - Common Access Card CD - compact disk CDC - Career Development Course CDSAR - Course Development & Student Administration Record-Keeping System CE ­ Civil Engineering CLIN - Contract Line Number CO - Contracting Officer COMPUSEC - Computer Security Program COMSEC - Communications Security CSA - Client Support Activity DA - Digital Photography and All Department of Army DoD - Department of Defense DOL - Department of Labor DOS - Disk Operating System DPS - Digital Processing System DSN - Defense Switched Network DVD - Digital Versatile Disk ECI - Extension Course Institute EIC - Electronic Imaging Center EPA - Environmental Protection Agency EPS - encapsulated postscript format

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX A ­ ACRONYMNS (continued)
FOIA - Freedom of Information Act Program FOUO - For Official Use Only FPCON - Force Protection Condition RAM - Random Antiterrorism Measures FSO - Facility Security Officer GFE - Government-furnished equipment GFP - Government-Furnished Property GIS - Graphics Imaging System HIPAA - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 IA - Information Assurance IAAP - Information Assurance Awareness Program IAW - in accordance with ICW - Interactive Courseware ID - Identification IMI - Interactive Multimedia Instruction ITU - Instructional Technology Unit JCCC - Joint Combat Camera Center JPEG - Joint Photographic Experts Group KAFB - Keesler Air Force Base KETV - Keesler Television LAN - Local Area Network MEP ­ Multimedia (Visual Information) Equipment Plan NAC - National Agency Check OCR - Optical Character Recognition OJT - on-the-job-training OPR - Office of Prime Responsibility OPSEC - Operations Security ORI/UEI Organizational Readiness Inspections/Unit Effectiveness Inspections OSHA - Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration PA - Public Affairs PCS - permanent change of station PDF - Portable Document Format POC - Point of Contact POP - period of performance PWS - Performance Work Statement QA - Quality Assurance COR ­ Contracting Officer's Representative QCP - Quality Control Plan QTP - AF Qualification Training Packages

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX A ­ ACRONYMNS (continued)
QTP - Development & AF Qualification Training Package (Support Squadron) SAR - Search and Rescue SMPTE - Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers SSFO - Servicing Security Forces Organization SSN - Social Security number TDY - temporary duty TIFF - Tagged Image File Format TRW - Training Wing UCI ­ Unit Compliance Inspection VGSA - Visitor Group Security Agreement VI - Visual Information VIDOC - Visual Information Documentation VIEP - Visual Information Equipment Plan VIRIN - Visual Information Record Identification Number WMF - Windows Metafile

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX B CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED ITEMS AND SERVICES 1. General. Except for those items and services specifically stated to be Government-furnished in PWS para 3, Government-Furnished Facilities, Equipment, and Services, the Contractor shall furnish everything required to perform this PWS. 1.1. The Contractor shall ensure sufficient types and amounts of supplies, including repair and replacement parts, are on hand or can be readily obtained to support the requirements of this contract. 1.1.2. Data Storage. The Contractor shall supply all computer disks and data storage devices.. 2. Quality Standards for Contractor-Furnished Items. The Contractor shall ensure all Contractor-furnished items (considered to include any personally owned items that may be used by Contractor personnel) are adequate for the purposes for which used or intended and meet established safety, health, fire protection, and/or environmental standards and requirements pertaining to their use, as well as being compatible with Government-provided equipment. 2.1. Materials and supplies from which the Contractor produces end products shall be of a quality to ensure the stability, durability, and longevity of those products. 2.2. Repair and replacement parts shall be of a quality equal to, or exceeding, the specifications set forth by the original manufacturer. 3. Minimum Contractor-Furnished Equipment (CFE). The Contractor shall provide the following equipment to meet the needs of the contract. The following listing is considered the minimum equipment to be supplied by the Contractor in order to meet normal requirements under the contract. The Contractor may provide additional equipment to meet surge requirements, better provide products in a timely manner or provide products of superior quality. The Contractor shall not be entitled to any additional compensation or modification to the contract for providing CFE equipment, which supplements GFE (GFE). All CFE remains the Contractor property at completion of the contract. 3.1. Contractor-Purchased Equipment (CPE). Any CPE under the equipment reimbursement CLIN shall become the property of the Government. 3.2. Contractor's Reliance. The Contractor shall not rely upon any equipment purchases made under the equipment reimbursement CLIN to relieve the Contractor's responsibility to provide CFE. 3.3. Administrative and Management Information CFE. Reference para 1.1.3, "Work Control." The Contractor shall provide a computer and database program to establish and maintain a computerized work order tracking system for each area.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 3.4. The Contractor shall provide one (1) personal computer for the photo studio with Compact Flash Card and/or other photo media capabilities." 3.5. Hot Roll Laminator (CFE). Reference para 1.6.1.16. Contractor shall provide a hot roll laminator capable of laminating at least 36 inches wide and of handling thickness of up to 3/16 inches. 3.6. Perimeter Edge Trim System (CFE). The Contractor shall furnish an edge trim system and edging materials in black, white, silver and gold. The Contractor-furnished system shall be equal to or exceed the system manufactured by Trim U.S.A. 4. Housekeeping. The Contractor shall ensure that work and storage areas present a neat and clean appearance. Housekeeping to be performed by the Contractor at assigned facilities includes: 4.1. Proper arrangement and/or storage of equipment, furniture, supplies, tools, lights, electrical cords, etc., to eliminate clutter and potential fire and safety hazards (stored in cabinets or storage cases when not in use). Contractor shall ensure, as a minimum that boxes and equipment are not stored on cabinets, aisles are free of obstacles that impede traffic, exits are not blocked, equipment is positioned to prevent falls, and electrical cords do not present tripping hazards. Areas exposed to public (customer) view will present (at all times) a neat, orderly, organized, professional image (appearance). There will not be clutter or equipment lying around, any foodstuffs, or remnants, etc., to detract from that projected professionalism. 4.2. Weekly dusting and other necessary cleaning of exposed surfaces of furniture, equipment, cabinets, shelves, bins, lighting fixtures, walls, doors and doorways, etc. Contractor is responsible for keeping furniture, equipment, cabinets, shelves, bins, lighting fixtures, walls, doors around the ADPE and graphics computers clean in order to minimize equipment damage. 4.3. Desks and work areas are to be kept free of clutter. Waste, which overflows trash cans in facility, shall be taken out to the dumpsters. 4.4. Proper storage, handling, and disposal of food, beverages, and any other items which might attract or sustain insects, rodents, or other vermin. This includes washing or disposing of containers and utensils after use and not leaving food overnight in the facility unless stored in the refrigerator or in a closed container. 4.5. Immediate cleanup and proper disposal of spilled or leaked liquids, chemicals, paint, solvents, compounds, etc., to prevent corrosion, contamination, fire, damage, accidents, or injuries. 4.6. Contractor shall be responsible for purchasing and replacing all light bulbs and fluorescent tubes for the VI facility within Wall Studio, Bldg. 0902. Bulbs required for Studio One are: 55 W/21T5/T/2G11RS, HPL 750/115, and 009-55W32KSP. Bulbs required for Studio Two are: Q2000T11/4CL, Q750/4CL, Q1000TG/4CL, Q5000T20/4CL, Sylvania FER, FHM, BTM.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1

5. Postal/Installation Distribution. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable size, weight, packaging, sealing, marking, handling, and security requirements and restrictions. 5.1. The Contractor is responsible for packaging of media for shipment. Local requirements include the use of a self-adhesive 3x5 inch-mailing label attached to the outside of the package. Each mailing label shall include the official return address of the BMSC. Media products of like size should be securely bound together in packages not to exceed 50 pounds, using nylon reinforced shipping tape. Tapes and films of unequal size should be securely boxed for shipment. The Contractor shall provide all shipping materials required. 5.2. Contractor shall be responsible, upon request, for the mailing of official portraits, record photography, graphic products and other items produced through the Postal Services Center (PSC). Flat work should be packaged with sufficient reinforcement to preclude bending or damage. The Contractor shall provide shipping tapes and other appropriate materials envelopes. 5.3. Government mail deliveries are not made to or from the BMSC. Contractor shall go to a centrally located facility housing the postal/installation distribution. Pickup shall be accomplished at least once daily. 6. Government Reimbursement for Travel/Per Diem. The Government will reimburse the Contractor for travel/per diem expenses incurred by Contractor personnel in the course of official TDY as required by a requesting agency IAW the Joint Travel regulations (JTR).

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX C WORK ORDER PRIORITIES The following table represents the work order priority system for this PWS. The percentages shown are estimates only. The Contractor is cautioned that surge requirements may, at times, cause an increase in priority status. The Contractor may enter into negotiations requesting "Over and Above" payments if priorities exceed those listed. The CO must grant approval prior to the Contractor beginning any "Over and Above" priority work. PRODUCT PERCENT PRI. 01 (Response Time Not to Exceed) 15% (8 hours) 5% (3 days) 1% (5 days) 20% (8 hours) 68% (2 days) 5% (5 days) 68% (2 days) PERCENT PERCENT PRI. 02 PRI. 03 (Response (Response Time Not to Time Not to Exceed) Exceed) 20% 63% (3 days) (5 days) 10% 60% (5 days) (10 days) 8% 26% (10 days) (15 days) 70% 9% (3 days) (5 days) 12% 10% (5 days) (10 days) 50% 25% (20 days) (30 days) 12% 10% (5 days) (10 days) PERCENT PRI. 04 (Response Time Not to Exceed) 2% (6 days + ) 25% (20 days) 65% (16 days + TBD)* 1% (5 days +) 10% (15 days) 20% (45 days) 10% (15 days) TOTAL PERCENT

Simple Graphics Average Graphics Complex Graphics Photography Documentation Services Video Productions PA/CAC Fast Productions

100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

TBD = To be determined at time work order is authorized * = additional response time may be required and is authorized

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX D WORKLOAD ESTIMATES Workloads Photo: Color 2x2 prints Photo: Color 5x7 prints and 4x6 Photo: Color 8x10 prints Photo: Color 11x14 prints Photo: Digital files Photo: Digital file copies Photo: AFPIMS digital submission (para. 1.6.3.25) Graphics: Charts ­ status/wall Graphics: Signs Graphics: Posters/Reproduction Graphics: Reproduction Graphics: Digital File copies Graphics: 2D/3D Display ­ art for displays Graphics: Nameplates Graphics: Certificates Graphics: Publication art Graphics: Emblems Graphics: Dry-mounting 16x20 and smaller Graphics: Dry-mounting 16x20 up to 96 Graphics: Laminating of prints 16x20 and smaller Graphics: Laminating of prints 16x20 up to 108 Graphics: Television graphics ­ computer illustration Graphics: IMI graphics ­ 3D animation Graphics: Perimeter edge trim (in inches) Video: Productions Video: PA/CAC Productions Video: Visual Information Documentation Estimated Quantity(Annual) 2,000 700 600 10 25,100 1000 1200 200 600 250 1200 1500 200 1500 900 1500 100 500 500 1000 1000 450 20 45,000 20 30 12

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 Video: Audio recording/production Video: Commanders Access Television (CAC) ­ programming slides Video: Commanders Access Television (CAC) ­ programming tapes Video: DVD/CD program duplication Video: Video Compression services Video: Audio digital capture 5 800 30 375 200 10

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX E GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP)* (EAID) VISUAL INFORMATION NON-EAID* PHOTO* NOMENCLATURE STOCK NUMBER LOCATION

GRAPHICS* NOMENCLATURE STOCK NUMBER LOCATION

TELEVISION* NOMENCLATURE STOCK NUMBER LOCATION

SOFTWARE* NOMENCLATURE STOCK NUMBER LOCATION

*SEE SEPARATELY ATTACHED EXCEL SHEET FOR ABOVE INFORMATION

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX F MAP

Shaded areas on the map are reserved for Government control

5.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Attachment 1 APPENDIX G REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTS DATA Contract Manager Designation. Provide BMM and COR with a copy of letter(s) designating Contract Manager. (Reference PWS para 1.1.5.1.) Employee/Security Clearance Listing. Provide BMM with complete listing of Contractor personnel and their security clearances that are engaged in work performance of the VI services contract. (Reference PWS para. 1.18.) Weekly Work Order Reports. Provide the COR with the previous weeks' completed and numbered work orders. The cover sheet shall be of a style and format mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and COR. (Reference PWS para. 1.1.4.1.) Monthly Work Order Report. Provide the BMM with a complete breakdown of all VI work completed the previous month. Complete the AIM2 Production Reports. They are due by the 5th of each month following the reporting month. The report shall be of a style and format mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and the BMM. (Reference PWS para 1.2.1.) Reimbursable Cost Data. Provide the BMM with a complete breakdown of reimbursable cost incurred performing work for Wing, Group and Host-Tenant and Inter-Service Support Agreements. The report shall be of a style and format mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and BMM. (Reference PWS para. 1.2.4.) Alert Photographer. Provide the BMM, COR, SFS, Command Post, and the Keesler Medical Center with a list of designated Alert Photographers, their tour of duty, and phone numbers. The list shall be of a style and format mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and the BMM and COR. (Reference PWS para 1.7.3.17.) VI Historical Submission. Provide PA and BMM with still photo, video, and graphics submission reports data. Contractor shall ensure that PA will review and enclose cover letter for record submission as required by DoD Directives and AF Instructions. The report shall be submitted in format dictated by the corresponding DoD Directive. (Reference PWS para 1.2.1.1.2.3.) Equipment Replacement and Upgrade. Provide the BMM with a detailed list of equipment replacement and upgrade for utilization of the CLIN. The report shall be of a style and format mutually agreed upon by the BMM and COR. (Reference PWS para 1.10.4..) Five-Year Visual Information Equipment Plan (VIEP). Provide BMM with a five-year VIEP in style and format mandated in AFI 35-109, para 5.2. Contractor Quality Control Plan. Provide BMM or COR with Contractor Quality Control Plan to include Responsibilities, Inspection Plan, Corrective Action and Environmental Requirements. (Reference PWS para. 1.2.) Unforeseen Reports Data. Provide BMM and COR with reports required by higher authority in relation to VI services at KAFB performed by the Contractor. These reports may require quick turnaround time. The Contractor, BMM, and COR will work closely to ensure the reports are accomplished quickly and accurately.


                                                                                                                                 FA3010-14-R-0009
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2

WD 05-2301 (Rev.-14) was first posted on www.wdol.gov on 08/05/2014
************************************************************************************
REGISTER OF WAGE DETERMINATIONS UNDER  |        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
       THE SERVICE CONTRACT ACT        |  EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
By direction of the Secretary of Labor |         WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION
                                       |         WASHINGTON D.C.  20210
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       | Wage Determination No.: 2005-2301
Diane C. Koplewski       Division of   |           Revision No.: 14
Director            Wage Determinations|       Date Of Revision: 07/25/2014
_______________________________________|____________________________________________
State: Mississippi

Area: Mississippi Counties of George, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Pearl River,
Stone
____________________________________________________________________________________
          **Fringe Benefits Required Follow the Occupational Listing**
OCCUPATION CODE - TITLE                                  FOOTNOTE               RATE
01000 - Administrative Support And Clerical Occupations
  01011 - Accounting Clerk I                                                   12.39
  01012 - Accounting Clerk II                                                  15.08
  01013 - Accounting Clerk III                                                 16.77
  01020 - Administrative Assistant                                             18.76
  01040 - Court Reporter                                                       14.61
  01051 - Data Entry Operator I                                                10.76
  01052 - Data Entry Operator II                                               12.08
  01060 - Dispatcher, Motor Vehicle                                            15.59
  01070 - Document Preparation Clerk                                           11.31
  01090 - Duplicating Machine Operator                                         11.31
  01111 - General Clerk I                                                      11.03
  01112 - General Clerk II                                                     12.04
  01113 - General Clerk III                                                    13.67
  01120 - Housing Referral Assistant                                           16.29
  01141 - Messenger Courier                                                     9.56
  01191 - Order Clerk I                                                        12.09
  01192 - Order Clerk II                                                       14.67
  01261 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) I                                   13.54
  01262 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) II                                  15.14
  01263 - Personnel Assistant (Employment) III                                 16.89
  01270 - Production Control Clerk                                             18.74
  01280 - Receptionist                                                         11.19
  01290 - Rental Clerk                                                         10.82
  01300 - Scheduler, Maintenance                                               13.06
  01311 - Secretary I                                                          13.06
  01312 - Secretary II                                                         14.61
  01313 - Secretary III                                                        16.29
  01320 - Service Order Dispatcher                                             12.47
  01410 - Supply Technician                                                    18.10
  01420 - Survey Worker                                                        13.80
  01531 - Travel Clerk I                                                       11.65
  01532 - Travel Clerk II                                                      12.37
  01533 - Travel Clerk III                                                     12.97
  01611 - Word Processor I                                                     13.29
  01612 - Word Processor II                                                    14.92
  01613 - Word Processor III                                                   16.69
05000 - Automotive Service Occupations
  05005 - Automobile Body Repairer, Fiberglass                                 21.73
  05010 - Automotive  Electrician                                              17.59
  05040 - Automotive Glass Installer                                           16.90
  05070 - Automotive Worker                                                    16.90
  05110 - Mobile Equipment Servicer                                            15.49
  05130 - Motor Equipment Metal Mechanic                                       18.27
  05160 - Motor Equipment Metal Worker                                         16.90
  05190 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic                                               19.39
  05220 - Motor Vehicle Mechanic Helper                                        14.84
  05250 - Motor Vehicle Upholstery Worker                                      16.20
  05280 - Motor Vehicle Wrecker                                                16.90
  05310 - Painter, Automotive                                                  17.59
  05340 - Radiator Repair Specialist                                           16.90
  05370 - Tire Repairer                                                        12.36
  05400 - Transmission Repair Specialist                                       18.27
07000 - Food Preparation And Service Occupations
  07010 - Baker                                                                11.15
  07041 - Cook I                                                               10.34
  07042 - Cook II                                                              11.28
  07070 - Dishwasher                                                            8.77
  07130 - Food Service Worker                                                   8.41
  07210 - Meat Cutter                                                          13.16
  07260 - Waiter/Waitress                                                       8.83
09000 - Furniture Maintenance And Repair Occupations
  09010 - Electrostatic Spray Painter                                          16.50
  09040 - Furniture Handler                                                    13.10
  09080 - Furniture Refinisher                                                 16.50
  09090 - Furniture Refinisher Helper                                          13.94
  09110 - Furniture Repairer, Minor                                            15.20
  09130 - Upholsterer                                                          16.50
11000 - General Services And Support Occupations
  11030 - Cleaner, Vehicles                                                     9.14
  11060 - Elevator Operator                                                     9.14
  11090 - Gardener                                                             12.62
  11122 - Housekeeping Aide                                                    10.53
  11150 - Janitor                                                              10.53
  11210 - Laborer, Grounds Maintenance                                         10.96
  11240 - Maid or Houseman                                                      8.89
  11260 - Pruner                                                               10.35
  11270 - Tractor Operator                                                     12.20
  11330 - Trail Maintenance Worker                                             10.96
  11360 - Window Cleaner                                                       11.11
12000 - Health Occupations
  12010 - Ambulance Driver                                                     14.53
  12011 - Breath Alcohol Technician                                            15.99
  12012 - Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant                           18.30
  12015 - Certified Physical Therapist Assistant                               16.64
  12020 - Dental Assistant                                                     13.64
  12025 - Dental Hygienist                                                     26.82
  12030 - EKG Technician                                                       24.24
  12035 - Electroneurodiagnostic Technologist                                  24.24
  12040 - Emergency Medical Technician                                         14.53
  12071 - Licensed Practical Nurse I                                           14.30
  12072 - Licensed Practical Nurse II                                          15.99
  12073 - Licensed Practical Nurse III                                         17.83
  12100 - Medical Assistant                                                    13.23
  12130 - Medical Laboratory Technician                                        13.98
  12160 - Medical Record Clerk                                                 12.63
  12190 - Medical Record Technician                                            14.22
  12195 - Medical Transcriptionist                                             13.85
  12210 - Nuclear Medicine Technologist                                        30.24
  12221 - Nursing Assistant I                                                   9.73
  12222 - Nursing Assistant II                                                 10.94
  12223 - Nursing Assistant III                                                11.94
  12224 - Nursing Assistant IV                                                 13.40
  12235 - Optical Dispenser                                                    15.66
  12236 - Optical Technician                                                   12.82
  12250 - Pharmacy Technician                                                  13.17
  12280 - Phlebotomist                                                         13.52
  12305 - Radiologic Technologist                                              21.02
  12311 - Registered Nurse I                                                   22.23
  12312 - Registered Nurse II                                                  25.94
  12313 - Registered Nurse II, Specialist                                      27.19
  12314 - Registered Nurse III                                                 32.89
  12315 - Registered Nurse III, Anesthetist                                    32.89
  12316 - Registered Nurse IV                                                  39.42
  12317 - Scheduler (Drug and Alcohol Testing)                                 19.82
13000 - Information And Arts Occupations
  13011 - Exhibits Specialist I                                                16.83
  13012 - Exhibits Specialist II                                               20.86
  13013 - Exhibits Specialist III                                              25.61
  13041 - Illustrator I                                                        16.83
  13042 - Illustrator II                                                       20.86
  13043 - Illustrator III                                                      25.61
  13047 - Librarian                                                            23.09
  13050 - Library Aide/Clerk                                                    9.77
  13054 - Library Information Technology Systems                               20.86
  Administrator
  13058 - Library Technician                                                   12.78
  13061 - Media Specialist I                                                   15.05
  13062 - Media Specialist II                                                  16.83
  13063 - Media Specialist III                                                 18.77
  13071 - Photographer I                                                       12.74
  13072 - Photographer II                                                      14.25
  13073 - Photographer III                                                     17.66
  13074 - Photographer IV                                                      21.74
  13075 - Photographer V                                                       26.13
  13110 - Video Teleconference Technician                                      14.62
14000 - Information Technology Occupations
  14041 - Computer Operator I                                                  14.48
  14042 - Computer Operator II                                                 16.20
  14043 - Computer Operator III                                                18.76
  14044 - Computer Operator IV                                                 20.07
  14045 - Computer Operator V                                                  22.22
  14071 - Computer Programmer I                          (see 1)               20.43
  14072 - Computer Programmer II                         (see 1)               25.30
  14073 - Computer Programmer III                        (see 1)
  14074 - Computer Programmer IV                         (see 1)
  14101 - Computer Systems Analyst I                     (see 1)
  14102 - Computer Systems Analyst II                    (see 1)
  14103 - Computer Systems Analyst III                   (see 1)
  14150 - Peripheral Equipment Operator                                        14.48
  14160 - Personal Computer Support Technician                                 20.07
15000 - Instructional Occupations
  15010 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Non-Rated)                      27.76
  15020 - Aircrew Training Devices Instructor (Rated)                          33.59
  15030 - Air Crew Training Devices Instructor (Pilot)                         40.14
  15050 - Computer Based Training Specialist / Instructor                      27.76
  15060 - Educational Technologist                                             34.22
  15070 - Flight Instructor (Pilot)                                            40.14
  15080 - Graphic Artist                                                       19.42
  15090 - Technical Instructor                                                 19.73
  15095 - Technical Instructor/Course Developer                                22.52
  15110 - Test Proctor                                                         15.92
  15120 - Tutor                                                                15.92
16000 - Laundry, Dry-Cleaning, Pressing And Related Occupations
  16010 - Assembler                                                             8.97
  16030 - Counter Attendant                                                     8.97
  16040 - Dry Cleaner                                                          10.38
  16070 - Finisher, Flatwork, Machine                                           8.97
  16090 - Presser, Hand                                                         8.97
  16110 - Presser, Machine, Drycleaning                                         8.97
  16130 - Presser, Machine, Shirts                                              8.97
  16160 - Presser, Machine, Wearing Apparel, Laundry                            8.97
  16190 - Sewing Machine Operator                                              11.00
  16220 - Tailor                                                               11.65
  16250 - Washer, Machine                                                       9.36
19000 - Machine Tool Operation And Repair Occupations
  19010 - Machine-Tool Operator (Tool Room)                                    18.58
  19040 - Tool And Die Maker                                                   21.01
21000 - Materials Handling And Packing Occupations
  21020 - Forklift Operator                                                    15.50
  21030 - Material Coordinator                                                 18.74
  21040 - Material Expediter                                                   18.74
  21050 - Material Handling Laborer                                            11.36
  21071 - Order Filler                                                         11.80
  21080 - Production Line Worker (Food Processing)                             15.50
  21110 - Shipping Packer                                                      12.52
  21130 - Shipping/Receiving Clerk                                             12.52
  21140 - Store Worker I                                                       14.79
  21150 - Stock Clerk                                                          16.50
  21210 - Tools And Parts Attendant                                            15.50
  21410 - Warehouse Specialist                                                 15.50
23000 - Mechanics And Maintenance And Repair Occupations
  23010 - Aerospace Structural Welder                                          24.47
  23021 - Aircraft Mechanic I                                                  23.29
  23022 - Aircraft Mechanic II                                                 24.47
  23023 - Aircraft Mechanic III                                                25.68
  23040 - Aircraft Mechanic Helper                                             18.92
  23050 - Aircraft, Painter                                                    22.06
  23060 - Aircraft Servicer                                                    20.66
  23080 - Aircraft Worker                                                      21.56
  23110 - Appliance Mechanic                                                   18.58
  23120 - Bicycle Repairer                                                     12.36
  23125 - Cable Splicer                                                        22.88
  23130 - Carpenter, Maintenance                                               17.95
  23140 - Carpet Layer                                                         14.76
  23160 - Electrician, Maintenance                                             19.75
  23181 - Electronics Technician Maintenance I                                 20.75
  23182 - Electronics Technician Maintenance II                                21.51
  23183 - Electronics Technician Maintenance III                               22.25
  23260 - Fabric Worker                                                        17.20
  23290 - Fire Alarm System Mechanic                                           20.09
  23310 - Fire Extinguisher Repairer                                           16.49
  23311 - Fuel Distribution System Mechanic                                    21.51
  23312 - Fuel Distribution System Operator                                    16.76
  23370 - General Maintenance Worker                                           14.91
  23380 - Ground Support Equipment Mechanic                                    23.29
  23381 - Ground Support Equipment Servicer                                    20.66
  23382 - Ground Support Equipment Worker                                      21.56
  23391 - Gunsmith I                                                           16.49
  23392 - Gunsmith II                                                          17.92
  23393 - Gunsmith III                                                         19.91
  23410 - Heating, Ventilation And Air-Conditioning                            18.90
  Mechanic
  23411 - Heating, Ventilation And Air Contditioning                           19.16
  Mechanic (Research Facility)
  23430 - Heavy Equipment Mechanic                                             18.79
  23440 - Heavy Equipment Operator                                             16.03
  23460 - Instrument Mechanic                                                  19.91
  23465 - Laboratory/Shelter Mechanic                                          18.58
  23470 - Laborer                                                              11.36
  23510 - Locksmith                                                            18.22
  23530 - Machinery Maintenance Mechanic                                       20.21
  23550 - Machinist, Maintenance                                               18.65
  23580 - Maintenance Trades Helper                                            15.22
  23591 - Metrology Technician I                                               19.91
  23592 - Metrology Technician II                                              20.59
  23593 - Metrology Technician III                                             21.20
  23640 - Millwright                                                           19.82
  23710 - Office Appliance Repairer                                            16.72
  23760 - Painter, Maintenance                                                 15.08
  23790 - Pipefitter, Maintenance                                              18.47
  23810 - Plumber, Maintenance                                                 17.40
  23820 - Pneudraulic Systems Mechanic                                         19.91
  23850 - Rigger                                                               19.91
  23870 - Scale Mechanic                                                       17.92
  23890 - Sheet-Metal Worker, Maintenance                                      18.08
  23910 - Small Engine Mechanic                                                13.96
  23931 - Telecommunications Mechanic I                                        24.20
  23932 - Telecommunications Mechanic II                                       27.78
  23950 - Telephone Lineman                                                    20.70
  23960 - Welder, Combination, Maintenance                                     17.57
  23965 - Well Driller                                                         18.90
  23970 - Woodcraft Worker                                                     19.91
  23980 - Woodworker                                                           17.07
24000 - Personal Needs Occupations
  24570 - Child Care Attendant                                                  8.61
  24580 - Child Care Center Clerk                                              11.40
  24610 - Chore Aide                                                           11.01
  24620 - Family Readiness And Support Services                                15.82
  Coordinator
  24630 - Homemaker                                                            12.19
25000 - Plant And System Operations Occupations
  25010 - Boiler Tender                                                        19.60
  25040 - Sewage Plant Operator                                                16.13
  25070 - Stationary Engineer                                                  19.60
  25190 - Ventilation Equipment Tender                                         15.23
  25210 - Water Treatment Plant Operator                                       15.97
27000 - Protective Service Occupations
  27004 - Alarm Monitor                                                        13.21
  27007 - Baggage Inspector                                                    11.23
  27008 - Corrections Officer                                                  12.80
  27010 - Court Security Officer                                               15.40
  27030 - Detection Dog Handler                                                15.38
  27040 - Detention Officer                                                    12.80
  27070 - Firefighter                                                          17.64
  27101 - Guard I                                                              11.23
  27102 - Guard II                                                             15.38
  27131 - Police Officer I                                                     15.75
  27132 - Police Officer II                                                    17.50
28000 - Recreation Occupations
  28041 - Carnival Equipment Operator                                          11.14
  28042 - Carnival Equipment Repairer                                          12.75
  28043 - Carnival Equpment Worker                                              9.60
  28210 - Gate Attendant/Gate Tender                                           14.28
  28310 - Lifeguard                                                            12.19
  28350 - Park Attendant (Aide)                                                15.97
  28510 - Recreation Aide/Health Facility Attendant                            11.66
  28515 - Recreation Specialist                                                19.61
  28630 - Sports Official                                                      12.72
  28690 - Swimming Pool Operator                                               17.32
29000 - Stevedoring/Longshoremen Occupational Services
  29010 - Blocker And Bracer                                                   20.56
  29020 - Hatch Tender                                                         19.81
  29030 - Line Handler                                                         19.81
  29041 - Stevedore I                                                          19.70
  29042 - Stevedore II                                                         21.36
30000 - Technical Occupations
  30010 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Center (HFO)   (see 2)               35.77
  30011 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Station (HFO)  (see 2)               24.66
  30012 - Air Traffic Control Specialist, Terminal (HFO) (see 2)               27.16
  30021 - Archeological Technician I                                           17.91
  30022 - Archeological Technician II                                          20.08
  30023 - Archeological Technician III                                         24.82
  30030 - Cartographic Technician                                              26.10
  30040 - Civil Engineering Technician                                         18.35
  30061 - Drafter/CAD Operator I                                               18.63
  30062 - Drafter/CAD Operator II                                              21.06
  30063 - Drafter/CAD Operator III                                             23.45
  30064 - Drafter/CAD Operator IV                                              28.86
  30081 - Engineering Technician I                                             16.25
  30082 - Engineering Technician II                                            18.24
  30083 - Engineering Technician III                                           20.44
  30084 - Engineering Technician IV                                            25.28
  30085 - Engineering Technician V                                             31.68
  30086 - Engineering Technician VI                                            37.41
  30090 - Environmental Technician                                             23.70
  30210 - Laboratory Technician                                                18.70
  30240 - Mathematical Technician                                              25.12
  30361 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant I                                          15.77
  30362 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant II                                         19.54
  30363 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant III                                        23.91
  30364 - Paralegal/Legal Assistant IV                                         28.92
  30390 - Photo-Optics Technician                                              25.12
  30461 - Technical Writer I                                                   24.33
  30462 - Technical Writer II                                                  27.26
  30463 - Technical Writer III                                                 32.98
  30491 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician I                               22.74
  30492 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician II                              27.51
  30493 - Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Technician III                             32.97
  30494 - Unexploded (UXO) Safety Escort                                       22.74
  30495 - Unexploded (UXO) Sweep Personnel                                     22.74
  30620 - Weather Observer, Combined Upper Air Or        (see 2)               23.45
  Surface Programs
  30621 - Weather Observer, Senior                       (see 2)               25.12
31000 - Transportation/Mobile Equipment Operation Occupations
  31020 - Bus Aide                                                              9.59
  31030 - Bus Driver                                                           14.48
  31043 - Driver Courier                                                       12.79
  31260 - Parking and Lot Attendant                                             8.66
  31290 - Shuttle Bus Driver                                                   13.37
  31310 - Taxi Driver                                                          10.09
  31361 - Truckdriver, Light                                                   13.37
  31362 - Truckdriver, Medium                                                  15.35
  31363 - Truckdriver, Heavy                                                   18.33
  31364 - Truckdriver, Tractor-Trailer                                         18.33
99000 - Miscellaneous Occupations
  99030 - Cashier                                                               8.64
  99050 - Desk Clerk                                                            9.43
  99095 - Embalmer                                                             22.74
  99251 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker I                                        13.56
  99252 - Laboratory Animal Caretaker II                                       13.95
  99310 - Mortician                                                            22.74
  99410 - Pest Controller                                                      12.79
  99510 - Photofinishing Worker                                                11.95
  99710 - Recycling Laborer                                                    14.77
  99711 - Recycling Specialist                                                 16.34
  99730 - Refuse Collector                                                     13.46
  99810 - Sales Clerk                                                          11.54
  99820 - School Crossing Guard                                                13.99
  99830 - Survey Party Chief                                                   16.49
  99831 - Surveying Aide                                                       10.91
  99832 - Surveying Technician                                                 14.98
  99840 - Vending Machine Attendant                                            13.25
  99841 - Vending Machine Repairer                                             15.07
  99842 - Vending Machine Repairer Helper                                      12.35




____________________________________________________________________________________

ALL OCCUPATIONS LISTED ABOVE RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING BENEFITS:

HEALTH & WELFARE: $4.02 per hour or $160.80 per week or $696.79 per month

VACATION: 1 week paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or
successor; 2 weeks after 2 years; 3 weeks after 5 years; and 4 weeks after 15 years.
 Length of service includes the whole span of continuous service with the present
contractor or successor, wherever employed, and with the predecessor contractors in
the performance of similar work at the same Federal facility. (Reg. 29 CFR 4.173)

HOLIDAYS: A minimum of ten paid holidays per year, New Year's Day, Martin Luther
King Jr's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.  (A
contractor may substitute for any of the named holidays another day off with pay in
accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved.)  (See 29 CFR 4174)



THE OCCUPATIONS WHICH HAVE NUMBERED FOOTNOTES IN PARENTHESES RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING:

1)  COMPUTER EMPLOYEES:  Under the SCA at section 8(b), this wage determination does
not apply to any employee who individually qualifies as a bona fide executive,
administrative, or professional employee as defined in 29 C.F.R. Part 541.  Because
most Computer System Analysts and Computer Programmers who are compensated at a rate
not less than $27.63 (or on a salary or fee basis at a rate not less than $455 per
week) an hour would likely qualify as exempt computer professionals, (29 C.F.R. 541.
400) wage rates may not be listed on this wage determination for all occupations
within those job families.  In addition, because this wage determination may not
list a wage rate for some or all occupations within those job families if the survey
data indicates that the prevailing wage rate for the occupation equals or exceeds
$27.63 per hour conformances may be necessary for certain nonexempt employees.  For
example, if an individual employee is nonexempt but nevertheless performs duties
within the scope of one of the Computer Systems Analyst or Computer Programmer
occupations for which this wage determination does not specify an SCA wage rate,
then the wage rate for that employee must be conformed in accordance with the
conformance procedures described in the conformance note included on this wage
determination.

Additionally, because job titles vary widely and change quickly in the computer
industry, job titles are not determinative of the application of the computer
professional exemption.  Therefore, the exemption applies only to computer employees
who satisfy the compensation requirements and whose primary duty consists of:
    (1) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures, including
consulting with users, to determine hardware, software or system functional
specifications;
    (2) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, testing or
modification of computer systems or programs, including prototypes, based on and
related to user or system design specifications;
    (3) The design, documentation, testing, creation or modification of computer
programs related to machine operating systems; or
    (4) A combination of the aforementioned duties, the performance of which
requires the same level of skills.  (29 C.F.R. 541.400).

2)  AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS AND WEATHER OBSERVERS - NIGHT PAY & SUNDAY PAY:  If you
work at night as part of a regular tour of duty, you will earn a night differential
and receive an additional 10% of basic pay for any hours worked between 6pm and 6am.
 If you are a full-time employed (40 hours a week) and Sunday is part of your
regularly scheduled workweek, you are paid at your rate of basic pay plus a Sunday
premium of 25% of your basic rate for each hour of Sunday work which is not overtime
(i.e. occasional work on Sunday outside the normal tour of duty is considered
overtime work).


HAZARDOUS PAY DIFFERENTIAL: An 8 percent differential is applicable to employees
employed in a position that represents a high degree of hazard when working with or
in close proximity to ordinance, explosives, and incendiary materials.  This
includes work such as screening, blending, dying, mixing, and pressing of sensitive
ordance, explosives, and pyrotechnic compositions such as lead azide, black powder
and photoflash powder.  All dry-house activities involving propellants or explosives.
  Demilitarization, modification, renovation, demolition, and maintenance operations
on sensitive ordnance, explosives and incendiary materials.  All operations
involving regrading and cleaning of artillery ranges.

A 4 percent differential is applicable to employees employed in a position that
represents a low degree of hazard when working with, or in close proximity to
ordance, (or employees possibly adjacent to) explosives and incendiary materials
which involves potential injury such as laceration of hands, face, or arms of the
employee engaged in the operation,  irritation of the skin, minor burns and the
like; minimal damage to immediate or adjacent work area or equipment being used.
All operations involving, unloading, storage, and hauling of ordance, explosive, and
incendiary ordnance material other than small arms ammunition.  These differentials
are only applicable to work that has been specifically designated by the agency for
ordance, explosives, and incendiary material differential pay.

** UNIFORM ALLOWANCE **

If employees are required to wear uniforms in the performance of this contract
(either by the terms of the Government contract, by the employer, by the state or
local law, etc.), the cost of furnishing such uniforms and maintaining (by
laundering or dry cleaning) such uniforms is an expense that may not be borne by an
employee where such cost reduces the hourly rate below that required by the wage
determination. The Department of Labor will accept payment in accordance with the
following standards as compliance:

The contractor or subcontractor is required to furnish all employees with an
adequate number of uniforms without cost or to reimburse employees for the actual
cost of the uniforms.  In addition, where uniform cleaning and maintenance is made
the responsibility of the employee, all contractors and subcontractors subject to
this wage determination shall (in the absence of a bona fide collective bargaining
agreement providing for a different amount, or the furnishing of contrary
affirmative proof as to the actual cost), reimburse all employees for such cleaning
and maintenance at a rate of $3.35 per week (or $.67 cents per day).  However, in
those instances where the uniforms furnished are made of "wash and wear"
materials, may be routinely washed and dried with other personal garments, and do
not require any special treatment such as dry cleaning, daily washing, or commercial
laundering in order to meet the cleanliness or appearance standards set by the terms
of the Government contract, by the contractor, by law, or by the nature of the work,
there is no requirement that employees be reimbursed for uniform maintenance costs.

The duties of employees under job titles listed are those described in the
"Service Contract Act Directory of Occupations", Fifth Edition, April 2006,
unless otherwise indicated. Copies of the Directory are available on the Internet. A
links to the Directory may be found on the WHD home page at http://www.dol.
gov/esa/whd/ or through the Wage Determinations On-Line (WDOL) Web site at
http://wdol.gov/.

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATE {Standard Form
1444 (SF 1444)}

Conformance Process:

The contracting officer shall require that any class of service employee which is
not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to
be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage
determination), be classified by the contractor so as to provide a reasonable
relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted
classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination.  Such
conformed classes of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the
fringe benefits as are determined.  Such conforming process shall be initiated by
the contractor prior to the performance of contract work by such unlisted class(es)
of employees.  The conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits shall
be retroactive to the commencement date of the contract. {See Section 4.6 (C)(vi)}
When multiple wage determinations are included in a contract, a separate SF 1444
should be prepared for each wage determination to which a class(es) is to be
conformed.

The process for preparing a conformance request is as follows:

1) When preparing the bid, the contractor identifies the need for a conformed
occupation(s) and computes a proposed rate(s).

2) After contract award, the contractor prepares a written report listing in order
proposed classification title(s), a Federal grade equivalency (FGE) for each
proposed classification(s), job description(s), and rationale for proposed wage
rate(s), including information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the
authorized representative of the employees involved, or where there is no authorized
representative, the employees themselves.  This report should be submitted to the
contracting officer no later than 30 days after such unlisted class(es) of employees
performs any contract work.

3) The contracting officer reviews the proposed action and promptly submits a report
of the action, together with the agency's recommendations and pertinent
information including the position of the contractor and the employees, to the Wage
and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor,
for review.  (See section 4.6(b)(2) of Regulations 29 CFR Part 4).

4) Within 30 days of receipt, the Wage and Hour Division approves, modifies, or
disapproves the action via transmittal to the agency contracting officer, or
notifies the contracting officer that additional time will be required to process
the request.

5) The contracting officer transmits the Wage and Hour decision to the contractor.

6) The contractor informs the affected employees.

Information required by the Regulations must be submitted on SF 1444 or bond paper.

When preparing a conformance request, the "Service Contract Act Directory of
Occupations" (the Directory) should be used to compare job definitions to insure
that duties requested are not performed by a classification already listed in the
wage determination.  Remember, it is not the job title, but the required tasks that
determine whether a class is included in an established wage determination.
Conformances may not be used to artificially split, combine, or subdivide
classifications listed in the wage determination.





                                                       PAST PERFORMANCE LIST OF REFERENCES



|CONTRACT NUMBER               |DESCRIPTION OF  WORK PERFORMED                             |PERIOD  OF PERFORMANCE       |REFERENCE POINT OF CONTACT (POC)  |                          |CONTRACT AMOUNT                  |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |                          |(Base Period plus Options)       |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |PHONE                     |                                 |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |NUMBER                    |                                 |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |                          |                                 |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |                          |                                 |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |                          |                                 |
|                              |                                                           |                             |                                  |                          |                                 |

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, AND 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER F2J0W74112A001 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF

42

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

FA3010-14-R-0009
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL: a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect Calls)

23-Dec-2014
8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

MICHELLE A. BROWN
CODE

228-377-1801
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED 11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE

02:30 PM 28 Jan 2015
12. DISCOUNT TERMS

9. ISSUED BY 81ST CONTRACTING SQUADRON MICHELLE BROWN 310 M STREET, RM 102 KEESLER AFB MS 39534-2701

FA3010

X SET ASIDE: X SB

100 % FOR

HUBZONE SB 8(A) SVC-DISABLED VET-OWNED SB

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

TEL: 228-377-1801 FAX: 228-377-3298
15. DELIVER TO CODE

EMERGING SB SIZE STD: $30.0M NAICS: 512110 16. ADMINISTERED BY

X RFP

SEE SCHEDULE

17a.CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR

CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TEL.

FACILITY CODE

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO.

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a. UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES

SEE SCHEDULE
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

0

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1. 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3. 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.

ADDENDA ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN

1

COPIES

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REFERENCE OFFER DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS X SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a.UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER) 31c.

DATE SIGNED

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER
(TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

(TYPE OR PRINT)

TEL:

EMAIL:

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS (CONTINUED)
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/ SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT

PAGE 2 OF 42

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

SEE SCHEDULE

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: ______________________________________________________ 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT 32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER PARTIAL FINAL

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 41c. DATE 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV 3/2005) BACK Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 3 of 42 Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET

ITEM NO 0001

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY 6

UNIT Months

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Multimedia Services FFP Contractor shall provide all personnel, supervision, training, transportation, facilities, equipment, supplies, tools, labor, and other items necessary to perform Multimedia Services at Keesler AFB MS in accordance with Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement, for the period 1 Apr 15 - 30 Sep 15. FOB: Destination PURCHASE REQUEST NUMBER: F2J0W74112A001 SIGNAL CODE: A

NET AMT

ITEM NO 0002

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Reimbursable Parts COST Reimbursement for equipment purchased by the contractor on behalf of the government and repairs obtained by contractor which exceed the repair limit of $500.00. All costs must be coordinated and approved by the Government prior to any arrangements being made. This will be a Not to Exceed (NTE) CLIN (amount to be determined) upon award. Basic Period of Performance is: 01 Apr 15 - 30 Sep 15 FOB: Destination PURCHASE REQUEST NUMBER: F2J0W74112A001 SIGNAL CODE: A ESTIMATED COST

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 4 of 42

ITEM NO 1001
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY 12

UNIT Months

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Multimedia Services FFP Contractor shall provide all personnel, supervision, training, transportation, facilities, equipment, supplies, tools, labor, and other items necessary to perform Multimedia Services at Keesler AFB MS in accordance with Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement, for the period 1 Oct 15 - 30 Sep 16. FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A

NET AMT

ITEM NO 1002
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Reimbursable Parts COST Reimbursement for equipment purchased by the contractor on behalf of the government and repairs obtained by contractor which exceed the repair limit of $500.00. All costs must be coordinated and approved by the Government prior to any arrangements being made. This will be a Not to Exceed (NTE) CLIN (amount to be determined) upon award. Basic Period of Performance is: 01 Oct 15 - 30 Sep 16 FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A ESTIMATED COST

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 5 of 42 ITEM NO 2001
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY 12

UNIT Months

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Multimedia Services FFP Contractor shall provide all personnel, supervision, training, transportation, facilities, equipment, supplies, tools, labor, and other items necessary to perform Multimedia Services at Keesler AFB MS in accordance with Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement, for the period 1 Oct 16 - 30 Sep 17. FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A

NET AMT

ITEM NO 2002
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Reimbursable Parts COST Reimbursement for equipment purchased by the contractor on behalf of the government and repairs obtained by contractor which exceed the repair limit of $500.00. All costs must be coordinated and approved by the Government prior to any arrangements being made. This will be a Not to Exceed (NTE) CLIN (amount to be determined) upon award. Basic Period of Performance is: 01 Oct 16 - 30 Sep 17 FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A ESTIMATED COST

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 6 of 42 ITEM NO 3001
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY 12

UNIT Months

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Multimedia Services FFP Contractor shall provide all personnel, supervision, training, transportation, facilities, equipment, supplies, tools, labor, and other items necessary to perform Multimedia Services at Keesler AFB MS in accordance with Attachment 1, Performance Work Statement, for the period 1 Oct 17 - 30 Sep 18. FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A

NET AMT

ITEM NO 3002
OPTION

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT Each

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

Reimbursable Parts COST Reimbursement for equipment purchased by the contractor on behalf of the government and repairs obtained by contractor which exceed the repair limit of $500.00. All costs must be coordinated and approved by the Government prior to any arrangements being made. This will be a Not to Exceed (NTE) CLIN (amount to be determined) upon award. Basic Period of Performance is: 01 Oct 16 - 30 Sep 17 FOB: Destination SIGNAL CODE: A ESTIMATED COST

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.203-3 52.203-6 Alt I 52.203-11 52.203-12 52.204-4

Gratuities Restrictions On Subcontractor Sales To The Government (Sep 2006) -- Alternate I Certification And Disclosure Regarding Payments To Influence Certain Federal Transactions Limitation On Payments To Influence Certain Federal Transactions Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper

APR 1984 OCT 1995 SEP 2007 OCT 2010 MAY 2011

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 7 of 42 52.204-7 52.204-9 52.204-10 52.209-6 System for Award Management JUL 2013 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel JAN 2011 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier SubcontractJUL 2013 Awards Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting AUG 2013 With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment Information Regarding Responsibility Matters JUL 2013 Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding JUL 2013 Responsibility Matters Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items APR 2014 Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items MAY 2014 Evaluation Of Options JUL 1990 Notice Of Total Small Business Set-Aside NOV 2011 Utilization of Small Business Concerns OCT 2014 Limitations On Subcontracting NOV 2011 Convict Labor JUN 2003 Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers MAY 2014 Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities FEB 1999 Equal Opportunity MAR 2007 Equal Opportunity for Veterans JUL 2014 Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities JUL 2014 Employment Reports on Veterans JUL 2014 Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor DEC 2010 Relations Act Service Contract Labor Standards MAY 2014 Fair Labor Standards Act And Service Contract Labor MAY 2014 Standards - Price Adjustment (Multiple Year And Option Contracts) Combating Trafficking in Persons FEB 2009 Employment Eligibility Verification AUG 2013 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information MAY 2011 Acquisition of EPEAT -Registered Personal Computer JUN 2014 Products Encouraging Contractor Policies To Ban Text Messaging AUG 2011 While Driving Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases JUN 2008 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain DEC 2012 Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-- Representation and Certifications. Insurance - Work On A Government Installation JAN 1997 Availability Of Funds APR 1984 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--System for Award JUL 2013 Management Protest After Award AUG 1996 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim OCT 2004 Site Visit APR 1984 Protection Of Government Buildings, Equipment, And APR 1984 Vegetation Continuity Of Services JAN 1991 Bankruptcy JUL 1995 Government Property (Apr 2012) Alternate I APR 2012 Use And Charges APR 2012 Inspection Of Services--Fixed Price AUG 1996

52.209-7 52.209-9 52.212-1 52.212-4 52.217-5 52.219-6 52.219-8 52.219-14 52.222-3 52.222-17 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-35 52.222-36 52.222-37 52.222-40 52.222-41 52.222-43

52.222-50 52.222-54 52.223-5 52.223-16 52.223-18 52.225-13 52.225-25

52.228-5 52.232-18 52.232-33 52.233-3 52.233-4 52.237-1 52.237-2 52.237-3 52.242-13 52.245-1 Alt I 52.245-9 52.246-4

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 8 of 42 52.253-1 252.201-7000 252.203-7000 Computer Generated Forms JAN 1991 Contracting Officer's Representative DEC 1991 Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD SEP 2011 Officials 252.203-7002 Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights SEP 2013 252.203-7005 Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD NOV 2011 Officials 252.204-7003 Control Of Government Personnel Work Product APR 1992 252.204-7004 Alt A System for Award Management Alternate A FEB 2014 252.205-7000 Provision Of Information To Cooperative Agreement Holders DEC 1991 252.209-7001 Disclosure of Ownership or Control by the Government of a JAN 2009 Terrorist Country 252.209-7004 Subcontracting With Firms That Are Owned or Controlled By MAR 2014 The Government of a Terrorist Country 252.211-7007 Reporting of Government-Furnished Property AUG 2012 252.223-7006 Prohibition On Storage, Treatment, and Disposal of Toxic or SEP 2014 Hazardous Materials 252.225-7012 Preference For Certain Domestic Commodities FEB 2013 252.225-7048 Export-Controlled Items JUN 2013 252.226-7001 Utilization of Indian Organizations and Indian-Owned SEP 2004 Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns 252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving JUN 2012 Reports 252.232-7010 Levies on Contract Payments DEC 2006 252.237-7010 Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor JUN 2013 Personnel 252.243-7001 Pricing Of Contract Modifications DEC 1991 252.243-7002 Requests for Equitable Adjustment DEC 2012 252.247-7023 Transportation of Supplies by Sea APR 2014

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT

52.212-2

EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)

(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factor(s) shall be used to evaluate offers: (1) Past Performance (2) Price Past performance is significantly more important than price when being evaluated. (b) Initially offers shall be ranked according to price. The price evaluation will document the reasonableness and affordability of the proposed total evaluated price. An offeror's proposed prices will be determined by multiplying the quantities identified in the Pricing Schedule by the unit price for each item to confirm the extended amount of each. Copies of the Pricing Schedule will be necessary in order to submit a proposal for each Option Year. (c) The contracting officer shall seek relevant performance information on all offerors based on (1) information obtained from the Contractor Performance Assessment Report (CPAR) system (2) references provided by the offeror in Attachment 3 to this solicitation and (3) data independently obtained from other government and

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 9 of 42 commercial sources. Relevant performance includes performance of efforts involving multimedia services that are similar or greater in scope, magnitude and complexity than the effort described in this solicitation. The offeror may be asked to submit additional references that can provide relevant past performance information if the contracting officer cannot locate sufficient CPAR information. The purpose of the past performance evaluation is to allow the government to assess the offeror's ability to perform the effort described in this RFP, based on the offeror's demonstrated present and past performance. The assessment process will result in an overall performance confidence assessment of Substantial Confidence, Satisfactory Confidence, Limited Confidence, No Confidence, or Unknown Confidence as defined below. Offerors with no relevant past or present performance history or the offeror's performance record is so limited that no confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned shall receive the rating "Unknown Confidence," meaning the rating is treated neither favorably nor unfavorably. Substantial Confidence: Based on the offeror's performance record, the government has a high expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Satisfactory Confidence: Based on the offeror's performance record, the government has an expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

Limited Confidence: Based on the offeror's performance record, the government has a low expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.

No Confidence: Based on the offeror's performance record, the government has no expectation that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.

Unknown Confidence: No performance record is identifiable or the offeror's performance record is so limited that no confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned. (d) If the lowest priced evaluated offer is judged to have a Substantial Confidence performance assessment, that offer represents the best value for the government and the evaluation process stops at this point. Award shall be made to that offeror without further consideration of any other offers. (e) If the lowest priced offeror is not judged to have a Substantial Confidence performance confidence assessment, the next lowest priced offeror will be evaluated and the process will continue (in order by price) until an offeror is judged to have a Substantial Confidence performance confidence assessment or until all offerors are evaluated. The Source Selection Authority shall then make an integrated assessment best value award decision. (f) In evaluating past performance, the government reserves the right to give greater consideration to information on those contracts deemed most relevant to the effort described in this solicitation. (g) Offerors may be asked to clarify certain aspects of their proposal and respond to adverse past performance information to which the offeror has not previously has an opportunity to respond. Adverse past performance is defined as past performance information that supports a less than satisfactory rating on any evaluation element or any unfavorable comments received from sources without a formal rating system. Communication conducted to resolve minor or clerical errors will not constitute discussions and the contracting officer reserves the right to award a contract without the opportunity for proposal revision. (h) Offerors shall propose on all items. If there is to be no charge for an item, an entry such as "no charge", or the letters "N/C" or "0" must be made in the unit price column. Any offer that fails to cite a price for each item or fails to make an entry that indicates services will be provided at no charge will be rejected as nonconforming to this solicitation.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 10 of 42

(i) Only firm fixed-price offers will be evaluated. An offer using a sliding price scale or subject to escalation based on any contingency will not be accepted and will be considered nonconforming to this solicitation. (j) The government intends to award a contract without discussions with respective offerors. The government, however, reserves the right to conduct discussion if deemed in its best interest. (k) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (l) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2014) ALTERNATE I (OCT 2014) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision: "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 11 of 42

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 12 of 42 Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-- (1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Small disadvantaged business concern, consistent with 13 CFR 124.1002, means a small business concern under the size standard applicable to the acquisition, that-(1) Is at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned (as defined at 13 CFR 124.105) by-(i) One or more socially disadvantaged (as defined at 13 CFR 124.103) and economically disadvantaged (as defined at 13 CFR 124.104) individuals who are citizens of the United States; and (ii) Each individual claiming economic disadvantage has a net worth not exceeding $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled (as defined at 13.CFR 124.106) by individuals, who meet the criteria in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern --

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 13 of 42

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted electronically on the SAM website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (p) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.) These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___ business concern. ) is, ( ___ ) is not a small

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___ ) is, ( ___ ) is not a womenowned small business concern. Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a womenowned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 14 of 42 (i) It ___ is, ___ is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ___ ] is, [ ___ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-(i) It [ ___ ] is, [ ___ ] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ___ ] is, [ ___ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a womenowned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___ ) is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: _____________________________________________ (10) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) of this provision.) ___ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands,Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (12) Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls):

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 15 of 42 ___ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ___ ) has, ( ___ ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and (ii) It ( ___ ) has, ( ___ ) has not, filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It ( ___ ) has developed and has on file, ( ___ ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ( ___ ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product,"

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 16 of 42 "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. ___ ___ ___ COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___ ___ ___

(List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. ___ ___ ___ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements-- Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___ ___ ___

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 17 of 42 LINE ITEM NO. ___ ___ ___ COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: ___ ___ ___ Country of Origin: ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 18 of 42 Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: ___ ___ ___ Country of Origin: ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Trade Agreements''. (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No.: ___ ___ ___ Country of Origin: ___ ___ ___

[List as necessary]

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American statute. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) ( ___ ) Are, ( ___ ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 19 of 42

(2) ( ___ ) Have, ( ___ ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) ( ___ ) Are, ( ___ ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ ___ ] Have, [ ___ ] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed End Product

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 20 of 42 Listed End Product: ___ ___ ___ Listed Countries of Origin: ___ ___ ___

(2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) ( ___ )(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ( ___ ) (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ( ___ )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ( ___ ) Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Labor Standards. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.) ( ___ ) (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ___ ) does ( ___ ) does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. ( ___ ) (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ___ ) does ( ___ ) does not certify that--

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 21 of 42

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Labor Standards wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ( ___ ) TIN: --------------------. ( ___ ) TIN has been applied for.

( ___ ) TIN is not required because: ( ___ ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ( ___ ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ( ___ ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 22 of 42 (4) Type of organization. ( ___ ) Sole proprietorship; ( ___ ) Partnership; ( ___ ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ( ___ ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ( ___ ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ( ___ ) Foreign government; ( ___ ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ( ___ ) Other ----------. (5) Common parent. ( ___ ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ( ___ ) Name and TIN of common parent: Name ___ . TIN - ___ . (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 23 of 42 (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (p) Ownership or Control of Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations when there is a requirement to be registered in SAM or a requirement to have a DUNS Number in the solicitation. (1) The Offeror represents that it [--] has or [--] does not have an immediate owner. If the Offeror has more than one immediate owner (such as a joint venture), then the Offeror shall respond to paragraph (2) and if applicable, paragraph (3) of this provision for each participant in the joint venture. (2) If the Offeror indicates ``has'' in paragraph (p)(1) of this provision, enter the following information: Immediate owner CAGE code: ___ Immediate owner legal name: ___ (Do not use a ``doing business as'' name) Is the immediate owner owned or controlled by another entity: [ ___ ] Yes or [ ___ ] No. (3) If the Offeror indicates ``yes'' in paragraph (p)(2) of this provision, indicating that the immediate owner is owned or controlled by another entity, then enter the following information: Highest-level owner CAGE code: ___ Highest-level owner legal name: ___ (Do not use a ``doing business as'' name)

(End of Provision)

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEVIATION 2013-O0019) (OCT 2014)

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 24 of 42 (a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (b) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clause in this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (b)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

____ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012).

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 25 of 42 (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S.- Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause)

52.217-8

OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 15 calendar days prior to expiration date of the contract. For the purpose of this clause, the date mailed or otherwise furnished to the Contractor will be considered notification.

52.217-9

OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 15 calendar days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 54 months.

52.219-1

SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (APR 2012) - ALTERNATE I (APR 2011)

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 512110. (2) The small business size standard is $30,000,000.00. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 26 of 42 (2) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (6) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (7) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (8) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 27 of 42 or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:____________.) Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (9) (Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.) The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls: ____ Black American. ____ Hispanic American. ____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern," means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern," means a small business concern --

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 28 of 42 (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm's status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of provision)

52.219-28

POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (JULY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Long-term contract means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options. However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority. Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (c) of this clause. Such a concern is ``not dominant in its field of operation'' when it does not exercise a controlling or major influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of employees, financial resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials, processes, patents, license agreements, facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity. (b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size status according to paragraph (e) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (g) of this clause, upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract. (2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 29 of 42

(3) For long-term contracts-(i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and (ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any option thereafter. (c) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards. (d) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees. (e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation required by paragraph (b) of this clause by validating or updating all its representations in the Representations and Certifications section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation or update. (f) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause. (g) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have a representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed: The Contractor represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern under NAICS Code 512110- assigned to contract number TBD . (Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title). (End of clause)

52.222-42

STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 2014)

In compliance with the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332. THIS STATEMENT IS FOR INFORMATION ONLY: IT IS NOT A WAGE DETERMINATION Employee Class 13072 - Photographer II 13074 - Photographer IV 13041 - Illustrator I Monetary Wage $14.04/per hour $21.56/per hour $15.71/per hour

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 30 of 42 13042 - Illustrator II $19.46/per hour

a. Total fringe benefit factor is 36.25 percent b. Elements and factors for fringe benefits: Element Insurance and Health Benefits Retirement Benefit Medicare Benefit Miscellaneous Fringe Benefits Factor 7.0 percent 26.1 percent 1.45 percent 1.7 percent

c. Ten paid holidays as follows: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. d. Paid annual leave (vacation) as follows: (a) 2 hours of annual leave each week for an employee with less than 3 years of service; (b) 3 hours of annual leave each week for an employee with 3 but less than 15 years of service; (c) 4 hours of annual leave each week for an employee with 15 years of service. (In the foregoing clause, the basic hourly rate by classification above shall be Wage Board Pay Schedule step 2 for non-supervisory service employees and step 3 for supervisory service employees.

52.233-2

SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from 81 CONS/LGCB, 310 M Street, Keesler AFB, MS 39534-2147. (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision)

52.252-1

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm

52.252-2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 31 of 42

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm

52.252-5

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN PROVISIONS (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of"(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. (b) The use in this solicitation of any Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.

52.252-6

AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Defense Federal Acquistion Regulation Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.

252.209-7999 REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER ANY FEDERAL LAW (DEVIATION 2012-O0004) (JAN 2012) (a) In accordance with sections 8124 and 8125 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012,(Pub. L. 112-74) none of the funds made available by that Act may be used to enter into a contract with any corporation that-- (1) Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government. (2) Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government. (b) The Offeror represents that-- (1) It is [ ___ ] is not [ ___ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability,

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 32 of 42 (2) It is [ ___ ] is not [ ___ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months. (End of provision)

252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (MAY 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization. Document type means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF). Local processing office (LPO) is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system. (b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports. (c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall-(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the System for Award Management at https://www.acquisition.gov; and (2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this Web site. (d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the "Web Based Training" link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/. (e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via Web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol. (f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract/order: (1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s). _Combo___ (2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the contracting officer. _TBD___ (3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 33 of 42 system. Routing Data Table* -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Field Name in WAWF Data to be entered in WAWF -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Pay Official DoDAAC _F67100___ Issue By DoDAAC _FA3010___ Admin DoDAAC _FA3010___ Inspect By DoDAAC _F2J0W7___ Service Approver (DoDAAC) _F2J0W7___ Service Acceptor (DoDAAC) _F2J0W7___ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request. (5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the email address identified below in the "Send Additional Email Notifications" field of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system. _TBD___ (g) WAWF point of contact. (1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's WAWF point of contact. _TBD___ (2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988.

252.232-7007

LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT'S OBLIGATION (APR 2014)

(a) Contract line item(s) * is/are incrementally funded. For this/these item(s), the sum of $---- * of the total price is presently available for payment and allotted to this contract. An allotment schedule is set forth in paragraph (j) of this clause. (b) For items(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including reimbursement in the event of termination of those item(s) for the Government's convenience, approximates the total amount currently allotted to the contract. The Contractor is not authorized to continue work on those item(s) beyond that point. The Government will not be obligated in any event to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the contract for those item(s) regardless of anything to the contrary in the clause entitled "TERMINATION FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT." As used in this clause, the total amount payable by the Government in the event of termination of applicable contract line item(s) for convenience includes costs, profit and estimated termination settlement costs for those item(s). (c) Notwithstanding the dates specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, the Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least ninety days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's best judgment, the work will reach the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including any cost for termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract for performance of the applicable item(s). The notification will state (1) the estimated date when that point will be reached and (2) an estimate of additional funding, if any, needed to continue performance of applicable line items up to the next scheduled date for allotment of funds identified in paragraph (j) of this clause, or to a mutually agreed

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 34 of 42 upon substitute date. The notification will also advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional funds that will be required for the timely performance of the item(s) funded pursuant to this clause, for subsequent period as may be specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, or otherwise agreed to by the parties. If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date identified in the Contractor's notification, or by an agreed substitute date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any item(s) for which additional funds have not been allotted, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "TERMINATION FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT". (d) When additional funds are allotted for continued performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the parties will agree as to the period of contract performance which will be covered by the funds. The provisions of paragraph (b) through (d) of this clause will apply in like manner to the additional allotted funds and agreed substitute date, and the contract will be modified accordingly. (e) If, solely by reason of failure of the Government to allot additional funds, by the dates indicated below, in amounts sufficient for timely performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the performance of the work under this contract and if additional funds are allotted, an equitable adjustment will be made in the price or prices (including appropriate target, billing, and ceiling prices where applicable) of the item(s), or in the time of delivery, or both. Failure to agree to any such equitable adjustment hereunder will be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause entitled "disputes." (f) The Government may at any time prior to termination allot additional funds for the performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause. (g) The termination provisions of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled "DEFAULT." The provisions of this clause are limited to work and allotment of funds for the contract line item(s) set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. This clause no longer applies once the contract if fully funded except with regard to the rights or obligations of the parties concerning equitable adjustments negotiated under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this clause. (h) Nothing in this clause affects the right of the Government to this contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT." (i) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as authorization of voluntary services whose acceptance is otherwise prohibited under 31 U.S.C. 1342. (j) The parties contemplate that the Government will allot funds to this contract in accordance with the following schedule: On execution of contract $-- * (month) (day), (year) $---- * (month) (day), (year) $---- * (month) (day), (year) $---- *

*TBD at time of award

5352.201-9101 OMBUDSMAN (NOV 2012)

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 35 of 42 (a) An ombudsman has been appointed to hear and facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential offerors, and others for this acquisition. When requested, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the authority of the program manager, contracting officer, or source selection official. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman may refer the interested party to another official who can resolve the concern. (b) Before consulting with an ombudsman, interested parties must first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution. Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines for any other processes (e.g., agency level bid protests, GAO bid protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions, contests of OMB Circular A-76 competition performance decisions). (c) If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, the interested party may contact the ombudsman, Deputy Director of Contracting (AFICA/KT) David Jones, 2035 1st Street West, Ste 1, JBSA Randolph AFB, TX 781504304, phone (210) 652-1722, facsimile (210) 652-8344, david.jones.3@us.af.mil or the alternate obudsman Stephen G. Smith, Chief, Clearance & Program Support Division (AFICA/KTC), phone (210) 652-7075, stephen.smith@us.af.mil. Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations that cannot be resolved at the Center/MAJCOM/DRU/HQ AFICA/AFISRA/SMC ombudsman level, may be brought by the interested party for further consideration to the Air Force ombudsman, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (ADAS) (Contracting), SAF/AQC, 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1060, phone number (571) 256-2395, facsimile number (571) 256-2431. (d) The ombudsman has no authority to render a decision that binds the agency. (e) Do not contact the ombudsman to request copies of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical requirements. Such inquiries shall be directed to the Contracting Officer.

5352.223-9001 HEALTH AND SAFETY ON GOVERNMENT INSTALLATIONS (NOV 2012) (a) In performing work under this contract on a Government installation, the contractor shall: (1) Take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent accidents and preserve the health and safety of contractor and Government personnel performing or in any way coming in contact with the performance of this contract; and (2) Take such additional immediate precautions as the contracting officer may reasonably require for health and safety purposes. (b) The contracting officer may, by written order, direct Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standards and/or health/safety standards as may be required in the performance of this contract and any adjustments resulting from such direction will be in accordance with the Changes clause of this contract. (c) Any violation of these health and safety rules and requirements, unless promptly corrected as directed by the contracting officer, shall be grounds for termination of this contract in accordance with the Default clause of this contract. (End of clause)

5352.242-9000 CONTRACTOR ACCESS TO AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS (NOV 2012)

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 36 of 42 (a) The contractor shall obtain base identification and vehicle passes, if required, for all contractor personnel who make frequent visits to or perform work on the Air Force installation(s) cited in the contract. Contractor personnel are required to wear or prominently display installation identification badges or contractor-furnished, contractor identification badges while visiting or performing work on the installation. (b) The contractor shall submit a written request on company letterhead to the contracting officer listing the following: contract number, location of work site, start and stop dates, and names of employees and subcontractor employees needing access to the base. The letter will also specify the individual(s) authorized to sign for a request for base identification credentials or vehicle passes. The contracting officer will endorse the request and forward it to the issuing base pass and registration office or Security Forces for processing. When reporting to the registration office, the authorized contractor individual(s) should provide a valid driver's license, current vehicle registration, valid vehicle insurance certificate, and social security card to obtain a vehicle pass. (c) During performance of the contract, the contractor shall be responsible for obtaining required identification for newly assigned personnel and for prompt return of credentials and vehicle passes for any employee who no longer requires access to the work site. (d) When work under this contract requires unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the contractor shall comply with the contract Performance Work Statement citing the appropriate paragraphs as applicable. (e) Upon completion or termination of the contract or expiration of the identification passes, the prime contractor shall ensure that all base identification passes issued to employees and subcontractor employees are returned to the issuing office. (f) Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment. (End of clause)

5352.242-9001 COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CACs) FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (NOV 2012) (a) For installation(s)/location(s) cited in the contract, contractors shall ensure Common Access Cards (CACs) are obtained by all contract or subcontract personnel who meet one or both of the following criteria: (1) Require logical access to Department of Defense computer networks and systems in either: (i) the unclassified environment; or (ii) the classified environment where authorized by governing security directives. (2) Perform work which requires the use of a CAC for installation entry control or physical access to facilities and buildings. (b) Contractors and their personnel shall use the following procedures to obtain CACs: (1) Contractors shall provide a listing of personnel who require a CAC to the contracting officer. The government will provide the contractor instruction on how to complete the Contractor Verification System (CVS) application and then notify the contractor when approved. (2) Contractor personnel shall obtain a CAC from the nearest Real Time Automated Personnel Identification Documentation System (RAPIDS) Issuing Facility (typically the local Military Personnel Flight (MPF)).

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 37 of 42

(c) While visiting or performing work on installation(s)/location(s), contractor personnel shall wear or prominently display the CAC as required by the governing local policy. (d) During the performance period of the contract, the contractor shall: (1) Within 7 working days of any changes to the listing of the contract personnel authorized a CAC, provide an updated listing to the contracting officer who will provide the updated listing to the authorizing government official; (2) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days of a change in status for contractor personnel who no longer require logical or physical access; (3) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days following a CACs expiration date; and (4) Report lost or stolen CACs in accordance with local policy/directives. (e) Within 7 working days following completion/termination of the contract, the contractor shall return all CACs issued to their personnel to the issuing office or the location specified by local policy/directives. (f) Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment. (End of clause)

K-103 ENTRY/ACCESS REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL REQUIRING ACCESS TO KEESLER AFB (81 CONS) (JUN 2013) APPLICABILITY. a. Except as provided in Applicability paragraph (b) of this clause, this clause applies to services and construction contracts requiring entry/access to Keesler AFB with periods of performance (PoP) exceeding 60 days. (1) For the purposes of this clause, contract PoP begins at "notice to proceed" (NTP) (construction) or performance start date (services). The PoP end date is based on the contract completion date. (2) The clause shall be included (flow-down) to subcontracts at every tier b. This clause does not apply to-- (1) Contracts requiring entry/access to Keesler AFB with periods of performance (PoP) 60 days or less. Entry/access to Keesler AFB not covered under this clause will be coordinated between the Contractor and the 81st Security Forces Squadron (81 SFS). c. When work under this contract requires unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the Contractor shall comply with AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, and AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, as applicable. d. Contractor personnel are not covered by FAR 52.222-3, Convict Labor, for the purposes of entry/access to installations/locations. BADGING SYSTEM DATA REQUIREMENTS.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 38 of 42 a. The Contractor shall provide the following to the 81st Contracting Squadron: (1) "Listing of personnel requiring access/entry." Documents shall be marked as FOUO as a minimum. The list shall contain the following: (i) Contract number (ii) Contract award date (iii) The PoP dates identified in Applicability paragraph (a)(1) above. For construction, if NTP is not issued prior to list submission, state "no NTP". (iv) Work site(s) or location(s). (v) Each employee's full name and social security number (SSN). For those without SSNs, a working visa or Resident Alien number must be provided or base entry will be denied. (vi) Identify up to two Contractor personnel for designation as "sponsor" authorities. Badges will identify the Contractor personnel with sponsorship privileges. (2) Completed KAFB Form 299 shall authorize Security Forces to fingerprint Contractor personnel and conduct additional background checks. The consent form will outline the following: (i) The Contractor personnel for the purpose of the KAFB Form 299. (ii) The information on the form is collected IAW 18 U.S.C. 1382 and DoD Directive 5200.8, both of which permit installation commanders to limit access to installations for security reasons. (iii) Completion of the form is voluntary. (iv) Agreement to provide a specimen of fingerprints.

(v) Awareness of a list of "disqualifying factors." (vi) Consent and authorization for Security Forces to conduct background screening and to compare fingerprints against State and Federal criminal databases. (vii) Knowing and willful false statements on the form can be punished by a fine, imprisonment, or both (10 U.S.C. 1001). (viii) The consent form shall remain valid for 24 months after the end of the contract. b. The Contractor personnel list and consent form(s) shall be submitted as follows:

(1) 81 SFS/PASS & ID e-mail account: keeslerpassandid@keesler.af.mil. Personnel list must be submitted IAW the PWS. The signed KAFB Form 299 must be submitted in person to the 81 SFS/PASS & ID office. (2) Refer questions regarding the Contractor personnel list and KAFB Form 299 to 81 SFS/PASS & ID at 228-3771845 or 228-377-3844. BACKGROUND CHECKS.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 39 of 42 a. Upon receipt of the KAFB Form 299 with a copy of Drivers License and Social Security card, a background check will be accomplished. Background checks will be categorized as favorable or unfavorable. Unfavorable background checks contain any one of the "disqualifying factors." Any person with an unfavorable background check will be denied entry/access to the installation. b. "Disqualifying factors" include: (1) Barred from entry/access to any military installation or facility. (2) Wanted by federal or civil law enforcement authorities. (3) Name appears on any federal agencies "watch list" or "hit list" for criminal behavior or terrorist activity. (4) Conviction of firearms or explosives violation within the past seven (7) years. (5) Incarcerated regardless of offense or violation. (6) Conviction of aggravated assault, armed robbery, felony drug possession, drug possession with intent to sell, or drug distribution within the past seven (7) years. (7) Conviction of espionage, sabotage, treason, terrorism, murder, sexual assault, rape, or child molestation. (8) Terrorist or terroristic threats or repetitive history of criminal history. (9) Currently serving parole or probation for a felony case. (10) U.S. citizenship, immigration status, or Social Security Account Number cannot be verified.

c. An unfavorable background check/denial may be appealed through the 81 SFS/PASS & ID. The appeal shall include a signed letter of rebuttal and any associated supporting documentation to the 81 SFS/PASS & ID. d. Given a reasonable cause, condition, or reason, these requirements do not circumvent the installation/location commander's unilateral authority to deny or withdraw any individual's entry/access to an installation/location. BADGE AND FINGERPRINT SCHEDULE. 81 SFS/Pass & ID will notify the Contractor upon completion of background checks. Badging and fingerprinting shall be scheduled by contacting the Contractor by phone. Contractor personnel shall report to the 81 SFS/Pass & ID with a photo ID issued by a federal/state organization (i.e. Drivers License, State ID card, U.S. Passport, etc.). If no photo ID is shown, a badge will not be issued. CHANGE IN EMPLOYEE ENTRY/ACCESS STATUS (DELETIONS). a. No later than five (5) workdays after a change in status for Contractor personnel requiring entry/access, the Contractor shall return identified badges to the 81 SFS/Pass & ID. b. The Contractor shall notify the Contractor personnel of their change in status for entry/access to Keesler AFB. c. Unfavorable fingerprint results shall constitute immediate deactivation of the issued badge(s) to the disqualified Contractor personnel. (1) 81 SFS may confiscate badge(s) of the Contractor personnel present on base at the time of the unfavorable result notification. 81 SFS may escort the Contractor personnel from KAFB IAW Security Forces guidelines.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 40 of 42

(2) 81 SFS/Pass & ID will notify Contractor of an unfavorable fingerprint result and request the Contractor to return the badge IAW this PWS (unless already confiscated). BADGE LOSS/REPLACEMENT. a. Contractor personnel requiring a replacement badge shall call the 81 SFS/Pass &ID at 228-377-1845 to schedule a badge appointment. b. Lost badge(s) require a signed letter from the Contractor and Contractor personnel that lost the badge requesting replacement of badge(s) due to loss or damage. BADGE DISPLAY (FOR INDIVIDUALS). All identification badges shall be prominently worn/displayed in a visible manner. Safety related exceptions to this requirement shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer. CONTRACT COMPLETION, RETURN OF BADGES. No later than five (5) workdays after contract completion, the Contractor shall return all badges to 81 SFS/Pass & ID. All badges are returned collectively by the Contractor, not incrementally/individually by the Contractor personnel. The badge turn-in shall identify the contract name.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR COMMERCIAL SOLICITATIONS AND CONTRACTS

AVAILABILITY OF UTILITY SERVICES Notwithstanding the provisions of contract clause FAR 52.236-14, Availability and Use of Utility Services, all reasonable required amounts of water, gas, electricity, etc., essential to contract performance, will be made available at no cost to the contractor from existing systems, outlets and supplies. All temporary connections, outlets and distribution lines, as may be required, shall be installed by the contractor at the contractor's own expense.

PERFORMANCE CONFERENCE Offerors are hereby advised if they are awarded a contract as a result of this solicitation, they may be required to appear at the 81st Contracting Squadron, 310 M Street, Bldg 4605, Keesler AFB, MS, to attend a Preperformance Conference prior to commencement of any work on the military installation.

ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS The following paragraphs of this provision are tailored as follows: (b) Submission of Offers: Offerors will submit one original, hard copy proposal to include all items requested in this paragraph, and as stated in the solicitation. Proposals must be hand-carried or mailed to the address listed in solicitation block 9, page 1 of 42. Email or fax proposals WILL NOT be accepted. Proposals must be signed/dated in blocks 30a-30c of the solicitation with the company's name/address/phone number and cage code provided in block 17a. All pages requiring fill-in information must be returned with the offeror's proposal and must be received by the date/time provided in solicitation block 8, page 1 of 42, unless otherwise changed via solicitation amendment. Solicitation amendments must be acknowledged in writing or the proposal may be considered non-responsive. It is the offeror's responsibility to check www.fbo.gov for amendments issued against this solicitation and respond accordingly.

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 41 of 42 (c) Period of Acceptance of Offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (e) Deleted.

ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS The following paragraphs of this clause are tailored as follows: (a) Inspection/Acceptance. Inspection and acceptance of the services will be performed at Keesler Air Force Base, MS, by 81 OSF.

ADDENDUM TO 52.217-8, OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES The contract will include three 1-year option periods and FAR Clause 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, with the potential to extend the contract an additional 6 months beyond the awarded contract performance period. In the event the Government requires continued performance, the Government's evaluation of prices proposed will be considered fair and reasonable as applied to an extension of services. Should an extension of services be required rates will be adjusted only as result of revisions to applicable prevailing Department of Labor wage rates.

Reference clause 52.228-5, INSURANCE - WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION The Contractor shall, at its own expense, procure and thereafter maintain the following kinds of insurance with respect to performance under the contract. (a) Workman's Compensation and Employers Liability Insurance as required by law except that if this contract is to be performed in a State which does not require or permit private insurance, then compliance with the statutory or administrative requirements in any such State will be satisfactory. The required Workmen's Compensation insurance shall extend to cover employer's liability for accidental bodily injury or death and for occupational disease with a minimum liability limit of $100,000. b) General Liability Insurance. Bodily injury liability insurance, in the minimum limits of $500,000 per occurrence shall be required on the comprehensive form of policy. (c) Automobile Liability Insurance. This insurance shall be required on the comprehensive form of policy and shall provide bodily injury liability and property damage liability covering the operation of all automobiles used in connection with the performance of the contract. At least the minimum limits of $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $20,000 per occurrence for property damage shall be required.

Reference Clause 252.232-7007, LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT'S OBLIGATION All contract line items are expected to be incrementally funded. The information in paragraph (a) will be provided at contract award for the Basic Period and with the exercise of each option period subject to the availability of funds. Notice to Offeror(s)/Supplier(s): Funds are not presently available for this effort. No award will be made under this solicitation until funds are available. The Government reserves the right to cancel this solicitation, either before or after the closing date for receipt of proposals. In the event the Government cancels this solicitation, the Government has no obligation to reimburse an offeror for any costs.

Reference Clause 52.237-1, SITE VISIT A site visit will be held 8 Jan 15, 9:00 AM CST. All interested offerors are encouraged to inspect the site prior to submitting a proposal. If you plan on attending the site visit, please contact Michelle Brown at

FA3010-14-R-0009 Page 42 of 42 228-377-1801, michelle.brown.1@us.af.mil or Kimberley Alvarez at 228-377-1837, kimberley.alvarez.1@us.af.mil no later than 1200 PM CST on 6 Jan 15 to confirm attendance. Each vendor is limited to two attendees. The number of attendees, to include name/phone/company name, should be included in the confirmation. Every effort will be made to arrange government transportation to/from the site visit; however, if transportation cannot be arranged or is cancelled in the event of mission requirements, please be prepared to obtain a base pass by bringing required documentation necessary to gain access. Required documentation is all of the following: a valid driver's license, current vehicle registration, proof of insurance and social security card must be provided for each vehicle. All individuals entering the installation must have picture identification. Technical and Contracting personnel will attend the site visit and all questions/answers received will be posted to www.fbo.gov.

DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS All parties have until 14 Jan 15, 12:00 PM CST to submit written questions in reference to the solicitation, its accompanying attachments, and/or any other matters referencing the requirement to Michelle Brown, michelle.brown.1@us.af.mil or Kimberley Alvarez, kimberley.alvarez.1@us.af.mil. Answers to questions shall be posted to www.fbo.gov on/around 3-5 business days thereafter.

ATTACHMENT 3, PAST PERFORMANCE LIST OF REFERENCES This attachment is provided for interested offerors to submit past performance contact information, in a uniform format. The information provided by the offeror may be used to obtain additional past performance when no CPAR record is available. Offerors are encouraged to submit past performance references (no more than 3) in Attachment 3 and return with their offer.

SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS OR ATTACHMENTS Attachment 1 Performance Work Statement dated 10 Dec 14 U.S. Department of Labor Wage Determination 2005-2302, Rev 14 dtd 25 Jul 14 Past Performance List of References 48 pages

Attachment 2

10 pages

Attachment 3

1 page

