This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items/services prepared in accordance with the format in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 12, Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotations are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This solicitation is being issued as a Request for Quotation (RFQ) No. 0040-11, and is in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 12.6, Acquisition of Commercial Items. This announcement is considered an unrestricted procurement. The North American Industry Classification System (NAIC) Code for this requirement is 519130. This solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through FAC 2005-51, effective April 1, 2011. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) contemplates the award of a Firm-fixed price type contract to access an On-line Publication Database Subscription Services to include items as stated in CLIN 0001 below. The period of performance will be for ten (10) months, commencing from date of award up through ten months thereafter. The contractor must be in compliance with the web-based internet information and applications section 508(c) Paragraph 1194.22, of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Furthermore, all future versions of webbased applications or services offered shall be in compliance with Section 508(c). Businesses and distributors that specialize in the distribution and on-line access of periodicals and publications that can satisfy the requirements listed below are encouraged to submit a quotation. The quotation package shall include the following items: Academic Search Premier; EconLit with Full Text; Gallery Watch CRS Reports; PsycARTICLES; PSYCINFO; SocINDEX with Full Text; and Psychology and Behavioral Sciences Collections. The following CLIN includes the above items and is applicable to this procurement (Firm-Fixed Price): Quantity: 10 months: CLIN 0001: Access an On-line Publication Database Subscription Services: TOTAL COST TO THE GOVERNMENT (CLIN 0001). $_________. Each quotation in response to RFQ0040-11 is due on Friday, April 15, 2011, by 11:00 a.m (Washington DC local time). Submission must be sent to the following mailing address: U. S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Acquisition Services Division, 131 M Street, N.E., Room 4SW18A, Washington, DC 10507, ATTN: Caroline A. Fowler, Contracting Officer. A quotation submitted electronically, (via email) to caroline.fowler@eeoc.gov, with a cc: to Joseph Pishioneri at joseph.pishioneri@eeoc.gov will be accepted. Questions regarding this request for quotation should be submitted to Caroline A. Fowler, Contracting Officer, via e-mail at caroline.fowler@eeoc.gov, with a cc: to Joseph Pishioneri, Alternate Contracting Officer at: joseph.pisioneri@eeoc.gov. Telephone inquiries or responses are not acceptable. The deadline for submission of questions regarding RFQ0040-11 is Wednesday, April 13, 2011 at 10:00 a.m (Washington, DC local time). The Government will not reimburse interested parties for any cost associated with responding to this business opportunity. All responsible sources may submit a quotation which shall be considered by the EEOC. Award will be made to the quoter determined to be the best value to the Government, using the lowest price technically acceptable approach. The anticipated contract award date is in late April 2011. Evaluation factors for award: The EEOC will use the following factors to evaluate quotes. Quotations will be rated on a go or nogo basis using the following factors: Technical capability and past experience. Factor I: Technical Capability: Standards: Quotations will be evaluated on the quoters ability to provide the required services during the specified period (10 months). Factor II. Past Experience: Standards: The vendor must provide a minimum of three (3) references of past experience for same or similar projects awarded within the past three (3) years. Information for each reference

shall include the following: 1. Name and address of government agency or other non-government client; 2. Name, title and telephone number of Contracting Officer or point of contact; 3. Name, title and telephone number of clients program or project manger, if applicable; 4. Contract number, period of performance, and dollar value of contract, and 5. Description of services provided. Factor III: Price: Once the quote has been determined to be "technically acceptable", award will be based on lowest price. Notice: The Government intends to evaluate quotations and make award without discussions (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)), therefore, the quoter(s) initial quote should contain the vendor's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions, if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. Central Contractor Registration: In order to conduct business with the Government, quoters must register in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) System @ http://www.acquisition.gov/far/. The CCR registration must be valid before any subsequent award can be made. Provisions and Clauses: The provisions at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offer-Commercial Items and 52-212-2, Evaluation-Commercial Items apply to this solicitation. The quoter shall include a completed copy of the provisions at 52.2123, Offerors Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items with his/her quote. The following clauses shall apply to this solicitation: FAR 52.252-2, Clauses incorporated by Reference; Clause 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items and Clause 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statues or Executive OrderCommercial Items are incorporated by reference. Clause 52.222-3, Convict Labor; Clause 52.222-19, Child Labor Cooperation With Authorities and Remedies; Clause 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities, Clause 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity; Clause 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities; Clause 52.222.50, Combating Trafficking in Persons; Clause 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases; Clause 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer- Central Contractor Registration/ Clause 52.233-3, Protest After Award; and Clause 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim are incorporated by reference. To obtain the above provision/clauses in full text, please visit www.arnet.gov. Method of Payment: via the Electronic Funds Transfer.

