<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHHSP233-2009-RFQ-0003-0001.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHHSP233-2009-RFQ-0003-0001.doc%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>








TBD                    TBD














SEE BLOCK 9






































 Section SF 1449 - CONTINUATION SHEET

ADMINISTRATIVE SUMMARY

1.    The following attachments are incorporated into this document:

      a.    Attachment #1 -- List of Services (Section B)
      b.    Attachment #2 -- Past Performance Questionnaire
      c.    Attachment #3 – Past Performance Reference Matrix

2.    Submittal instructions for proposals are provided at: ADDENDUM to FAR 52.212-1 (INSTRUCTIONS).  Questions to solicitation must be
submitted by 2/17/2009, 4:00 PM, EST.

3.    Read through FAR 52.212-2, EVALUATION FACTORS.

4.    (a) The proposal must be prepared in three parts:  (1) Technical Proposal; (2) Business Proposal; and (3) Past Performance Information.
Each of these parts shall be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently  of the other.  The
technical proposal must not contain reference to cost/price; however, resource information, such as data concerning labor hours, categories,
materials, subcontracts, etc., must be contained in the technical proposal so that understanding of the statement of the work may be evaluated.
It must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation that includes, but is not limited to,
the requirements of the technical proposal instructions.

      (b) The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization.  Submit hard and soft copies of proposals along with
CD in Microsoft Word, PDF, and Excel formats.  Hardcopies shall include an original and two copies for mailing to the following address:

      HHS, Program Support Center
      Division of Acquisition Management
      Parklawn Building, Room 5-101
      5600 Fishers Lane
      Rockville, Maryland  20857
      Attn:  RFP:  HHSP233-2009-RFQ-0003
      c/o:     Contracting Officer, William N. Li


NOTE:  Because of the increased security at federal buildings, please allow extra time for your proposal to be delivered to the contracting
office as addressed above.  Failure to use the specified address could result in your proposal being delivered late.  Due to security concerns,
hand-carried proposals will NOT be accepted.  This prohibition includes courier services, except for those listed below.  The use of the U.S.
Postal Service, United Parcel Service, Federal Express, Airbourne Express and Emery Worldwide are acceptable. PLEASE NOTE, WHEN USING COURIER
SERVICES IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT YOU INITIATE YOUR MAILING REQUEST TWO (2) BUSINESS DAYS PRIOR TO THE SPECIFIED DUE DATE OF PROPOSALS TO ENSURE
THAT IT ARRIVES IN A TIMELY MANNER.  PACKAGES MAILED BY “24 HOUR NEXT DAY EXPRESS SERVICE” DO NOT ALWAYS ARRIVE AT THE EXACT LOCATION BY THE
TIME REQUIRED.  PROPOSALS MUST BE RECEIVED IN ROOM 5-101 BY THE SPECIFIED TIME TO NOT BE CONSIDERED LATE. Proposals that are received late in
the contracting office due to a delay caused by these security measures are considered late.  If you have any questions regarding the security
procedures for the Parklawn Building, you may contact the Guards Office on (301) 443-4144. If questions still remain, please contact the
Contracting Officer at William.Li@psc.hhs.gov.

The RFQ number should be clearly stated on the original and all copies of each proposal submitted.

5.    See attached Excel Spreadsheet to provide AND populate pricing information.

6.    Proposed Award Start Date:   February 2009



|Blocks 19 to 24 of SF 1449                                                                 |              |             |               |               |
|                 |                                                                          |              |             |               |               |
|Base Year        |Schedule of Services                                                      |Quantity      |Unit of Issue|Unit Price     |Amount         |
|                 |                                                                          |              |             |(USD)          |               |
|0001             |Project Director                                                          |300           |HR           |               |               |
|0002             |Project Manager                                                           |1000          |HR           |               |               |
|0003             |Junior research assistant                                                 |1000          |HR           |               |               |
|0004             |Administrative Assistant                                                  |500           |HR           |               |               |
|0005             |Travel - Incurred costs to be reimbursed IAW FTR rates                    |8             |Visit        |TBD            |TBD            |
|Sub total        |                                                                          |              |             |               |               |
|OPTION 1         |                                                                          |              |             |               |               |
|1001             |Project Director                                                          |300           |HR           |               |               |
|1002             |Project Manager                                                           |1000          |HR           |               |               |
|1003             |Junior research assistant                                                 |1000          |HR           |               |               |
|1004             |Administrative Assistant                                                  |500           |HR           |               |               |
|1005             |Travel - Incurred costs to be reimbursed IAW FTR rates                    |8             |Visit        |TBD            |TBD            |
|Total            |                                                                          |              |             |               |               |

SECTION A.       PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT

Purpose of Contract:

The purpose of this contract is to provide the Indian Health Service  (IHS),  Division  of  Environmental  Health  Services  (DEHS),  an  outside
monitoring contractor for 22 Tribal Injury Prevention Cooperative Agreements. The monitoring contractor will provide professional  oversight  and
technical expertise in the best practices in injury prevention program planning, development, implementation, evaluation, training, and  resource
development to ensure high quality performance in sustaining capacity of the Tribal Injury Prevention programs.   The  monitoring  services  will
require extensive involvement in communication, coordination and cooperation in technical oversight.

The objective of the IHS Injury Prevention Infrastructure Cooperative Agreement (CA) funding is to build and  sustain  Tribal  Injury  Prevention
program capacity.   The funding instrument is a Cooperative Agreement that anticipates substantial  involvement  (Injury  Prevention  Application
Kit, 2005 CFDA no. 93.284, page 3):

   o Between the agency and the recipient
   o During performance of the contemplated activity

This differs from a grant that has no involvement from the Federal agency.

Background:

The mission of the IHS, in partnership with American Indian and Alaskan Native people, is to raise their physical, mental, social  and  spiritual
health to the highest level; to ensure that comprehensive culturally acceptable personal and public health services are available and  accessible
to all American Indian and Alaskan Native people; and to uphold the Federal Government’s  obligation  to  promote  healthy  American  Indian  and
Alaskan Native people, communities and cultures and to honor and protect the inherent sovereign rights of Tribes.

In Sept 2005, Indian Health Service Injury Prevention Tribal Infrastructure Cooperative Agreement Program awarded 22 Tribal  groups  funding  for
five-years. This monitoring contract will provide oversight and technical assistance to the 22 Tribal  Injury  Prevention  Cooperative  Agreement
grantees.

Indian Health Service Project Officers – A local project officer (PO)  is  assigned  to  each  Tribal  Injury  Prevention  Cooperative  Agreement
grantee. The project officers (PO) are Indian Health Service Injury Prevention Specialists or Environmental  Health  Officers  working  with  the
local Indian Health Service area.  They are responsible for assisting grantees with scientific, technical and  programmatic  questions  from  the
grantee.

Consultation with IHS Staff:

The monitor contractor will consult with the project officer through conference calls, site visits, training and at  the  annual  meetings.   The
monitor contractor serves to provide technical assistance, advice, or guidance to the IHS project officer to ensure the  optimal  performance  of
the Tribal Cooperative Agreement Programs.

Consultation with IHS Injury Prevention Manager:

The contractor will schedule monthly conference calls with  IHS  Injury  Prevention  Manager  in  consultation  on  activities,  accomplishments,
challenges, and recommended solutions of the IHS IP Cooperative Agreement programs. Consultation will also include:

         o participation at annual IHS Injury Prevention Program meeting
         o report on monitoring activities, i.e., conference calls, site visits, training
         o Cooperative Agreement program needs, barriers, and successes
         o provide assistance in meeting planning and facilitation
         o national presentations and publications pertaining to the IP CA programs
         o newsletter articles

Place and Period of Performance:   The offeror shall provide services at its facility.  The government intends to award a single Firm Fixed
Price contract to one successful offeror consisting of a base period of twelve months plus one option year of twelve months.  Anticipated period
of performance is as follows:

Base year:             4/1/2009 – 3/31/2010
Option Year 1:         4/1/2010 – 3/31/2011

TASKS:

I  Cooperative Agreement grantee quarterly Newsletter:

Contractor will develop and distribute an electronic quarterly Tribal Injury Prevention Cooperative Agreement Program newsletter. The  newsletter
will be distributed to all program Cooperative Agreement grantees as well as other community-based injury prevention practitioners  working  with
American Indian/Alaskan Native groups.


II  Cooperative Agreement Program Conference Calls:

The contractor will conduct conference calls with Tribal  Injury  Prevention  Cooperative  Agreement  Coordinators  and  designated  IHS  Project
Officers and IHS Injury Prevention staff. The conference call will:


    o Include a method of assessing each grantee’s progress
    o development, progress, barriers and challenges in meeting grantee’s project objectives
    o identification of needs
    o establish a protocol to address assistance in needs of the grantee
    o provide technical assistance in program planning, development, implementation, training and evaluation

III  Ongoing Training in community-based Injury Prevention:

The contractor will use their existing training tools and resources to  assist  Cooperative  Agreement  Programs  in  completing  the  objectives
established by the grantee. Tools will include, but are not limited to worksheets designed to assist Cooperative Agreement  Program  grantees  in
identifying action steps, responsible parties, resources and timelines. The  worksheets  will  serve  as  the  contractor’s  mechanism  to  track
progress, barriers and identify training needs. The contractor will evaluate the worksheets quarterly and  annually.    The  contractor  will  be
available to respond to technical assistance requests as needed from all Cooperative Agreement Programs. Technical assistance may take  the  form
of referrals to recommended resources, research into injury prevention (promising, best and evidence-based practices) and resources,  mailing  of
select articles and excerpts and information in project newsletters. The contractor will also provide the IHS Injury Prevention Manager  feedback
on the Cooperative Agreement Program reports and provide advice to resolve barriers relating  to  the  Injury  Prevention  Cooperative  Agreement
Program.

IV  Injury Prevention Annual Cooperative Agreement Workshop:

The contractor will coordinate the planning and participate in a 2-day annual training workshop for  the  Tribal  Injury  Prevention  Cooperative
Agreement Program Coordinators and IHS project officers. The training course will be planned  in  partnership  with  the  IHS  Injury  Prevention
Program Manager.  The training course will be conducted by the third quarter of the contract  period.  The  contractor  is  not  responsible  for
travel and per diem expenses for the Cooperative Agreement grantees or IHS staff participating in the annual meeting.   The  annual  workshop  is
held by March or April of each year.

The contractor will assist IHS HQE with grantee meeting facilitation and planning. The workshop will include but not be limited to:

    o effective strategies in community-based injury prevention
    o strategies in capacity building and sustainability
    o resource development
    o network and outreach

The contractor will be responsible for recording notes during the meetings and producing a report of recommendations or follow up  action  items.
This report and an evaluative summary of participant’s evaluations will be emailed to the IHS Injury Prevention Program Manager  within  30  days
of the conclusion of the annual training workshop.


V  Monitoring Activities:

The contractor will  ensure  on-going  training  and  technical  assistance  for  the  IP  Cooperative  Agreement  Coordinators’  proficiency  in
accomplishing program objectives.

The contractor will encourage all the IP Cooperative Agreement Coordinators to document the success or impact of their programs  and  to  present
at national conferences to report successes and to showcase their work. The contractor will provide guidance for those grantees that have  injury
data and to apply for presentations at conferences and submit for publication, i.e., IHS Primary Care Provider Journal.

The contractor will compile an annual profile for each CA grantee.  The profile will include:
    o Program staff, contact information and any additional funding sources
    o Project Goals
    o Accomplishments and when accomplished
    o Activities, and
    o Services Available


VI  Site Visit to Injury Prevention Cooperative Agreement Grantee:

The contractor will make one site visit per year to each of the 22 Tribal Injury Prevention Cooperative Agreement Program sites to meet  face-to-
face with the Program Coordinator, IHS project office and other key staff or tribal officials.  The purpose of the site visit will involve:

    o reporting in accomplishments of program goals
    o internal and external collaboration
    o address any special conditions
    o new resources secured
    o barriers identified
    o identification of needs assistance and a method to address the needs
    o forecasting future needs for program sustainability

Contractor must abide by all regulations regarding use of tribal information, data and records.

Contractor will return all records to the Indian Health Service within 90 days of the end of contract period.

Contractor should encourage all grantees to document the success or impact of their programs. Grantees should be mentored to present  at  tribal,
state, regional or national conferences of their program results, i.e., presentations, posters. Contractor should  provide  technical  assistance
especially to the Part I Advanced with injury data and results for formal presentations (poster) and submit for publication,  i.e.,  IHS  Primary
Care Provider journal.

Contractor shall submit to the IHS IP Program Manager an annual summary of activities, accomplishments,  challenges,  and  recommended  solutions
within 90 days of the end of contract funding period.


Reports:


The contractor will submit monthly progress reports (two (2) copies: one electronic copy, and one hard copy) to the ACF Project Officer.  The
Contractor shall prepare the report on a calendar month basis and submit the reports by the 20th day of each month.  Each monthly progress
report shall address the following topics as a minimum:

    • Monthly project highlights
    • Narrative Summary of the month’s activities
    • Roadblocks and issues, along with recommendations for resolution
    • Year to date expenses, by personnel, personnel type, total hours, and cost
    • Planned activities and goals
    • Status meeting reports
    • When government furnished equipment (GFE) is furnished and or software items are provided to the contractor, the contractor must document
      in the monthly report the following information:
         o GFE/software (description and serial number)
         o Government person providing GFE or software
         o Date contractor gained possession of item
         o Date contractor returned item to government
         o Contractor personnel receiving GFE or software

When applicable, the following travel information must be documented in the monthly report:

    • Name of contractor on travel
    • Destination
    • Dates of travel
    • Cost
    • Approval date
    • Program manager approval of travel

Invoice Submission:

      1.    The Contractor shall submit invoices in an original and three (3) copies to the Project Officer.  After review and approval the
           Project Officer shall:

           a.    Annotate each copy of the invoice “Payment is authorized in the amount of $ [enter amount] and sign each copy.


           b.    Forward two (2) copies of the invoice to
                 PSC/Financial Management Service
                 Division of Financial Operations
                 Parklawn Building, Room 16A-12
                 5600 Fishers Lane
                 Rockville, Maryland  20857
                 Telephone Number:  (301) 443-3020


           c.    Forward one (1) copy of the invoice to the
                 Contracting Officer, Parklawn Building, Room 5-101
                 Rockville, MD 20847


           d.    Maintain one (1) copy.

      2.    The Contractor agrees to include the following information on its voucher, applicable:

           a.    Contractor’s name and address;
           b.    Delivery Order Number;
           c.    Description of services, including the hours for each service and the cost;
           d.    Time reports and any other substantiating documentation such as travel; vouchers
           e.    Identification of any subcontractor labor;
           f.    Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).


Authorities of Government Personnel:

Notwithstanding the Contractor’s responsibility for total management during the performance of this delivery order, the administration of the
contract will require maximum coordination between the Government and the Contractor.  The following individuals will be the Government’s points
of contact during the performance of this delivery order:

      1.    Contracting Officer

      All contract administration shall be performed by Contract Administrator, William N. Li.  All communications pertaining to contractual
      and/or administrative matters under the delivery order should be addressed to the Contract Specialist


      Name:  William N. Li
      Division of Acquisition Management, Parklawn Building, Room 5-101
      5600 Fishers Lane,
      Rockville, Maryland  20857
      (301) 443-2475


        2. Project Officer


      The Project Officer will be Captain Susan McCracken, PHS


      Attn:  Captain Susan McCracken
      Indian Health Services
      12300 Twinbrook Pkwy, Suite 610
      Rockville, Maryland  20852
      (301) 443-9854 Phone
      Email:  Susan.McCracken@ihs.gov


(a) Performance of work under this contract must be subject to the technical direction of the Project Officer identified above, or a
representative designated in writing. The term “technical direction” includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or
redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined
in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily.

(b) Technical direction must be within the scope of the specification(s)/work statement.

The Project Officer does not have authority to issue technical direction that:

      (1) constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the specification(s)/statement of work;
      (2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled “Changes”;
      (3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance;
      (4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract;
      (5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or
      (6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees.

(c) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The Project Officer shall confirm oral direction in writing within five work days, with a
copy to the Contracting Officer.

 (d) The contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the Project Officer.  If, in the
opinion of the contractor, any direction of the Project Officer, or his/her designee, falls within the limitations in (c), above, the contractor
shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day.

(e) Failure of the contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject
to the terms of the clause entitled “Disputes.”


CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION REPORT:

The Contractor’s performance shall be evaluated annually.  This evaluation shall become a part of the contract file and shall be used as past
performance information in evaluating the Contractor’s and any significant subcontractors’ or affiliates’ past performance on future contracts. 
The Contractor shall be given a minimum of 30 days to submit comments, rebutting statements, or additional information.  A sample of the
“Contractor Performance Report” form that may be used to conduct these evaluations is located at http://cps.od.nih.gov. Contractors are required
to register with the NIH Contractor Performance System at https://cpscontractor.nih.gov/.


SECTION  508:

Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d) as amended by P.L. 105-220 under Title IV (Rehabilitation Act
Amendments of 1998) all Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) developed, procured, maintained and/or used under this contract shall be in
compliance with the “Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards” set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board (also referred to as the Access Board”) in 36 CFR Part 1194.  The complete text of Section 508 Final Standards can be accessed
at http://www.acess-board.gov/news/508-final.htm. The standards applicable to this requirement are identified in the Statement of Work.
SECTION B.   INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS
FAR 52.212 -1    Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (Jun 2008)
(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard
for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which
submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in
this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum,
offers must show --
           (1) The solicitation number;
           (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers;
           (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror;
           (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the
           solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary;
           (5) Terms of any express warranty;
           (6) Price and any discount terms;
           (7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address;
           (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and
           certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically);
           (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments;
           (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or
           similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant
           information); and
           (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions,
           and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms
           and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.
(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for
receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.
(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of
offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the
sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing.
(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for
satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.
(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers.
           (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government
           office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the
           time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due.
           (2)
                 (i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the
                 solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received
                 before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition;
                 and—
                       (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the
                       initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date
                       specified for receipt of offers; or
                       (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt
                       of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or
                       (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received.
                 (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will
                 be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.
           (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that
           installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or
           statements of Government personnel.
           (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government
           office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude
           amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be
           deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government
           processes resume.
           (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in
           response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via
           facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the
           solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if,
           before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs
           a receipt for the offer.
(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions
with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However,
the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may
reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor
irregularities in offers received.
(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific
limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government
reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror
specifies otherwise in the offer.
(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.
           (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of
           specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a
           request to--
                       GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
                       Suite 8100
                       470 L’Enfant Plaza, SW
                       Washington, DC 20407
                       Telephone (202) 619-8925)
                       Facsimile (202 619-8978).
                 (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this
                 solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be
                 obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies
                 will be issued for a fee.
           (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites--
                 (i) ASSIST ( http://assist.daps.dla.mil ).
                 (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch/ )
                 (iii) ASSISTdocs.com ( http://assistdocs.com ).
           (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by—
                 (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard ( http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard );
                 (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or
                 (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4 Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697/2197,
                 Facsimile (215) 697-1462.
           (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or
           maintenance.
(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation
requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its
name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the
offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to
establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same
concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United
States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside
the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a
Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.
(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges
the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment
of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the
Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain
information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-
5757.
(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if
applicable:
           (1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer.
           (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and debriefed offeror and past performance information
           on the debriefed offeror.
           (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.
           (4) A summary of rationale for award;
           (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror.
           (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in
           the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.
                                                                (End of Provision)

                                                             ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-1


FAR 52.212-1 is hereby amended to reflect the changes shown below as to the specific paragraph revised.

Para (b) Submission of Offers.  The following amends this paragraph with respect to the information and documents required for submission in
response to this solicitation and requirements for oral presentation of those proposals determined to be in the competitive range.

(1)   ELECTRONIC OFFERS.  Offerors may submit electronic offers in Microsoft Word and Excel in response to this solicitation.  The offer must
arrive by the time specified in the solicitation to the following email addresses:

           William.Li@psc.hhs.gov or pscacquisitions@psc.hhs.gov

(2)         Offerors must call William Li at 301-443-2475 to verify receipt of the offer.  The Government will not be responsible for any
failure of transmission or receipt of the offer, or any failure of the offeror to verify receipt of the emailed offer.

(3)         The Government intends to award a single Firm Fixed Price Contract to the successful offeror.  Accordingly, offerors are instructed
to insure that their offered rates are the most favorable rates for the government. Offerors must quote a firm-fixed price for each Contract
Line Item and populate prices onto attached Excel Spreadsheet.

(4)   Any questions with respect to the solicitation shall be submitted by January 29, 2009.  Responses will be posted on Fedbizops for all
interested vendors.

(5)   Technical Capability submissions shall not exceed 50 pages, no page limits for Past Performance and Price Proposal.

(6)   PROCESS FOR AWARD.  Award will be made on a best value basis.  Discussions may be conducted whenever the Contracting Officer deems it
appropriate.  The contract will be awarded strictly in accordance with the criteria and process established in FAR 12.

(7)   SUBMISSION OF OFFERS.  The solicitation should be completed, signed and received at this office not later than the date/time specified in
Block 8 of the solicitation (Standard Form [SF] 1449).  Please note that your offer must include all of the following information.  Submit
proposal in three separate parts as follows:

PART I:  FACTOR 1 (TECHNICAL)

The contractor shall provide a write-up to address the technical requirements outlined in the subfactors.  The information provided by the
offeror will be a significant factor in the Government’s determination of technical acceptability.  The following subfactors will be evaluated:



Subfactor 1- Contractor has extensive experience/past performance working with Indian Health Service (IHS) as a monitoring evaluator and be
willing to work with program staff in a flexible and cooperative manner.             ( 40 Points )

    • Provide documentation of experiences with past work performances with Indian Health Service in similar projects or programs


      ▪ Ability to travel for site visits and on-site training
      ▪ Ability to plan, facilitate and evaluate a 2-day training workshop in partnership with IHS staff
      ▪ Ability to plan, host and report on conference calls with grantees
      ▪ Ability to develop a plan to address grantees that are “struggling” and a description of how these issues shall be resolved

      ▪ Ability to work with Indian Health Service staff


    • Provide documentation that demonstrates experience and knowledge in American Indian’s and Alaskan Native’s Tribal governments and community


    • Ability to work with American Indian/Alaska Native populations


Subfactor 2 - Contractor is knowledgeable of public health principles applicable to the science and evidenced-based practice of injury control
and prevention theories, program evaluation and interventions.                            ( 25 Points )

     • Provide documentation that demonstrates understanding of the science and evidenced-based practice of injury control and prevention
     • Provide documentation of the relevant academic background, training and experience in Injury Prevention and Control; experience and
       qualifications of staff, consultants and key personnel, i.e., resumes, etc


Subfactor 3 - Contractor is knowledgeable and experienced in injury prevention program planning, implementation, training and evaluation.
                                                   ( 20 Points )


     • Provide documentation that demonstrates knowledge, skill and ability to assess, plan, implement and evaluation community injury
       prevention programs and training


Subfactor 4 - Skill in written and oral communications, ability to facilitate discussion, present findings and recommendations.

                                                                    ( 15 Points )
     • Ability to write reports
     • Ability to produce newsletter


PART II: FACTOR 2 (PAST PERFORMANCE)

Offeror is required to fill-out the past performance questionnaire.   Offerors should clearly identify whether references are from federal,
state and local government and private contracts performed within the past three years, which are similar in scope and complexity to the effort
described in this solicitation.  If none, offeror should so state and provide information on references.

(i)   Information provided by the contractor shall state:

*     the type of service provided,
*     name, telephone and fax numbers of a point of contact in the administering contracting office, -award/contract number, the term of the
contract, number, the total amount, and number and types of personnel furnished.

(ii)  The Government may reject a proposal if it is found that any information that has a negative impact on the offeror's past performance
record has been deleted, misrepresented, or withheld.

      (1)   PROCESS FOR AWARD.  Discussions may be conducted whenever the Contracting Officer deems it appropriate.  This contract will be
awarded strictly in accordance with the criteria and process established in 10 USC Section 1091(c)(1)(B) and (c), and the implementing
provisions of DFAR 237.104(b)(ii).

        2) BASIS FOR AWARD.  Award will be made on a best value basis, subject to availability of funds, and offeror responsibility, to that
           individual whose knowledge, capabilities, talent and experience appear to offer, in the reasonable judgment of the Contracting
           Officer, the best opportunity for successful performance, in conjunction with a fair and reasonable price.



PART III: FACTOR 3 (PRICE)

If the prices are the same for each contract period, provide one schedule and state that the schedule applies to all contract periods. The
information provided in this schedule will be used to assist in the price analysis described in EVALUATION OF THE PROPOSED PRICES, in ADDENDUM
TO FAR 52.212-2, EVALUATION – COMMERCIAL ITEMS.

(i)   Price Schedule.  DO NOT round figures in the pricing schedule.
(ii)  Complete and sign SF 1449, page 1, Blocks 17a & b, 30a, b & c.
(iii) Signed amendments (if any).
(iv)  Representations and Certifications found at FAR 52.212-3 MUST be completed.  [Check blocks and fill in blanks.]

Para (g) Contract award.    This is amended to state that the Government may conduct discussions prior to contract award.

Para (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) / CAGE Code.   The offeror shall obtain these said Codes and submit them to Contracting Center.
Registration in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR), if you are a US firm.  Award cannot and shall not be made to an offeror without these
codes

Para (l) Bid Preparation Costs.  This solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the submission of an offer, in
making any necessary studies for the preparation thereof, or for any visit(s) the Contracting Officer may request for the purpose of
clarification of the offer.

                                           (END OF ADDENDUM to FAR 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS)




FAR 52.212-2     EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)


Para (a) The Government will award a single Firm Fixed Contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer
conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.  The following are the
evaluation criteria for each factor and any sub-factors under that factor.

    • Factor 1:  Technical
    • Factor 2:  Past Performance
    • Factor 3:  Price

      1.    Technical and past performance, when combined is more important than price.


      2.    Technical Factor is more important than Past Performance.

A.  The Government reserves the right to award to other than the low offeror for better technical capability and/or better performance records.


B.  The total evaluated price must be reasonable, and any additional expense must be justified by a corresponding value for technical merit, or
an expectation of greater quality of performance.

C.  The Contracting Officer will exercise the trade-off analysis among the factors, leading to the “best value” decision.

D.  Competitive Range Determination.  Contractors may not qualify if any of the following are not met:

      1.    Proposal does not reasonably address the requirements in the request for quotation (RFQ).

     2. Proposal includes major deficiencies or omissions which discussions could not be expected to cure without a major revision or a new
        proposal.

     3. Proposal is so technically inferior or so out of line in price as compared to other proposals as to preclude it from having a reasonable
        chance for award.

      4.    An unrealistically low price, may indicate lack of sound management judgment and lack of understanding of the requirement for the
geographic area of service, or unbalanced pricing of line items, as proposed initially or subsequently, may be grounds for eliminating a
proposal from the competitive range, either on the basis that the offeror does not understand the required services or has made an imprudent
offer.

      5.   The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions, if necessary.


      6.    Offerors determined not to be in the competitive range will be notified immediately.

      7.    Final Proposal Revisions.  It is not the intent of the Government to request final proposal revisions (FPR) after the conclusion of
the evaluations and discussions.   However, Government does reserve the right to request other proposal revisions prior to the final one, if
necessary.

      8.    If the contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the
number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to
the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.

     9. Evaluation Criteria.


PART I:  TECHNICAL EVALUATION – The Technical Factor consist of 4 sub factors and shall be scored as follows:


Subfactor 1- Contractor has extensive experience/past performance working with Indian Health Service (IHS) as a monitoring evaluator and be
willing to work with program staff in a flexible and cooperative manner.             ( 40 Points )

    • Provide documentation of experiences with past work performances with Indian Health Service in similar projects or programs


               ▪ Ability to travel for site visits and on-site training
               ▪ Ability to plan, facilitate and evaluate a 2-day training workshop in partnership with IHS staff
               ▪ Ability to plan, host and report on conference calls with grantees
               ▪ Ability to develop a plan to address grantees that are “struggling” and a description of how these issues shall be resolved


               ▪ Ability to work with Indian Health Service staff


    • Provide documentation that demonstrates experience and knowledge in American Indian’s and Alaskan Native’s Tribal governments and community
    •
               ▪ Ability to work with American Indian/Alaska Native populations


Subfactor 2 - Contractor is knowledgeable of public health principles applicable to the science and evidenced-based practice of injury control
and prevention theories, program evaluation and interventions.                            ( 25 Points )

     • Provide documentation that demonstrates understanding of the science and evidenced-based practice of injury control and prevention
     • Provide documentation of the relevant academic background, training and experience in Injury Prevention and Control; experience and
       qualifications of staff, consultants and key personnel, i.e., resumes, etc


Subfactor 3 - Contractor is knowledgeable and experienced in injury prevention program planning, implementation, training and evaluation.
                                                   ( 20 Points )



     • Provide documentation that demonstrates knowledge, skill and ability to assess, plan, implement and evaluation community injury
       prevention programs and training


Subfactor 4 - Skill in written and oral communications, ability to facilitate discussion, present findings and recommendations.

                                                                    ( 15 Points )
         • Ability to write reports
         • Ability to produce newsletter


PART II:  PAST PERFORMANCE - The Offeror’s demonstrated past performance will be evaluated under existing and prior contracts for similar
services. The Government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the complexity of the procurement under
consideration. Sources other than those identified by the Offeror’s quotation may also be contacted/accessed by the Government. The Government
may use the additional information received/retrieved in its evaluation of the Offeror’s past performance.

Past Performance will be evaluated for only those Offerors determined to be within the competitive range. Offerors will receive a maximum of ten
points based on the following criteria as determined by the Government upon evaluation of the Offeror’s Performance Reports, past performance
questionnaires, and any other available information:

Performance Risk Definitions.     The following definitions will be used in the evaluation of the degree the offeror will satisfactorily perform
the required services based on his past and current performance records.

        EXCEPTIONAL (++):  The Contractor has demonstrated an excellent level of performance which (++ Plus-Plus) exceeds the performance level
                       described as “Excellent”.  It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare instances when Contractor
                       performance clearly demonstrates a level of quality/innovation/performance well beyond the contract requirements
                       warranting the assignment of the highest possible rating.


              EXCELLENT:          Contractor demonstrates initiative to enhance/exceed contractual requirements/objectives and overall
                       contractor/government relationship is exceptional.


              GOOD:               There are no quality of service problems and/or nonconformances do not impact achievement of contract
                       requirements.


              ACCEPTABLE:   Nonconformances are minor and have little impact in achievement of contract requirements, requires minor
                       intervention by Government personnel to resolve issues.


              MARGINAL:           Nonconformances are impacting achievement of contract requirements, requires substantial intervention by
                       Government personnel to resolve issues.


              UNACCEPTABLE: Nonconformances are compromising the achievement of contract requirements, despite substantive intervention by
                       Government personnel.


PART III.  PRICE - Price will be evaluated separately from past performance and technical factor and will be evaluated for fairness and
reasonability in terms of:

A.  Consistency with the technical approach:  That the prices are consistent with fair market prices--reasonable and realistic pricing.   That
the proposed prices are calculated based on reasonable and realistic assumptions.  For very low rates (inflation rate, profit, G&A, overhead,
management costs substantially lower than published industry standards or company experience), offeror has satisfactorily explained why such
rates will not affect the quality of services proposed to be provided under this contract.

B.  Offerors are cautioned that an unrealistically low price, or unbalanced pricing of line items, as proposed initially or subsequently, may be
a ground for eliminating a proposal, either on the basis that the offeror does not understand the required services, or he has made an imprudent
offer.


C. Careful, full, and impartial consideration will be given to all offers received in response to this solicitation.  Offers will be evaluated
to determine compliance with all requirements of the solicitation, including any attachments and exhibits.  The evaluation criteria will be
applied to all offers in the same manner.  Each proposal will be evaluated strictly in accordance with its content and the Government will not
assume that performance will include areas not specified in the offeror's proposal.


D.  Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic
requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of
options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).


E.  A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance
specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time,
the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of
withdrawal is received before award.


                                                        (END OF ADDENDUM to FAR 52.212-2)

52.212-3  OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS-- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2008)

     An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates
 electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA
                              website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision.
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision--
           “Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for
           the NAICS code designated.
           “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—
                 (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker
                 does not offer himself voluntarily; or
                 (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process
                 or penalties.
           “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—
                 (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;
                 (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;
                 (3) FSG 88, Live Animals;
                 (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;
                 (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;
                 (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;
                 (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;
                 (8) FSC 9610, Ores;
                 (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and
                 (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
           “Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw
           materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place
           of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.
           “Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction
           activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability
           and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person
           conducting the business can demonstrate—
                 (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;
                 (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the
                 Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;
                 (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
                 (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;
                 (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
                 (6) Have been voluntarily suspended.
           “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
                 (1) Means a small business concern—
                       (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly
                       owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
                       (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in
                       the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such
                       veteran.
                 (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as
                 defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).
           “Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the
           field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR
           Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.
           “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
                 (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any
                 publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
                 (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
           “Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any
           publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business
           operations are controlled by one or more women.
           “Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern --
           (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the
           stock of which is owned by one or more women; and
           (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
(b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not
automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website.
           (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at
           http://orca.bpn.gov .After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the
           representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and
           Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable
           to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the
           date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to
           identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (m) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this
           solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are
           current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation
           only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]
(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying
areas. Check all that apply.
           (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a small business concern.
           (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph
           (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
           (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small
           business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a service-
           disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
           (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph
           (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it * is, * is not, a small disadvantaged
           business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
           (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph
           (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it * is, * is not a women-owned small business concern.
           Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
           (6) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern
           and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.]. The offeror represents that it *
           is, a women-owned business concern.
           (7) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the
           labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors)
           amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:
                 ___________________________________________
           (8) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under
           the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business
           concern under the size standards for this solicitation.]
                 (i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the
                 designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not an emerging small
                 business.
                 (ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or
                 designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows:
                       (A) Offeror’s number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the
                       solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or
                       (B) Offeror’s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues
                       column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts).
                            (Check one of the following):
|Number of Employees                                             |Average Annual Gross Revenues                                   |
|50 or fewer                                                     |$1 million or less                                              |
|51-100                                                          |$1,000,001-$2 million                                           |
|101-250                                                         |$2,000,001-$3.5 million                                         |
|251-500                                                         |$3,500,001-$5 million                                           |
|501-750                                                         |$5,000,001-$10 million                                          |
|751-1,000                                                       |$10,000,001-$17 million                                         |
|Over 1,000                                                      |Over $17 million                                                |


           (9) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small
           Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and
           Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.]
                 (i) General. The offeror represents that either—
                       (A) It * is, * is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and
                       identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database
                       maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net), and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and
                       control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming
                       disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after
                       taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or
                       (B) It *has, * has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be
                       certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that
                       application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its
                       application was submitted.
                 (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as
                 part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the
                 representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is
                 participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is
                 participating in the joint venture: ________________.]
           (10) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1)
           of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that--
                 (i) It * is, * is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified
                 HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and
                 control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business
                 Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and
                 (ii) It * is, * not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph
                 (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
                 venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in
                 the joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate
                 signed copy of the HUBZone representation.
(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 --
           (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that --
                 (i) It * has, * has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this
                 solicitation; and
                 (ii) It * has, * has not, filed all required compliance reports.
           (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that --
                 (i) It * has developed and has on file, * has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action
                 programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or
                 (ii) It * has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and
                 regulations of the Secretary of Labor.
(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant
contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to
this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the
name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act – Supplies, is
included in this solicitation.)
           (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product
           and that the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United
           States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as
           domestic end products. The terms “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are
           defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”
           (2) Foreign End Products:
|LINE ITEM NO.                                                   |COUNTRY OF ORIGIN                                               |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |


           [List as necessary]
           (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
(g)
           (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy
           American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)
                 (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision,
                 is a domestic end product and that the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or
                 manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian or Moroccan end product,” “component,” “domestic end product,”
                 “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end
                 product,” and ‘United States’ are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--
                 Israeli Trade Act.”
                 (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian or
                 Moroccan end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free
                 Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
                 Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian or Moroccan End Products) or Israeli End Products:
|LINE ITEM NO.                                                   |COUNTRY OF ORIGIN                                               |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |


                 [List as necessary]
                 (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or
                 this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade
                 Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not
                 qualify as domestic end products.
                 Other Foreign End Products:
|LINE ITEM NO.                                                   |COUNTRY OF ORIGIN                                               |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                |


                 [List as necessary]
                 (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
           (2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3
           is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
                 (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this
                 solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
                 Canadian End Products:
                                                                  Line Item No.:
                                                   ___________________________________________
                                                               [List as necessary]
           (3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3
           is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
                 (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the
                 clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':
                 Canadian or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.:                                                    |Country of Origin:                                                |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |


                       [List as necessary]
           (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)
                 (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made
                 or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”
                 (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.
                 Other End Products
|Line Item No.:                                                    |Country of Origin:                                                |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |


                       [List as necessary]
                 (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered
                 by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the
                 restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end
                 products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such
                 products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.
(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-
-
           (1) * Are, * are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any
           Federal agency;
           (2) * Have, * have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against
           them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal,
           state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of
           offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax
           evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and
           (3) * Are, * are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of
           any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and
           (4) * Have, *have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount
           that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
                 (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
                       (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is
                       not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to
                       the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
                       (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax
                       liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action
                       is precluded.
                 (ii) Examples.
                       (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek
                       Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability.
                       Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all
                       judicial appear rights.
                       (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been
                       issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting
                       the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of
                       the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior
                       opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the
                       taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial
                       appeal rights.
                       (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely
                       payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not
                       currently required to make full payment.
                       (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is
                       stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in
paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]
           (1) Listed End Product
|Listed End Product:                                               |Listed Countries of Origin:                                       |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |
|                                                                  |                                                                  |


           (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this
           provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]
                 [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or
                 manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.
                 [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or
                 manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort
                 to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished
                 under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.
(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly—
           (1) [ ] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States
           exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or
           (2) [ ] Outside the United States.
(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.)
[The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]
           (1) [ ] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [ ] does [ ] does
           not certify that—
                 (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are
                 sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations;
                 (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
                 4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and
                 (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the
                 same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.
           (2) [ ] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [ ] does [ ] does not certify that—
                 (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the
                 offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of
                 normal business operations;
                 (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR
                 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii));
                 (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time
                 (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available
                 hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
                 (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same
                 as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.
           (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—
                 (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a
                 Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as
                 possible; and
                 (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph
                 (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.
(l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)
           (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt
           collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and
           implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
           (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship
           with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in
           FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.]
           (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
                 * TIN:_____________________.

                 * TIN has been applied for.

                 * TIN is not required because:
           * Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with
           the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in
           the United States;
           * Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
           * Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government;
           (4) Type of organization.
           * Sole proprietorship;
           * Partnership;
           * Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
           * Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
           * Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
           * Foreign government;
           * International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
           * Other ____________________.
           (5) Common parent.
           * Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent:
           * Name and TIN of common parent:
                 Name ____________________________________
                 TIN ______________________________________
(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that it does not conduct any restricted business
operations in Sudan.
                                                                (End of Provision)
FAR 52.212-4      Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (OCT 2008)
(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The
Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require
repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If
repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the government may seek an equitable price reduction or
adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights --
           (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and
           (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.
(b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a
bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31
U.S.C.3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign
its rights to receive payment under this contract.
(c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.
(d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this
contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be
a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor
shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.
(e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.
(f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control
of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign
or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable
delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly
give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.
(g) Invoice.
           (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated
           in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include --
                 (i) Name and address of the Contractor;
                 (ii) Invoice date and number;
                 (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;
                 (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;
                 (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government
                 bill of lading;
                 (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;
                 (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;
                 (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and
                 (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in
                 this contract.
                 (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.
                       (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
                       (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the
                       Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision,
                       contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34,
                       Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures.
                       (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.
           (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
           prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.
(h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs,
for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or
copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.
(i) Payment.
           (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations
           set forth in this contract.
           (2) Prompt Payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment
           regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315.
           (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.
           (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the
           purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment
           check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.
           (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has
           otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall—
                 (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment
                 including the—
                       (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of
                       overpayment);
                       (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable;
                       (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and
                       (D) Contractor point of contact.
                 (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.
           (6) Interest.
                 (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the
                 date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the
                 Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is
                 applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate
                 applicable for each six-month period at fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid.
                 (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract.
                 (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if—
                       (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within
                       30 days;
                       (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified
                       in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment
                       agreement; or
                       (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-
                       2).
                 (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall
                 identify the same due date as the original demand for payment.
                 (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates:
                       (A) The date fixed under this contract.
                       (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default
                       termination.
                 (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending
                 on—
                       (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor;
                       (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld
                       as a credit against the contract debt; or
                       (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the
                       Contractor.
                 (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal
                 Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.
(j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall
remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:
           (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or
           (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.
(k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.
(l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole
convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all
of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the
contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor
shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give
the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which
reasonably could have been avoided.
(m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the
Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with
adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any
amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided
by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination
for convenience.
(n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon
acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.
(o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose
described in this contract.
(p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for
consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.
(q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations
applicable to its performance under this contract.
(r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use
of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq.,
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to
whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity.
(s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
           (1) The schedule of supplies/services.
           (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts
           paragraphs of this clause.
           (3) The clause at 52.212-5.
           (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software.
           (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation.
           (6) Other paragraphs of this clause.
           (7) The Standard Form 1449.
           (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments.
           The specification.
(t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR).
           (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of
           any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the
           Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the
           Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its
           information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the
           terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document.
           (2)
                 (i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the
                 contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements
                 regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting
                 Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to:
                       (A) Change the name in the CCR database;
                       (B) Comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12 of the FAR;
                       (C) Agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must
                       provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name.
                 (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the
                 agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name
                 agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be
                 considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds
                 transfer (EFT) clause of this contract.
           The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect
           an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see FAR Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately
           registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by
           EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the
           “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract.
           Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at
           http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423, or 269-961-5757.
                                                                 (End of Clause)

                                                             ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-4

In addition to those clauses in FAR 52.212-4, the following are hereby added:

52.252-2    CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE      (FEB 1998)

52.202-1         Definitions (JULY 2004) (IAW 2.201)
52.203-6         Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sep 2006) (IAW 3.503-2)
52.203-7         Anti-Kickback Procedures (Jul 1995) (IAW 3.502.3)
52.204-3         Taxpayer Identification (Oct 1998) (IAW 4.905)
52.204-6         Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number (Apr 2008) (IAW 4.607(a))
52.204-7         Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008) (IAW 4.1104)
52.217-5         Evaluation of Options (JUL 1990)
52.217-8         Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999)
52.217-9         Option to Extend The Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)
52.224-1         PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)
52.224-2         PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)
52.228-7         Insurance-Liability To Third Persons (Mar 1996)
52.232-1         Payments (Apr. 1984) (IAW 32.111(a)(1))
52.232-8         Discounts for Prompt Payment (Feb 2002) (IAW 32.111(b)(1))
52.233-2         Service of Protest (Sep 2006) (IAW 33.106)
52.233-3         Protest after Award (Aug. 1996) (IAW 33.106 (b))
52.233-4         Applicable Law For Breach Of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (IAW 33.215(b))
52.243-1         Changes -- Fixed Price (Aug 1987) (IAW 43.205(a)(1))
52.244-6         Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Mar 2007) (IAW 44.403)
52.246-4         Inspection of Services -- Fixed-Price (Aug. 1996) (IAW  46.302)
52.249-2    Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (May 2004) (IAW 49.502(b)(1)(i))
52.249-8    Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Apr 1984) (IAW 49.504)


Department of Health and Human Services Acquisition Regulation (HHSAR) (48 CFR Chapter 3) Contract Clauses


NUMBER      TITLE AND DATE
352.224-70  Confidentiality of Information (January 2006)
352.228-7   Insurance- Liability to Third Persons (Dec. 1991)
352.232-9   Withholding of Contract Payments (January    2006)
352.249-14  Excusable Delays (January 2006)
352.270-7   Paperwork Reduction Act (January 2006)


                                                         END OF ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-4


52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items (DEC 2008)
(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by
reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
           (1) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
           (2) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).
(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
                                                [Contracting Officer shall check as appropriate.]
                 ___ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sep 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 253g
                 and 10 U.S.C. 2402).
                 ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C.
                 251 note)).
                 ___ (3) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside (Jan 1999)(15 U.S.C. 657a).
                 ___ (4) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jul 2005) (if the offeror elects to
                 waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a).
                 ___ (5) [Reserved]
                 ___ (6) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
                 ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
                 ___ (7) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003)(15 U.S.C. 644).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
                 ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
                 ___ (8) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
                 ___ (9) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Apr 2008)(15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4).)
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
                 ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
                 ___ (10) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996)(15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
                 ___ (11) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999)(15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
                 ___ (12) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008)(10 U.S.C.
                 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
                 ___ (13) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Apr 2008)(Pub. L. 103-
                 355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
                 ___ (14) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000)(Pub. L. 103-355,
                 section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
                 ___ (15) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
                 ___ (16) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (June 2007) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
                 _X__ (17) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003)(E.O. 11755).
                 X___ (18) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Feb 2008) (E.O. 13126).
                 X___ (19) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
                 _X__ (20) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)(E.O. 11246).
                 ___ (21) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans
                 (Sep 2006)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
                 ___ (22) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998)(29 U.S.C. 793).
                 ___ (23) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans
                 (Sep 2006)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
                 ___ (24) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee Rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
                 ___ (25) (i) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Aug 2007) (Applies to all contracts).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50.
                 ___ (26) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008)(42 U.S.C.
                 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)).
                 ___ (27) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
                 ___ (28) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O.
                 13423).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
                 ___ (29) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (June 2003)(41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
                 ___ (30) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act –Free Trade Agreements – Israeli Trade Act (Aug 2007) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301
                 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, and 109-169).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
                 ___ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
                 ___ (31) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Nov 2007) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
                 ___ (32) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by
                 the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
                 ___ (33) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
                 ___ (34) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
                 ___ (35) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
                 ___ (36) 52.232.30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995)(41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
                 _X__ (37) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003)(31 U.S.C. 3332).
                 ___ (38) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999)(31 U.S.C. 3332).
                 ___ (39) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 1999)(31 U.S.C. 3332).
                 ___ (40) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996)(5 U.S.C. 552a).
                 ___ (41) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006)(46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10
                 U.S.C. 2631).
                 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
           ________________________________________________
(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
                                                   [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
                 ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007)(41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                 ___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989)(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                 _X__ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts)
                 (Nov 2006)(29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                 ___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Feb 2002)(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C.
                 351, et seq.).
                 ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair
                 of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                 ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Nov
                 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
                 ___ (7) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008)(31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
                 ________________________________________________
(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records -- Negotiation.
           (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to
           and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
           (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for
           examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR
           Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially
           terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination
           settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or
           relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
           (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type
           and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain
           in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
(e)
           (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not
           required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xi) of this paragraph in a subcontract for
           commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause--
                 (i) 52.203-13, Contractor ode of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2008) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251
                 note)).
                 (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2004)(15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer
                 further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $550,000
                 ($1,000,000 for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that
                 offer subcontracting opportunities.
                 (iii) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)(E.O. 11246).
                 (iv) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep
                 2006)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
                 (v) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (June 1998)(29 U.S.C. 793).
                 (vi) 52.222-39, Notification of Employee rights Concerning Payment of Union Dues or Fees (Dec 2004) (E.O. 13201).
                 (vii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), flow down required for all subcontracts subject to the Service
                 Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)
                 (viii) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Aug 2007) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). Flow down required in accordance with
                 paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-50.
                 (ix) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of
                 Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)
                 (x) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Nov 2007)
                 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.)
                 (xi) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C.
                 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
           (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses
           necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.
                                                                 (End of Clause)



SECTION C.    ATTACHMENTS

a.    Attachment #1 -- List of Services (Section B)
b.    Attachment #2 -- Past Performance Questionnaire
c.    Attachment #3 -- Past Performance Reference Matrix

-----------------------
PAGE 1 OF

1. REQUISITION NO.

2. CONTRACT NO.

3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE

4. ORDER NO.

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

a. NAME

b. TELEPHONE NO.  (No Collect Calls)

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL

TIME

9. ISSUED BY

CODE

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

UNRESTRICTED OR

SET ASIDE:                % FOR:

SMALL BUSINESS

HUBZONE SMALL

BUSINESS

SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-

OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

EMERGING SMALL

BUSINESS

8(A)

NAICS:

SIZE STANDARD:  $6.5m

11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINA-

TION UNLESS BLOCK IS

MARKED

SEE SCHEDULE

12. DISCOUNT TERMS

 13a.  THIS CONTRACT IS A

RATED ORDER UNDER

DPAS (15 CFR 700)

13b. RATING

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

RFQ

IFB

RFP

15. DELIVER TO

CODE

16. ADMINISTERED BY

CODE

17a. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO.

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED

SEE ADDENDUM

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

ITEM NO.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)

25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA                       X

ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED.

27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA

ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN  _1__

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.  ___________________________________ OFFER

COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND

DATED ________________________________.  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION

DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY

(BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE

ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED

SET FORTH HEREIN IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

(REV. 3/2005)

PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

7. FOR SOLICITATION

INFORMATION CALL:

STANDARD FORM 1449

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30                 09IHS1040647              38

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS



HHSP2332009RFQ0003

1-16-2008

WILLIAM N. LI

301-443-2425

2-17-2009/4:00PM

Program Support Center                       x

5600 Fishers Lane, RM 5-101
Rockville, MD 20847



                                                                    541690







   N/A

X

SEE BLOCK 9









See CONTINUATION Page





















Release Date:  January 16, 2009
Last day for Questions: January 29, 2009
Close Date:  February 17, 2009 (4 PM, EST)



19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

ITEM NO.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN

RECEIVED

INSPECTED

ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED:  _______________________________________________________

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT

36. PAYMENT

37. CHECK NUMBER

FOR

PARTIAL

FINAL

COMPLETE

PARTIAL

FINAL

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER

41c. DATE

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location)

42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD)

42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK


