2. CONTRACT NO.

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1OF

2

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

ED-FSA-13-R-0012
a. NAME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY

Julia Jones julia.jones@ed.gov
CODE

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER calls)

(No collect

8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

202-377-4263
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS SMALL BUSINESS HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS UNRESTRICTED OR WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB)
ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (EDWOSB)

FSA-FS2

MAR 29, 2013 12:00 PM ET
% FOR:

SET ASIDE:

United States Department of Education Federal Student Aid/Mission Support Group 830 First St NE - Suite 91F3 Washington DC 20202

NAICS:

522110

SIZE STANDARD:

8 (A) 13b. RATING

11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO

12. DISCOUNT TERMS

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE RFP

CODE

16. ADMINISTERED BY

17a CONTRACTOR/ CODE OFFEROR.

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES
18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

Please see continuation page for line item details.

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT

(For Govt. Use Only)

See Schedule
27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA ARE ARE ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

1

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF. DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

OFFER

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

(SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER

(Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER

(Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2011) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED:

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL FINAL 38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY

(Print) (Location) (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

42b. RECEIVED AT

42c. DATE REC'D

STANDARD FORM 1449
ED-FSA-13-R-0012

(REV. 3/2011)

BACK

I. Pricing Schedule Sample Pricing Template for the Operation and Maintenance services required in accordance with the Statement of Work (SOW). Offerors are required to provide the following price per borrower in Tables 1 and 2 below. Table 1 CLIN Structure ­ DMCS Pricing Template
Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS) ­Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Option Base Period OP II OP III OP IV OP IV OP VI Period (OP) I (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) 1 and up Total OP VII (1 year) OP VIII (1 year) OP IX (1 year)

CLIN 0001 0002

Description Defaulted Borrower Estimated Cost for Development and Upgrades

Table 2 CLIN Structure ­ DMCS Pricing Template
Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS) ­Operation and Maintenance (O&M) CLIN 0001 0002 Description Defaulted Borrower Estimated Cost for Development and Upgrades 1 and up Total Base Period (2 years) Option Period (OP) I (2 years) OP II (2 years) OP III (2 years) OP IV (2 years)

Table 3 CLIN Structure ­ DMCS Pricing Template ­ Optional
Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS) ­Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Option Base Period OP II OP III OP IV OP IV OP VI Period (OP) I (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) (1 year) 1 thru _ OP VII (1 year) OP VIII (1 year) OP IX (1 year)

CLIN 0001

Description Defaulted Borrower

0002

Estimated Cost for Development and Upgrades

Total

Offerors may add additional rows as necessary to identify the appropriate Tiers. In addition, Offerors may propose additional deliverables.

Table 4 CLIN Structure ­ DMCS Pricing Template ­ Optional
Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS) ­Operation and Maintenance (O&M) CLIN 0001 Description Defaulted Borrower 1 thru _ Base Period (2 years) Option Period (OP) I (2 years) OP II (2 years) OP III (2 years) OP IV (2 years)

0002

Estimated Cost for Development and Upgrades

Total

Offerors may add additional rows as necessary to identify the appropriate Tiers. In addition, Offerors may propose additional deliverables.

3

II. STATEMENT OF WORK

Debt Management and Collections System Operation and Maintenance I. Introduction This Statement of Work (SOW) sets forth the contract requirements and presents the high-level requirements for servicing Federal Student Aid's (FSA) portfolio of defaulted student loans and grant overpayment debts, and for the operation and maintenance of FSA's portfolio management database, the Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS). 1.0 Background The DMCS is a customized version of the Titanium Open Receivables Environment (ORE) software application developed by CR Software. FSA's Debt Management and Collections System (DMCS) Operations and Maintenance is currently being serviced by Xerox Education Solutions under the Common Services for Borrowers contract vehicle. 2.0 Scope of Work DMCS Servicer shall operate, maintain and continue development of FSA's portfolio management system, the DMCS, which is a customized version of the Titanium Open Receivables Environment (ORE) software developed by CR Software and service FSA's portfolio of defaulted Federal student aid debt (FFEL, FISL, Campus Based and Direct loans, and grant overpayment debts) In support of this servicing effort, the DMCS Servicer shall establish and operate the following:  An in-bound call center to respond to inquiries from borrowers and various third parties        An intake facility for correspondence, collateral and other hard-copy materials A correspondence unit to compose custom written responses to inquiries A warehouse for securely storing the collateral and other documentation related to the portfolio A payment center for processing payment files from the Treasury Lockbox and other payment sources A servicing center for making account adjustments and providing other servicing functions as needed A help desk for providing users with assistance on any of the systems supported under this contract A fulfillment center for generating and mailing hardcopy notices, forms and responses

The DMCS database requires significant development to satisfy many of the requirements outlined in this document. This document describes all of the system's functionality (even those areas that will not require additional development). See Appendix 1 for examples of desired system enhancements that FSA has identified. Development of the DMCS by the incumbent vendor is ongoing, so some of this functionality may exist at the time the new DMCS Servicer begins operating the system. Prior to that time, FSA will provide to the new DMCS Servicer a complete list of known defects, maintained by the incumbent vendor. However, FSA may not be aware of all functional deficiencies to the extent that the current vendor could be mitigating those deficiencies through workarounds. The Servicer shall collaborate with the current service provider to plan transition activities for data clean-up, knowledge sharing, transferring of loans/data (e.g., inter-system testing, scheduling loan transfers, scheduling image transfers, transferring loans, transferring images and associated images, etc.).

4

3.0 High-Level General Requirements for DMCS Operation and Maintenance High Level General Requirements for the DMCS relate to:  Scope of work  General system functionality (including user interfaces and workflow capabilities)  General principles regarding data needed to support DMCS business functions  Imaging system  Outbound correspondence  General reporting/querying capabilities II. Requirements

1.0 General The following requirements identify the overall scope of work and other general operational principles. Number 1 Requirement The Servicer shall use the client name Department of Education for the Federally Serviced Portfolio.

The Servicer shall service ED's portfolio of defaulted student loans and 2 grant overpayment debts. In support of this, the Servicer shall provide services including but not necessarily limited to: 3 a. In-bound call center 4 b. Intake facility for correspondence, collateral and other documentation 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 c. Correspondence unit for responding to written inquiries and composing other custom letters as needed d. Warehouse for securely storing the collateral and other documentation related to the portfolio e. Payment center for processing payment files from the Treasury Lockbox and other payment sources f. Servicing center for making account adjustments and providing other servicing functions as needed g. Help desk for providing users with assistance on any of the systems supported under this contract h. Fulfillment center for generating and mailing hardcopy notices, forms and responses The Servicer shall host, maintain, operate, support and modify (as needed) the following systems used to service ED's default portfolio: a. DMCS (both active and closed accounts) b. Interactive Voice Response Unit (IVRU) c. Web Portal - myeddebt.com d. eIMF workflow system for Private Collection Agencies (PCAs) e. eSIR imaging system f. PCA Invoicing subsystem g. Correspondence workflow h. Legacy Snapshot

5

Number 20 21 22

Requirement The Servicer shall retain certain files/reports based on FSA rules to facilitate audit or error resolution. The Servicer shall support annual program compliance reviews done by Federal Student Aid, or by an agent of Federal Student Aid. Unless otherwise noted, the Servicer shall complete all processing of an incoming file, inquiry, or request within four working days of receipt.

The Servicer shall create and maintain a comprehensive web-based procedures and reference manual that covers all system and Servicer functions (system operation, correspondence, call center, loan intake, etc.). 23 The Servicer shall make this resource available to FSA and any parties FSA designates. This application will be the property of FSA and FSA will have full copyright authority. The Servicer shall conduct a comprehensive review of the data converted 24 from the legacy DMCS (currently housed in the Legacy Snapshot) and correct any conversion errors or omissions. The Servicer shall support the occasional addition of new trading partners (PCAs, Federal Servicers, etc.) by providing technical support, training and 25 inter-system testing (IST) needed to enable the trading partner's successful use of and interaction with the DMCS and its associated systems.

1.1

System Functionality

The DMCS database is the system of record for FSA's portfolio of defaulted student loans and grant overpayments. The following requirements describe the basic functionality of the DMCS database and some of its associated systems. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide for Federal Student Aid and other users access to 26 the servicing system 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year except during scheduled outage periods approved by FSA. 27 The Servicer shall allow Federal Student Aid to quickly and easily update system parameters based on evolving business rules.

28 The Servicer shall provide the ability to add data elements to the DMCS. The Servicer shall store and display all information, historical and current, needed to properly service the accounts. This data includes, but is not limited to: demographic data, debt data (debt program, type, disbursement date, etc.), transaction and contact histories, address histories. The Servicer 29 shall store and display all the data elements currently displayed in DMCS, unless authorized by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall store and display additional data elements and information, as directed by Federal Student Aid. 30 The Servicer shall maintain a borrower's account/debt status.

6

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall review all tags applied during conversion from the 31 legacy DMCS and update them as needed to ensure consistency in the use and meaning of tags in the DMCS. The Servicer shall allow for the tracking of multiple status conditions 32 simultaneously on a given debt or account (e.g., an account may be in both bankruptcy and also under review for a discharge determination). The Servicer shall track, maintain and display for all users all changes to 33 debt and account information including the user, the information changed (both the original and the new value), and the date changed. The Servicer shall report changes/corrections to trading partners, as appropriate. This includes reporting data changes/corrections to: National 34 Student Loan Data System (NSLDS), Credit Bureaus, Common Origination and Disbursement (COD), etc., as applicable. See the Interface Requirements section for further details. The Servicer shall allow for mass updates of any data field or status, 35 including but not limited to: location/owner, balance adjustments, demographic changes, and notepad entries. The Servicer shall generate 1098-E and 1099-C forms to appropriate 36 accounts and report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in accordance with IRS requirements. 37 38 39 The Servicer shall capture and display the amount reported to the IRS on 1098-E and 1099-C forms for each borrower. The Servicer shall track the eligibility of guarantors and schools to receive information from Treasury, IRS and Health and Human Services (HHS). The Servicer shall establish a means for identifying a borrower's account without using the borrower's social security number.

The Servicer shall maintain and display a history of addresses attributed to 40 a borrower that indicates the source of the address, the date the address was obtained and whether the address was undeliverable. The Servicer shall allow for a known bad address to be identified on the system and blocked from being re-added as the current address for the 41 account (to prevent third parties from being repeatedly contacted as a result of skip-tracing efforts). The Servicer shall allow users to manually override this restriction. The Servicer shall have the capability to store certain addresses in the 42 system, but not display them even if used; others may need to be displayed only (cannot be automatically used to send letters). The Servicer shall allow eligible users to update certain debt and account 43 information. This includes changes to a data element, such as the debt guaranty date or date of last disbursement, and changes to the SSN. 44 The Servicer shall prevent users from updating certain information in the DMCS.

7

Number 45

Requirement The Servicer shall update DMCS to indicate the presence of a closed account. The Servicer shall allow users to quickly and easily initiate the movement of an account from the closed to the active segments of the DMCS.

46

1.1.1

User Interface

The DMCS is used by FSA, the DMCS Servicer, a number of private collection agencies (PCAs) contracted by FSA and various other FSA contractors and government employees. It therefore requires a user interface that is easily read and navigated. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide a user interface that will present options for completion of work items in English without requiring users to remember 47 or look up codes. Example: Present to the user: Approve ATB Discharge. Instead of: Remembering the Action and Result Codes FATBFRvw and FATBFAcc. The Servicer shall allow users to search for an account by multiple 48 indicators including, but not limited to, debt number, borrower identifier (ID) number, SSN, name, address, phone number, and email address. 49 The Servicer shall allow users to add free form text, notes, and comments in a separate form/field and track comments by date and user ID.

The Servicer shall display the current (as of that day) outstanding balance 50 on each debt, both with and without projected collection costs. The display shall include the principal, interest and fee balances for the account. The Servicer shall provide users with the ability to enter a future date to 51 systematically obtain a future payoff amount on the account and a breakdown for each debt, with and without collection costs. The Servicer shall provide users the ability to enter a past date to view the outstanding balance of the account and the outstanding principal, interest, 52 etc. of each debt as it existed on the date entered, with and without collection costs. 53 The Servicer shall facilitate easily readable screen prints of any screen or window in the DMCS.

For accounts where the SSN has been changed, the Servicer shall ensure 54 that the account can be retrieved by the original SSN and that users are notified of the change.

8

1.1.2

Workflow

The DMCS must efficiently support workflow routing of discharge requests, written inquiries, hearings, refunds, adjustments and other types of work. These items may flow between any of the various contractors and government staff responsible for servicing the portfolio (FSA, the DMCS Servicer, PCAs, etc.) and may or may not require FSA approval for completion. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide workflow scheduling capabilities to support all 55 debt recovery and business operations processes, including but not limited to: 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 a. Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG) b. Loan write offs/approvals c. Loan discharge approvals d. Refund approvals e. Escheatment approval f. Adversarial research and documentation g. Judgment interfaces and testimony h. Bankruptcy adversarial processing i. Claim payments to lenders k. Requests for consolidation l. Loan rehabilitation sales m. Compromises n. Treasury Offset Program (TOP) o. Federal Salary Offset (FSO) p. Litigation q. Invoicing r. Control Correspondence

The Servicer's workflow capabilities shall support: FSA staff productivity 73 tracking, aging and volumes of items in workflow, and statistical reporting and analysis of workflow activity.

9

1.3

Data

What follows are general principles related to data that is maintained in the DMCS and/or handled by the DMCS Servicer. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide systemic controls in each step of a process that ensures that required steps are completed. Example: If a discharge is approved and there are payments that must be refunded, the status of the debt cannot be shown as complete until the refund has been processed. The user interface will present the total of payments shown on the account and 74 allow the user to accept that amount to be refunded or allow the user to override that amount and either insert a new amount or reject a refund altogether. If the refund is changed or rejected, the status of the account will not be shown as complete until the user has entered a comment explaining the decision. The Servicer shall provide a means of identifying processes that have not been completed. Example: If a nightly refund file that is to be approved by 75 FSA and forwarded to FMS does not run to completion, a report will be made to the Servicer and to FSA at the time that the report fails. 76 The Servicer shall receive updates from external entities and update the borrower account and other internal entities as appropriate.

The Servicer shall receive data via web portal (e.g., litigation packages, 77 assignment files, discharge applications, disputes, complaints, U.S. Bankruptcy Court information). The Servicer shall receive and manually enter hard copy data into the 78 system (e.g., litigation packages, assignment forms, discharge applications, disputes, complaints, U.S. Bankruptcy Court information). The Servicer shall perform an automated edit check on all incoming data 79 (e.g., litigation packages, assignment files, discharge applications, disputes, complaints, U.S. Bankruptcy Court information). 80 81 82 The Servicer shall convert pseudo FISLs to FFEL loans during data conversion. The Servicer shall extract, transform, and load existing account data from DMCS and associated external databases to the Servicer's system. The Servicer shall perform integrity analysis of data transferred to the Servicer's system.

The Servicer shall edit all incoming data, whether imported from an 83 external file or entered manually, for reasonability. See specific interface or functional area for specific edit criteria.

1.4

Imaging

Servicing the default portfolio requires efficient handling of and access to images of various documents, including, but not limited to, promissory notes and borrower inquiries. The DMCS Servicer will receive documents in hard copy, microfiche and electronic form, will image these documents as needed, and will store electronic images for easy retrieval

10

by DMCS users. In addition, the DMCS Servicer will fulfill requests for images, copies and original copies of archived documents that are stored in the warehouse and that may have never been imaged. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall have the ability to identify, capture and store images 84 from internal and external imaging systems to support debt recovery and business operations. The Servicer shall provide authorized users access to the imaging system to 85 view and print images, make annotations on borrower accounts and have right-time access to view Federal Student Aid data. The Servicer shall receive collateral and incoming documents in imaged and paper format; and if received in paper format, it should be imaged and 86 stored in a format that can be ported easily to another system, printed, and retrieved by account and debt (non-proprietary). 87 88 The Servicer shall image incoming correspondence and route to the appropriate workflow queue. The Servicer shall provide borrowers the ability to view and print certain images associated with their account.

The Servicer shall make certain legacy documents, including some promissory notes, available only indirectly. The images will not be immediately available to the borrower via the web but will be made 89 available to the borrower only after review by the Servicer. There are known instances of inappropriate documents associated with certain files. FSA will provide the criteria for this. The Servicer shall develop a solution to incorporate all current DMCS 90 documents so they are available to all authorized users upon request. This includes images, hardcopy files, microfilm and microfiche.

1.5

Outbound Correspondence

The DMCS Servicer must be able to efficiently generate huge volumes of outbound correspondence and track this correspondence in the DMCS database. Users of the DMCS must know what letter was sent, when it was sent, the user or system process that initiated the letter, the address to which it was sent and whether it was returned as undeliverable. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall send letters/bills (and attachments) to eligible borrowers 91 on a predetermined basis (e.g., bills, annual disclosure letters, etc.) or upon user request (to include mass mailings). 92 The Servicer shall mail letters within 2 business days of generating them. 93 The Servicer shall generate mass mailings as needed, based on criteria or datasets provided by Federal Student Aid.

11

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall process and track undeliverable mail from the United 94 States Postal Service (USPS), and indicate on the DMCS specific letters that were undeliverable. 95 The Servicer shall send letters to the most recent deliverable address, unless Federal Student Aid provides alternate criteria.

The Servicer shall allow for Federal Student Aid requested mass mailing and individual letters to be sent to addresses already stored on the system 96 (e.g., the borrower's or employer's address) or to a custom address entered by a user. The Servicer shall maintain copies of version-controlled system letters/bills (and attachments) in a way that allows users to produce a copy of the 97 letter/bill (and attachments) as it looked on a specific date OR an imaged copy of the actual notice sent. 98 The Servicer shall maintain imaged copies of every custom response and allow users to instantly retrieve them by accessing the associated account The Servicer shall load images of all responses that have been sent, but that are not currently available for retrievable (to the extent they are available).

99

The Servicer shall maintain and display a history (at an account level) of letters/bills and attachments sent that indicates which correspondence was 100 sent, the date it was mailed, the address to which it was sent, the program or user that requested it, and whether the letter/bill was returned as undeliverable. The Servicer must generate due process system letters that list each eligible debt with identifying data elements (such as Loan Type, school, lender, 101 disbursement date) in connection with forced collections (e.g., TOP, Federal Salary Offset, etc.), and the DMCS must track and display the debts that were listed on the letter. The Servicer must generate system compromise letters, paid in full letters, rehabilitation letters, etc. that lists the debt numbers of the debts that are the 102 included in the compromise or that are paid in full, or rehabilitated, respectively, as directed by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer must be able to track the undeliverable forced collection due process notices; and, depending on the age and source of the address, 103 determine whether a new notice must be sent in order to continue the process. The Servicer shall provide Spanish language support for manually 104 generated correspondence and current Spanish-translated system generated letters. 105 FSA shall review and approve all letter text. 106 The Servicer shall, to the extent practical, use approved standard paragraphs when composing custom responses to inquiries.

12

1.6

Reporting/Querying

The DMCS must provide a robust reporting and querying capability so that FSA and its contractors can efficiently service and manage the portfolio and respond to inquiries from various authorities with oversight responsibilities. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall review all existing correspondence (including standard system notices and standard paragraphs for custom responses) and 107 recommend changes as warranted in order to comply with all regulatory, statutory and court-ordered requirements (e.g., the Higgins decision). The Servicer shall allow designated users to perform queries and reporting across all data fields; this includes the ability to create reports/output files 108 containing any combination of fields in all segments of the database (active, closed, invoice, etc.). The Servicer shall have the ability to upload a list of SSNs or debt IDs and 109 match to data/persons in the debt recovery database and provide the same dataset to the requestor with requested data elements added. 110 The Servicer shall allow users to export any data and reports to standard desktop applications and formats (e.g., fixed-width text, csv, Excel, etc.).

The Servicer shall distribute both regular and ad hoc reports to internal and 111 external entities based on Federal Student Aid criteria, in a timely manner and upon FSA request. 112 The Servicer shall distribute reports via electronic methods. 113 114 The Servicer shall store, retrieve, and regularly update operational canned reports, and allow FSA users to access and save the reports. The Servicer shall develop canned reports to support forecasting, trending, and modeling analysis, as appropriate.

The Servicer shall create monthly extracts of key database fields and make 115 these extracts easily retrievable by designated system users for the purpose of historical reports and queries. The Servicer shall offer regular training and ongoing technical support to 116 FSA staff and PCA staff including data dictionaries and entity relationship diagram, for any and all provided reporting solutions. The Servicer shall offer ongoing support for, and make available 117 improvements to, any and all provided reporting solutions, including the canned reports, in a timely manner and upon FSA request. When upgraded versions of any or all provided reporting solutions become 118 available, the Servicer shall upgrade the reporting tool(s) within one year of the upgrade availability. The Servicer shall provide FSA with ad hoc data reporting capabilities 119 using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) version 2008 or 2012.

13

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall provide the capability for FSA to use SQL Server 120 Management Studio (SSMS) version 2008 or 2012 to directly query the DMCS tables and all related objects.

2.0

Functional Requirements

This section describes both system functionality and Servicer responsibilities for servicing the DMCS portfolio. 2.1 Assignments

Schools, lenders, guarantors, Federal Servicers, and other entities submit assignment files to FSA via electronic files or hard copy. If submitted via hard copy, the Servicer manually enters the data into the system. The DMCS performs automated edit checks on the assignment file or manually-entered data to verify the accuracy and reasonability of data prior to system acceptance. In the future, the DMCS will interface with the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and the Person Record Management Service (PRMS) to obtain and/or verify data. After processing an assignment file or package, the DMCS Servicer notifies the sender that the assignment has been either accepted or rejected. If rejected, the assigning entity will have an opportunity to correct the assignment and resubmit. Once accepted, the Servicer will perform a manual review of each loan in an assignment file to ensure it has the appropriate documentation. After the documentation review is complete, the DMCS Servicer sends acceptance or rejection notices. If accepted, the account will be loaded into the DMCS database. The DMCS will interface with NSLDS, PRMS, COD, CFO systems, and the imaging system. Once a new debt is loaded, the DMCS automatically sends notification to the borrower. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall receive and edit defaulted debts: Direct, Federal Family 121 Education Loan (FFEL), Federally Insured Student Loan (FISL), and Perkins. 122 The Servicer shall receive and edit Program Overpayments (POVR) for grant overawards and shall process them within 5 working days of receipt.

The Servicer shall receive and edit other debts owed the government that 123 FSA is tasked to collect, including but not limited to CLAARP Grants, liabilities incurred through fraud, judgments, etc. The Servicer shall receive electronic assignment files or paper assignment forms from schools, lenders, guarantors, ED's Federal Servicers, ED's TPD 124 Servicer, etc., and from lenders and guarantors shall receive paper collateral and paper or electronic supporting debt documents. The Servicer shall electronically notify the sender that the electronic 125 assignment file has been received and that the file has been accepted or rejected. The Servicer shall review paper collateral and paper or electronic supporting debt documents assignment files and forms to ensure that the 126 required documentation has been included; otherwise, the submission or specific debts will be rejected.

14

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall load the debts that pass both system and manual edits 127 and generate load reports/files of accepted debts to internal and external entities. 128 129 The Servicer shall reject debts that fail one or more edits and generate reports/files of rejected debts to internal and external entities. All reports must be in a format approved by Federal Student Aid and transmitted to the entities as specified by Federal Student Aid.

The Servicer shall return to the sender the hard copy collateral and 130 documentation on rejected debts via private carrier or other means approved by FSA. 131 The Servicer shall image and index the hard copy collateral and documentation on accepted debts.

The Servicer shall store and maintain the original promissory notes, loan 132 applications, judgment documentation, assignment letters, etc. on accepted debts so that they are quickly and easily retrievable when requested. When a new debt is loaded, the Servicer shall calculate and display the 133 interest accrual on the debt from the date interest was last accrued, plus one day, using the applicable interest rate. 134 135 136 137 All reports must be in a format approved by Federal Student Aid and transmitted to the entities as specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall allow for re-assignment of a loan if the original loan has been closed for certain reasons (e.g., recalled, rehabbed, etc.). The Servicer shall process all electronic assignment files within 5 days of receipt. The Servicer shall process all hard copy documents within 15 days of receipt.

2.2

Bankruptcy

The borrower, the borrower's authorized representative, PCA or the U.S. Bankruptcy Court notifies the DMCS Servicer that a bankruptcy has been filed. In addition, the DMCS periodically provides a file of accounts in the DMCS portfolio to Banko; Banko returns a file containing bankruptcy information to DMCS. DMCS automatically updates accounts with the data provided by Banko. While in bankruptcy, debtors are protected by a stay of collection, so upon notification that a borrower is in bankruptcy, the DMCS will automatically and immediately suspend all collection activities (e.g., inactivate from TOP, and/or suspend AWG). Bankruptcy reviews and servicing may be handled by either the DMCS Servicer or by the Education Credit Management Corporation (ECMC), at FSA's discretion. For Chapter 13 accounts consisting of defaulted FFEL loans only, DMCS transfers the loans to ECMC and ECMC will take ownership of the loan. For other bankruptcy scenarios, ECMC or the DMCS Servicer will make a dischargeability

15

determination upon notification from the bankruptcy court that the bankruptcy is discharged or dismissed. ECMC or the DMCS Servicer will notify the borrower of the determination. If the loan is dischargeable, ECMC or the DMCS Servicer will apply the appropriate closing transaction. ECMC or the DMCS Servicer will also initiate a refund request for any involuntary payments received during the bankruptcy stay of collections (regardless of dischargeability) or after discharge if the loan is dischargeable. If the account is not discharged, the DMCS will allow collection activity to resume. Note that most bankruptcy servicing is currently performed by ECMC, but the DMCS Servicer is required to provide this service at FSA's discretion. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall identify accounts in a bankruptcy status, protect them 138 from collection action, and automatically suspend any enforced collection actions in progress (e.g., AWG, TOP, FSO, etc.). 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 The Servicer shall service accounts while in bankruptcy, including but not limited to: a. Filing the proper paperwork b. Filing proof of claim c. Stop TOP , AWG and other collections d. Make refunds f. Review Chapter 13 repayment plans g. Respond to Claim/Plan objections

The Servicer shall prepare litigation referral packages for bankruptcy court 146 (gather documentation for referral to the US Attorney). Litigation packages include but are not limited to: 147 a. Adversary proceedings 148 b. Claim/plan objections 149 c. Motion for sanctions The Servicer shall support the litigation process by performing the 150 following activities: preparing declarations, interrogatories, and production of document, and other support as needed, for FSA review and signature. The Servicer shall provide the bankruptcy status and support needed to 151 protect against violation of the automatic stay and to assist with defending or responding to other bankruptcy actions or inquiries. 152 The Servicer shall conduct a match of the default portfolio with Banko to verify bankruptcy status and to load matched data to the DMCS.

The Servicer shall create an outbound file for Banko (containing data for every borrower in the portfolio) and process an inbound file from Banko 153 (containing data about borrowers who have filed bankruptcy or had bankruptcy proceedings concluded). 154 The Servicer shall assign Chapter 13 accounts to ECMC only if the account consists of FFEL loans.

If the Servicer determines that the bankruptcy account is not eligible for 155 assignment to ECMC (i.e., Chapter 7, mixed account), the account is referred to ECMC for servicing.

16

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall review discharged bankruptcies to determine whether the 156 loan(s) in DMCS are dischargeable, and will notify the borrower (or borrower's authorized representative) of the dischargeability. 157 The Servicer shall update the account and resume collections activity if the account is not discharged at the conclusion of the bankruptcy.

For dischargeable debts, the Servicer shall close the account with the 158 appropriate write-off transaction, and report the loan correctly to relevant trading partners (e.g., NSLDS, Credit Bureaus, CAIVRS, etc.).

2.3

Customer Service

The DMCS Servicer will handle most interactions with borrowers who are not assigned to a PCA, and will provide limited service to PCA borrowers. Borrower inquiries will come in the form of telephone calls, written inquiries and via the web portal. Types of inquiries include balance inquiries, disputes about the debt, repayment negotiations and complaints. The DMCS Servicer will update the borrower's demographic information, answer questions, provide copies of promissory notes and payment histories, counsel borrowers on options for resolving their debt, negotiate repayment agreements, and provide other services as needed. Inquiries may come from third parties such as a borrower's authorized representative, AWG employers, or schools, and the DMCS Servicer will only provide information as allowed by Federal privacy guidelines. The DMCS Servicer will provide service in Spanish as needed. What follows are general requirements for customer service applicable to all forms of inquiry. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide notifications to borrowers and other stakeholders 159 regarding account status using integrated communication strategies (e.g., email, text, Interactive Voice Response Unit (IVRU, web portal, mail). 160 The Servicer shall provide access for the Customer Service Center staff to the DMCS and NSLDS.

The Servicer shall provide Spanish language support in all modes of 161 customer interaction, including but not limited to: IVRU, phone calls, correspondence and web portal. 162 163 The Servicer shall respond to inquiries received via phone, fax, email and regular mail. The Servicer shall respond to written and oral (telephonic) requests, including but not limited to:

164 a. disputes over the amount and/or validity of a debt 165 b. discharge requests 166 c. requests for hearing (for AWG, TOP and Federal Salary Offset) 167 d. requests for account information (including, but not limited to, requests for promissory notes, balance requests, transaction/payment histories)

168 e. credit reporting disputes (consumer dispute verifications)

17

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall provide the borrower with information on who is servicing their debts and how to contact them; this includes borrowers in 169 the DMCS (active, closed and archived) and borrowers with other Title IV debts in NSLDS. 170 The Servicer shall only provide Privacy Act-protected information to authorized individuals (the borrower, borrower's representative, etc.).

The Servicer shall comply with Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and provide reasonable accommodations, as needed, to assist 171 disabled borrowers, including, but not limited to, producing written materials into braille, reading written materials out loud to a borrower or providing audio translation of information on the web portal. The Servicer shall provide limited service to borrowers referred to a PCA, including providing account information and taking payments. The 172 Servicer shall not negotiate repayment arrangements nor suggest repayment options other than payment in full. 173 The Servicer shall be the first line for escalated issues. 174 The Servicer shall respond to and resolve customer complaints; and execute Federal Student Aid's escalation plan.

175 The Servicer shall explain default repayment options to borrowers. 176 The Servicer shall explain collection tools to borrowers. 177 178 179 The Servicer shall counsel borrowers on discharge and other dispute processes. The Servicer shall respond to inquiries from employers about AWG program requirements and processes. The Servicer shall respond to inquiries from schools about borrowers' eligibility for Title IV aid. The Servicer shall generate and send a repayment agreement and monthly billing statement.

180 The Servicer shall be the first line for initial payment setup. 181

182 The Servicer shall process credit card payment requests. 183 The Servicer shall contact prior debt holders (schools, lenders, servicers, guarantors) as needed to accurately respond to account inquiries.

184 The Servicer shall service the in-house portion of split DOJ accounts

2.3.1

Call Center

The DMCS Servicer will maintain both an Integrated Voice Response Unit (IVRU) and a live call center for responding to telephonic inquiries. In addition to fielding calls about accounts in the DMCS portfolio, the DMCS Servicer will also use NSLDS to refer borrowers to their other loan holders. In general, the DMCS Servicer will not make outbound collection calls, though outbound calls may be needed in limited circumstances to properly service the account.

18

Number 185

Requirement The Servicer shall take inbound calls and make outbound calls as necessary to service accounts.

The Servicer shall maintain an Integrated Voice Response Unit (IVRU) to 186 provide automated account servicing including, but not limited to: PCA/DOJ referrals, balance information, 1098 info, recent payments 187 The Servicer shall provide Federal Student Aid the ability to monitor live and recorded phone calls remotely.

The Servicer shall provide Spanish language support through the IVRU. 188 The IVRU shall have a Spanish language option to send borrowers to Spanish speaking customer service representatives. The Servicer shall not actively contact borrowers unless the borrower has 189 contacted the Customer Service Center or at the direction of Federal Student Aid.

2.3.2

Correspondence Unit

The DMCS Servicer will respond to written inquiries and will compose custom responses and letters as needed. In general, the DMCS Servicer will use FSA-approved standard paragraphs when assembling a custom response. The DMCS Servicer will conduct the research necessary to compose a thorough and accurate response, including contacting prior loan holders and other relevant third parties. In addition to regular written inquiries, the DMCS Servicer will draft hearing responses and position papers, respond to requests for promissory notes and compose other custom correspondence as needed by FSA. The DMCS Servicer will also respond to control Inquiries (e.g., from Congressional offices or the White House). Hearing responses and control inquiries are subject to FSA review, and have established turnaround timeframes. Number 190 Requirement The Servicer shall receive borrower disputes of debts, conduct resolution activities, resolve the dispute and notify the borrower.

The Servicer shall accurately prepare and respond to control correspondence (correspondence sent to Federal Student Aid from the White House, Congress, and other high Government officials). Upon 191 receipt of control correspondence, the Servicer will perform research and create a draft response that will be reviewed by FSA. The timeframe to create the draft response is a maximum of 4 business days. The Servicer shall locate promissory notes upon request from FSA or a PCA. This includes reaching out to the lender, school, servicer or guaranty 192 agency that assigned the loan to FSA or to any other known repository of images (COD, LC images, etc.) 193 The Servicer shall respond to credit reporting consumer dispute verifications received via the eOscar system

19

2.3.3

Web Portal

The DMCS Servicer will maintain a secure borrower web portal through which borrowers can obtain account information, make certain updates, download forms, initiate inquiries and lodge complaints. Both English and a Spanish version of the website will be available. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide a web portal for borrowers that provides essential account information (e.g., balance, payment history and PCA 194 servicing the account), allows the borrower to make limited demographic updates and allows the borrower to make secure inquiries (including lodging complaints against a PCA). The Servicer shall store and display the fact that the borrower made any 195 changes via the web portal; the Servicer shall record the date/time of change, the field changed and the before and after values

2.4

Default Resolution

The following sections describe the various ways, other than payment in full, that a defaulted loan can be resolved. 2.4.1 Consolidation

To initiate a consolidation, the borrower submits an application for consolidation to a loan consolidation servicer. The consolidating servicer will send an Electronic Verification Certificate (EVC) to DMCS requesting information about the loan(s) to be consolidated. The DMCS will return an electronic file of certification data. In some instances the consolidating servicer may send a paper Loan Verification Certificate (LVC) to the DMCS Servicer, in which case the DMCS Servicer will complete and return the LVC to the consolidating servicer. Whether provided electronically or manually, the Servicer will update the DMCS to show that certification data has been provided. Payoff will be received via IPAC. The DMCS will automatically calculate overpayments and underpayments, and will report underpayments that are larger than $25 to the consolidating servicer. The DMCS Servicer will refund any overpayment to the consolidating servicer. The PCAs utilize a special process called Fast-Track, in which they (not the DMCS Servicer) prepare the LVCs. In this process, the PCA manually updates the DMCS to show that certification has been done, but the payoff and post-payoff processes are the same as described above. Number 196 197 198 199 Requirement The Servicer shall identify and display the borrower debts that are ineligible for consolidation. The Servicer shall accurately and timely complete and return Loan Verification Certificates received on paper or electronically. The Servicer shall notify PCAs of borrowers who have applied for Direct Loan consolidation. The Servicer shall receive consolidation payoffs and close the accounts upon notification of payment.

20

Number

Requirement

When applying a lender consolidation payoff payment to an account, the 200 Servicer shall only apply the payment to the specific debts indicated on the LVC. The Servicer shall generate a notification to the borrower, after receiving the consolidation payoff, stating that the applicable debts owed to Federal 201 Student Aid have been paid in full and that future contact concerning their new debt should be made with their new lender. The Servicer shall identify and resolve underfunded consolidations, 202 including accounts where there is a reversal of a payment transaction (bounced check, TOP reversal, etc.) after the consolidation

2.4.2

Discharges and Cancellation

A borrower or a borrower representative submits an application for a discharge request (i.e., death, false certification, closed school, etc.) either directly to the DMCS Servicer or to their PCA. The PCA will only work death and disability discharges; all others will be forwarded to the DMCS Servicer for a determination. In some instance (e.g., hearings or control mail inquiries), the DMCS Servicer will work any discharge request even if a PCA is servicing the account. The DMCS will move the in-house discharge applications into an appropriate workflow and suspend collection activity (e.g., prevent TOP certification) during the review. FSA reviews and either approves or rejects the DMCS Servicer's discharge recommendation. The DMCS Servicer notifies the borrower that the discharge application has been either accepted or rejected. If discharge is granted, the DMCS Servicer applies the appropriate closing transaction. For some types of discharge, the DMCS Servicer may have to calculate and initiate refund(s) for FSA approval. If discharge is denied, the DMCS automatically allows collection activity to resume. PCAs submit discharge recommendations to FSA via the eIMF workflow tool. FSA indicates its approval of a discharge by recalling the account with a discharge-specific recall code, in which case the DMCS automatically applies the appropriate closing transaction and the DMCS Servicer initiates any necessary refunds for FSA approval. Discharges due to total and permanent disability (TPD) are handled slightly differently. FSA does not review the DMCS Servicer's recommendations. Instead, the DMCS transfers loans that are recommended for discharge to FSA's TPD servicer. The TPD servicer makes a final discharge determination and monitors the account for three years. At any point during that three-year review, the TPD servicer may reinstate the loan and return it to DMCS. DMCS returns reinstated loans to collections. Number Requirement

203 The Servicer shall receive discharge applications. The Servicer shall provide discharge and cancellation recommendations for Federal Student Aid approval for reasons including, but not necessarily limited to: death, total and permanent disability (TPD including Veteran's 204 Disability discharges), closed school, unauthorized signature, fraud, false certification of ability to benefit, unpaid tuition refund, teaching, and military, medical and public service

21

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall route all discharge requests, except TPD and death, to 205 internal servicer worklists regardless of whether the account is held by a PCA The Servicer shall cease collection activities while a discharge 206 determination is pending and return accounts to collection if determination is unfavorable The Servicer shall allow users to override the suspension of collections 207 during discharge review--e.g., to allow collections to continue even while a discharge request is being reviewed. 208 209 210 211 The Servicer shall have the ability to transfer disability discharge debts to the Total and Permanent Disability servicer (TPD). The Servicer shall cancel debts and make all financial adjustments when needed, including issuing any needed refunds The Servicer shall allow for the application of a partial discharge to the borrower's account. The Servicer shall allow for Federal Student Aid to update the borrower account to reflect a total discharge.

If the debt is dischargeable then the Servicer shall write off the debt for the 212 appropriate reason (e.g., bankruptcy, death, closed school, etc.) and apply a unique debt-level tag reflecting the discharge reason. 213 The Servicer shall notify borrowers (and authorized borrower representatives) of discharge determinations

214 The Servicer shall process SSA death information. 215 The Servicer shall have the ability to notify NSLDS, credit bureaus and any other relevant entities of debt discharge statuses.

2.4.3

Rehabilitation

Borrowers may rehabilitate their defaulted student loans by making 9 monthly payments of an approved amount. Loans with judgments and previously rehabilitated loans are generally not eligible for rehabilitation. In general, borrowers will be required to sign a rehabilitation agreement, and the DMCS will track all of these criteria and display a loan's eligibilit y for rehab. Upon completion of all eligibility requirements the DMCS will transfer the loan to a Federal Servicer and delete the loan's credit reporting tradeline. The DMCS also supports the balance sensitive rehabilitation (BSR) process for the PCAs. In this process the DMCS tracks and displays the borrower's eligibility similar to how regular rehabs are tracked. Instead of transferring the eligible loans to a new servicer, the DMCS notifies the consolidation servicer of eligible loans and the PCA submits a completed consolidation package. The DMCS uniquely codes the consolidation payoff so that it results in credit bureau tradeline deletion for the borrower and rehab compensation for the PCA.

22

Number 216 217

Requirement The Servicer shall identify and display the debts that have met all requirements for rehabilitation. The Servicer shall identify and display the borrower debts that are ineligible for rehabilitation.

The Servicer shall send an electronic notification to the PCA/Federal 218 Student Aid highlighting debts that have met all the requirements for rehabilitation. 219 220 The Servicer shall identify as ineligible for rehab any FFEL or Direct Loan that was previously rehabilitated on/after 8/14/2008. The Servicer shall identify as ineligible for rehab any NDSL-Perkins Loan that was previously rehabilitated.

221 The Servicer shall identify as ineligible for rehab any loan with a judgment. The Servicer shall prepare new promissory notes for NDSL-Perkins loans with a judgment if the borrower is working toward rehabilitation and shall 222 allow rehabilitation upon receipt of the signed new prom note, once all other eligibility criteria have been met. The Servicer shall check to see if a rehabilitation agreement is on file in the system for any loan where one is required (currently FFEL and NDSL223 Perkins, but eventually Direct) and if no agreement is on file shall generate and send a rehabilitation agreement to the borrower for in-house accounts. 224 225 The Servicer shall transmit data about rehabilitated loans to the receiving servicer. The Servicer shall generate an electronic notification to the PCA and mail a letter to the borrower informing them of the debt rehabilitation.

The Servicer shall close rehabilitated debts with an appropriate transaction 226 and apply a unique tag to show that the loan has been transferred and the receiving servicer. 227 For borrowers who have previously rehabilitated other loans, the Servicer shall transfer the borrower's newly eligible loans to the same servicer.

The Servicer shall support the balance sensitive rehabilitation (BSR) 228 process, wherein borrowers with a large balance of FFEL/FISL loans earn rehab eligibility but then apply for consolidation. 229 The servicer shall treat BSR payoffs as rehabilitations for the purpose of PCA fees.

When applying a balance sensitive rehabilitation payoff payment to an 230 account, the Servicer shall only apply the payment to the debts indicated in the rehabilitation agreement. 231 The Servicer shall report loans paid off by a BSR payoff as "paid by consolidation" to NSLDS.

232 The Servicer shall assign a unique transaction code to BSR payoffs. 233 The Servicer shall assign a unique tag to debts that have been paid via BSR.

23

Number 234

Requirement The Servicer shall delete the credit bureau tradeline for loans that are rehabilitated or paid off by BSR payoff.

The Servicer shall identify and resolve new debit balances created on 235 rehabilitated debts caused by reversals of transactions made prior to the rehabilitation, e.g. TOP reversal, bounced checks, etc. 236 The Servicer shall provide collateral, documents and/or other account information for requests on rehabilitated/consolidated accounts.

2.4.4

Title IV Reinstatement

Borrowers who owe a defaulted student loan are generally ineligible for further Title IV (Federal) financial assistance. They can reinstate their eligibility one time by making six consecutive timely monthly payments according to an approved payment plan. Borrowers who owe a grant overpayment debt can earn reinstatement immediately upon agreeing to an approved payment plan. They retain their eligibility so long as they remain in compliance with the payment agreement. If they fall out of compliance they become permanently ineligible until the defaulted debt is resolved. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall identify accounts that are currently eligible for reinstatement of Title IV eligibility (borrower has made six consecutive 237 payments on defaulted debts, or entered an approved repayment plan for grant overpayments). The Servicer shall identify accounts ineligible for reinstatement of Title IV 238 eligibility. Reinstatement may only be earned once; if borrower falls out of repayment after reinstatement s/he may not earn reinstatement again. The Servicer shall allow authorized users to override the system's Title IV 239 reinstatement determination and classify a borrower as eligible or ineligible.

2.4.5

Compromise

It is sometimes in FSA's interest to accept something less than payment in full as satisfaction of the debt; such agreements are called compromises. For in-house accounts, the DMCS Servicer will negotiate a compromise agreement with the borrower following guidelines established by FSA. PCAs will negotiate compromises on their accounts. The DMCS records the terms of the compromise (amount and due date) and tracks the borrower's payments to determine whether the compromise has been met. Once the compromise has been met, the DMCS will close the debt out with a unique transaction and send notification to the borrower. The DMCS also needs to allow for handling of discretionary compromises--those that fall outside of FSA's normal formula for an acceptable compromise. PCAs will submit these for FSA approval via the eIMF workflow tool. The DMCS Servicer will submit them for FSA approval via the DMCS escalated issues workflow.

24

PCAs may also negotiate a non-standard compromise, wherein they agree to make FSA whole by reducing their commission. In this case, the DMCS must calculate the correct commission needed to make sure FSA realizes the same net revenue (borrower payment less PCA commission) as it would have in a standard compromise agreement. Number 240 241 Requirement The Servicer shall identify compromised accounts/debts as the compromise agreement is met. The Servicer shall close compromised accounts/debts when payments have cleared.

The Servicer shall track the compromised amount offered (e.g., a 242 breakdown of principal, interest, and/or fees to be paid), the debts involved in the compromise and the date the compromised amount is due. If the compromised amount is received by the due date, the Servicer shall apply the amount to the debts in accordance with the compromise 243 agreement (e.g., according to what the borrower was told to pay in principal, interest, and/or fees), and write off the remaining fees, interest, and/or principal. 244 The Servicer shall handle compromises at both the borrower and debt level. 245 The Servicer shall handle the following types of compromises: 246 a. standard (formula established by FSA) 247 b. discretionary (approved individually by FSA) 248 249 c. non-standard (below FSA minimum, but PCA will make FSA whole via reduced fee) The Servicer shall provide a means for Federal Student Aid to make a determination on discretionary compromise offers.

The Servicer shall provide an efficient means of closing accounts as paid 250 compromise at the direction of FSA. (Compromises agreed to by PCAs but not properly entered in the system.)

2.5

Forced Collections

Forced collection includes Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG), the Treasury Offset Program (TOP), the Federal Salary Offset (FSO) program and litigation referrals to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). The following requirements are common to all of these forced collection processes. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall electronically identify eligible accounts and debts for 251 forced collection (e.g.,TOP, FSO, AWG), based on criteria provided by Federal Student Aid. 252 The Servicer shall process and send borrower forced collection notifications.

25

253 254 255 256

The Servicer shall electronically track forced collection due process activities. The Servicer shall electronically process, track, and maintain borrower document requests, hearing requests, and resolutions. The Servicer shall draft hearing decisions for validation by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall electronically track the forced collections hearing determination.

257 The Servicer shall have the ability to suspend forced collections.

2.5.1

Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG)

The DMCS will identify AWG-eligible accounts. PCAs will also identify eligible accounts/debts for AWG and initiate AWG in the DMCS. The DMCS will generate a Notice of Proposed Wage Withholding (NPWW) to the borrower stating FSA's intent to garnish. This notice gives borrowers 30 days to avoid garnishment either by entering into an approved voluntary repayment plan or by requesting a hearing so that they may dispute the enforceability or collectability of the debt. Borrowers may request a hearing via web portal or in hard copy at any point in the garnishment process. If the request is timely (received within 37 days after the NPWW sent date), the garnishment process will be suspended until the hearing is concluded. If the request is untimely, the DMCS will only suspend garnishment if it takes more than 60 days to complete the hearing. The Servicer will image the request for hearing (RFH) and load it into an automated workflow tracking system. The PCA will have first review of the RFH and may cancel the RFH if the borrower agrees to enter voluntary repayment. The Servicer will draft a hearing decision for FSA approval. Possible hearing decisions are: favorable (AWG is suspended because debt is not enforceable), unfavorable (AWG commences), partially favorable (AWG commences because borrower's valid objection did not fully invalidate the debt), full hardship (AWG is suspended temporarily) and partial hardship (AWG commences at less than 15% of disposable pay). Thirty days after the NPWW has been sent, the DMCS will automatically identify eligible debts for AWG validation by FSA. If FSA rejects an account, the DMCS will send an automated rejection notification to the PCA. If FSA approves an account for garnishment, the DMCS automatically generates a withholding order to the employer. The employer will begin garnishing wages of the employee and send payments to the Lockbox. The DMCS will identify and send reminder notices to employers that do not comply with the garnishment order, and in some instances FSA will prepare a Non-Compliant Employer litigation package to pursue legal action. The DMCS will automatically notify employers when an account is nearly paid off and will automatically send a stop garnishment order once the account is satisfied. Number 258 Requirement The Servicer shall allow users to generate an employment verification letter to employers via the DMCS.

259 The Servicer shall allow users to create a new employer record.

26

Number 260 261

Requirement The Servicer shall distinguish between employers with actual employer IDs and those with "pseudos".

The Servicer shall automatically interface with the New Hires database for AWG candidates. 262 The Servicer shall store and display the employment verification date. 263 The Servicer shall allow authorized users to initiate AWG. 264 The Servicer shall have the ability to reject AWG requests. 265 The Servicer shall generate a notice of proposed wage withholding (NPWW) to eligible AWG candidates upon a user's initiation of AWG.

The Servicer shall allow for a borrower to be associated with more than one 266 employer, and for garnishment to proceed against multiple employers simultaneously. 267 268 269 270 The Servicer shall allow for Federal Student Aid validation of AWG requests. The Servicer shall automatically exclude accounts from validation for garnishment orders based on FSA-defined account and activity criteria. The Servicer shall notify users of the edit failure(s) preventing validation of an account. The Servicer shall enable users to correct validation edit failures so that validation can commence.

271 The Servicer shall enable FSA to sample audit validation candidates. The Servicer shall enable FSA to approve validation candidates either individually, or in batches. The Servicer shall enable FSA to exclude individual accounts from 273 validation. The Servicer shall automatically remove accounts from validation 274 candidacy when new ineligibility conditions occur. 272 275 276 277 278 279 The Servicer shall allow FSA to manually override the system's validation determination. The Servicer shall generate AWG withholding orders on validated accounts. The Servicer shall allow for AWG withholding orders that specify a reduced amount or percentage. The Servicer shall enable employers to report on and updated a borrower's employment status. The Servicer shall receive employer payments via all Treasury payment methods.

When applying an AWG payment to an account, the Servicer shall only 280 apply the payment to the specific debts selected for AWG (i.e., listed on the NPWW). 281 The Servicer shall send notices to delinquent AWG employers. 282 The Servicer shall enable FSA to identify delinquent employers. 283 The Servicer shall generate an AWG notice to employers of the remaining balance on nearly-paid accounts or overpaid accounts.

27

Number

Requirement

284 The Servicer shall automatically cancel AWG once a debt is satisfied. 285 The Servicer shall enable users to cancel AWG at any time. 286 The Servicer shall maintain AWG employer data and allow for easy updates by authorized users, including the merger of two employer records. The Servicer shall enable users to excuse an employer from garnishment for valid reasons defined by FSA.

287

The Servicer shall enable users to suspend AWG for a variety of reasons. In suspension, new AWG actions do not occur until the suspension ends, 288 and when it ends the process continues from the point at which it was suspended. 289 The Servicer shall enable users to enter AWG suspension reasons and expiration dates.

2.5.2

Treasury Offset Process (TOP)

TOP is the process through which Federal (and some state) payments (other than salaries) may be offset in order to satisfy a borrower's debt. The Servicer prepares a file with defaulted debt/account information requesting addresses from the Department of the Treasury (Treasury), based on FSA criteria, and consolidates it with files submitted to the DMCS by Guaranty Agencies (GAs). The DMCS will interface with Treasury to obtain the pre-offset address data. The DMCS stores pre-offset address data for accounts held by Federal Student Aid. If the request is from a GA, the DMCS will generate an automated notification to the GA with pre-offset address information. Accounts/debts eligible for TOP in the DMCS and accounts certified and submitted by GAs are sent to Treasury for offset. Before a debt can be certified to Treasury, the borrower must receive a due process notice. The DMCS automatically generates these notices to eligible borrowers in the DMCS portfolio according to criteria provided by FSA. Each GA is responsible for sending due process notices and certifying the eligible accounts before sending the account to the DMCS for certification. The due process notice informs the borrower of their rights; and provides an opportunity to enter into a voluntary repayment plan to avoid offset, or to object to offset or contest the debt. For debts held by FSA, if a request for review (RFR) is received from the borrower, the DMCS tracks the request. The Servicer will prepare a draft decision for FSA approval. If the request for review was timely (received with 72 days of the due process notice), the account cannot be certified in TOP until the borrower's objections have been addressed. Additionally, if a determination was made that the debt is not eligible for offset, the debt cannot be certified in TOP. If a determination is made that the debt is eligible for offset or the borrower does not respond to the notice, the account may be certified in TOP. The certification process involves performing analysis of accounts for eligibility in TOP. For example, the outstanding principal and interest of the debt must be over a specified dollar amount, the borrower cannot currently be in bankruptcy, and if the debt is eligible to be reported to Credit Bureaus, it must be reported prior to certification. Once the DMCS submits eligible accounts to Treasury and Treasury certifies them, offsets may begin. Treasury sends a Weekly Collection file with offset/reversal information to Federal Student Aid. The DMCS receives and records TOP data and passes to GAs their respective information. Treasury can offset monies from federal and state tax refunds and

28

federal and state payments including Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Social Security Administration (SSA) retirement and disability benefit payments, vendor payments, and federal salaries (See FSO section). The borrower remains certified in TOP until the debt is paid in full or the borrower is removed from the program. The Servicer prepares a TOP Weekly Update file. GAs submit their TOP Weekly Update file to the Servicer for consolidation. The Servicer will update the DMCS with guarantor information and submit the consolidated TOP Weekly Update file to Treasury. In response, Treasury prepares a Weekly Unprocessable file. The Servicer updates the DMCS and extracts the Federal Student Aid specific unprocessable information and passes guarantors their respective unprocessable information. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall track and display TOP certified accounts including, but not limited to: the certifying entity (Department of Education and/or 290 guarantor); contact information; offset/reversal/refund and increase/decrease effective dates, processing dates and amounts; and certified and current TOP balances. The Servicer shall receive and edit TOP Pre-Offset Address files from the 291 GAs; provide ED Unprocessable reports to the GAs; merge the GA processable records into one file and transmit the file to Treasury. The Servicer shall receive a GA TOP Pre-Offset Address file from Treasury 292 and create individual GA address files and transmit them to the appropriate GAs. 293 The Servicer shall create an ED TOP Pre-Offset Address file, based on criteria provided by Federal Student Aid, and transmit the file to Treasury.

The Servicer shall receive an ED TOP Pre-Offset Address file from 294 Treasury and store, but not display, the borrower's pre-offset addresses provided by Treasury. The Servicer shall use the pre-offset address or the IRS skip-trace address, obtained within the last 365 days, to mail the TOP 65-day notice. If 295 another address is used and the TOP notice is undeliverable, the account is not eligible for TOP. The Servicer shall receive and edit TOP Certification/Recertification files from the GAs; provide ED Unprocessable reports and files to the GAs; 296 merge the GA TOP Certification/Recertification processable records and transmit the file to Treasury; and update and display the processable certification information. The Servicer shall receive and process the TOP Certification/Recertification unprocessable records from Treasury; update 297 DMCS; and create individual GA files and transmit the files to the appropriate GA. The Servicer shall select eligible ED accounts/debts for TOP Certification/Recertification, based on criteria provided by Federal Student 298 Aid, and create TOP Certification/Recertification files containing the eligible ED accounts and the appropriate address and alias name records.

29

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall receive TOP Certification/Recertification Unprocessable 299 files from Treasury; update DMCS; and correct and resubmit the unprocessable records, as appropriate. The Servicer shall systematically report all decreases; increases; refunds of offsets; refund adjustments; inactivations; re-activations; payment stream 300 reductions, stops and starts; address changes; names changes, etc., that occur on ED-certified accounts on a TOP Weekly Update file. 301 The Servicer shall systematically calculate and report decreases and increases on TOP-certified debts.

The Servicer shall provide authorized users the ability to identify which 302 TOP offsets are associated with a refund, so that the refund record can be properly reported to Treasury. The Servicer shall provide authorized users the ability to inactivate and 303 reactivate ED-certified TOP accounts; remove debts; and to reduce, stop or start offsets of specific payment streams. The Servicer shall receive and edit TOP Weekly Update files from the GAs; provide ED Unprocessable reports and files to the GAs; merge the 304 GA TOP Weekly Update processable records with the ED update records and transmit the file to Treasury; and update DMCS with the weekly update information. The Servicer shall receive and process the TOP Weekly Update 305 unprocessable record file from Treasury; update DMCS; and create individual GA files and transmit the files to the appropriate GA. 306 The Servicer shall correct and resubmit the ED TOP Weekly Update unprocessable records, as appropriate.

The Servicer shall receive Weekly Collection files from Treasury; update 307 and display the information in DMCS; and create individual GA files and transmit them to the appropriate GAs. 308 309 The Servicer shall post the ED TOP offsets and TOP reversals to the respective ED accounts and debts. When applying a TOP offset to an account, the Servicer shall only apply the offset to the TOP-certified debts.

The Servicer shall apply the applicable TOP offset fee to the account and 310 apply the TOP offset to the TOP fee, interest, and then to principal if/when interest is satisfied. 311 312 313 The Servicer shall apply TOP reversals to an account, based on the application of the offset that is being reversed. The Servicer shall apply TOP reversal fees to the account, when provided by Treasury. The Servicer shall provide a method for Federal Student Aid to access, review, and approve TOP files.

30

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall provide TOP reports, as requested by Federal Student Aid, including a report indicating the number and dollar amount of offsets, 314 reversals, offset fees, and reversal fees, reported in each Weekly Collection file and Year-to-Date figures , broken down by Site ID.

2.5.3

FSO

Federal Salary Offset (FSO) is a special type of Treasury Offset; Federal employees who are certified for TOP may have up to 15% of their Federal salary offset. Treasury will notify DMCS of potential FSO candidates. The DMCS identifies if the account is held by a GA or Federal Student Aid. If the account is held by a GA, the DMCS will not send notification to the GA based on Treasury's guidance; at this time only debts held by FSA are eligible for FSO. If the loan is held by FSA, and it meets FSA's selection criteria, the DMCS sends the borrower a due process notice. The borrower can request a hearing pertaining to salary offset. If the borrower does not request a hearing or get into satisfactory repayment, the DMCS will initiate salary offset. If the borrower does request a hearing, the DMCS will track the hearing in workflow and the Servicer will draft a position paper for FSA review. The actual hearing is conducted by an official at Treasury who issues the final decision. Possible hearing decisions are: favorable (offset is suspended because the debt is not enforceable), unfavorable (offset may commence), partially favorable (offset may commence because the borrower's valid objection did not invalidate the debt altogether), full hardship (offset is suspended temporarily), and partial hardship (offset commences at less than 15%). The Hearing Official sends their decision to the borrower and FSA. If the account can be offset, the DMCS will notify Treasury to commence salary offset. Offsets then occur through the regular TOP process. Number 315 316 Requirement The Servicer shall receive a file of TOP-certified borrowers that are Federal employees from Treasury. The Servicer shall generate, image and send the Federal Salary Offset package to the appropriate hearing official.

The Servicer shall receive and image the hearing official's determination package; update DMCS with the determination; and provide a copy of the 317 determination to Federal Student Aid, so that the appropriate updates are made to the account/debts. 318 The Servicer shall notify Treasury to initiate salary offset, indicating reduced amount or percentage, as appropriate.

2.5.4

Litigation

PCAs will submit litigation packages to FSA via the DMCS. If submitted via hard copy, the Servicer will key data into the DMCS. The DMCS performs automated edit checks on litigation packages. The DMCS notifies PCAs that the litigation package has been either accepted or rejected. If rejected, the PCA will receive a notice to correct the litigation package and resubmit. Once accepted, FSA will perform a manual review of the litigation package, which includes ensuring FSA has all supporting documentation necessary to process the litigation package.

31

The DMCS will transfer the litigation package to DOJ. DOJ reviews the litigation package and makes a determination on whether or not to litigate. For rejected litigation packages, DOJ returns the materials to the DMCS. For litigation packages with missing information, the Servicer completes the litigation package, makes updates, and resubmits the package to DOJ. When DOJ agrees to litigate the case, the case is assigned to a U.S. Attorney's Office (USAO). Once the USAO receives the case, an attempt is made to collect from the borrower. If a settlement cannot be reached with the borrower, litigation will proceed. FSA provides technical assistance to the U.S. Attorney's office, prepares supporting documents, and serves as an expert witness, if needed, during the litigation process. After a court order is received or a settlement has been reached, the USAO will attempt to establish a repayment schedule with the borrower (based on the ruling). Payments from the borrower are made to DOJ. The payment is reported to the DMCS. DOJ charges a collection fee, which is charged to the borrower. When paid/settled in full or otherwise concluded, the USAO sends a closing notification to the DMCS. Alternately, if the payment period will be lengthy, or the USAO believes the borrower is unable to pay, the USAO closes the case and returns the case to the DMCS for monitoring, pending payment/satisfaction in full or other appropriate resolution. Once the Servicer receives information from the USAO, the borrower's account in the DMCS is updated. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall support Federal Student Aid and DOJ in the execution of 319 litigation activities if a borrower refuses to voluntarily repay their debt and all other forced collection methods are unsuccessful. 320 For accounts with both loans assigned to DOJ and in-house debts, the Servicer shall provide servicing for the in-house debts.

The Servicer shall automatically generate a litigation referral package for 321 Federal Student Aid validation when a DOJ account receives an additional debt. 322 The Servicer shall monitor and track DOJ accounts. The Servicer shall maintain the litigation status on the borrower's account 323 throughout the litigation process. 324 The Servicer shall allow for adjustments or removal of interest rates based on judgments.

When applying a DOJ payment to an account, the Servicer shall only apply 325 the payment to the debts that were referred to DOJ and apply non-DOJ payments to the debts not referred to DOJ. 326 The Servicer shall process and update accounts returned from DOJ. 327 The Servicer shall facilitate the reconciliation of accounts between DOJ and DMCS.

2.6

Payments

FSA receives payments from borrowers on their debts via a variety of repayment options including check, electronic (web), electronic debit account and credit card. FSA uses the Treasury lockbox contractor to process most payments. Credit Card and direct debit transactions are processed through Pay.gov, which is the Treasury on-line payment processing website. Both the Lockbox and Pay.gov send payment information to the DMCS so borrower accounts can be updated.

32

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall receive payment notifications via any Treasury payment 328 method, including but not limited to: personal checks, credit card, Speedpay, pay.gov, direct debit, Western Union QuickCollect and IPAC. The Servicer shall require entities making payments on debts (borrowers, 329 lenders, etc.) to direct payments to the Treasury lockbox. 330 The Servicer shall process a payment file from Treasury the same day it is received, unless directed otherwise by Federal Student Aid.

The Servicer shall obtain daily deposit information from Treasury's 331 Collections Information Repository (CIR) to support accounting processes and controls, such as daily and monthly reconciliations. 332 333 334 The Servicer shall maintain proper controls over payment posting and accounting activities and perform daily and monthly reconciliations. The Servicer shall receive payment exception documentation from Treasury lockbox and process as necessary. The Servicer shall apply financial transactions to a debt and/or account, based on the provided effective date.

The Servicer shall assess borrower fees, if directed to do so by Federal 335 Student Aid. This includes, but is not limited to: collection costs, TOP fees, DOJ fees, bounced payment penalties, and administrative fees. The Servicer shall apply payments to debts first to outstanding fees, then to 336 interest, and then to principal if/when interest is satisfied or in accordance with other Federal Student Aid business rules. When applying regular payments to an account, the Servicer shall apply the 337 payment to the debts based on the weighted average of the outstanding balance of the debts. 338 The Servicer shall only apply a directed payment to the applicable debt(s). The Servicer shall systematically calculate the maximum collection fee on accounts/debts referred to PCAs, based on the percentage provided by 339 Federal Student Aid (currently 24.34% of the interest and principal owed) and based on any collection cost cap to which the borrower's debts are subject. The Servicer shall apply the percentage provided by Federal Student Aid (currently 19.58%) to each voluntary or AWG payment received to collection fees, if according to FSA business rules a commission is due a collection agency based on the effective date of the payment. (For 340 example, no collection costs on payments with an effective date within the first few days after transfer to a collection agency as no commission is due. Similarly, collection costs would be assessed on payments received within a few days after return from a collection agency as commission would be owed a collection agency on those payments.) When posting a payment, the Servicer must include the type of payment (voluntary, AWG, TOP, DOJ, etc.), the effective date of the payment, the 341 posting date of the payment, the type of payment (e.g., credit card, check, etc.), and the instrument number. When posting a bounce, charge-back or reversal of a payment, the Servicer must include a definitive transaction level link between the two transactions 342 (e.g., if the payment has a unique transaction number, that number should be displayed somewhere for the reversal).

33

Number

Requirement The Servicer shall monitor voluntary repayment agreements and report the number of payments made toward: Reinstatement of Title IV eligibility, National Direct Student Loan (NDSL)-Perkins rehabilitation, FFEL and Direct rehabilitation, and consolidation. The Servicer shall monitor that the borrower is in compliance with repayment agreements established in order to forestall forced collections (AWG, TOP/Federal Salary Offset) and resume the forced collection process if the borrower falls out of compliance, within timeframes unique to each forced collections program. The Servicer shall support direct debit payments (aka electronic debits or automatic withdrawals), including generating and processing DDP applications and interfacing with Treasury for debit requests and payment files. The Servicer shall update the debt and account balance and generate a notification to the borrower once the debt is satisfied. The Servicer shall maintain a suspense (aka recycle or unapplied) file of any payment/payment return transactions that cannot be posted to a borrower account. The Servicer shall provide an efficient means for collection agency personnel and FSA users to search the suspense file for missing payments.

343

344

345

346 347 348

The Servicer shall perform due diligence to research payments held in suspense for the purpose of resolving the unposted items including: posting 349 payment to appropriate borrower account; refunding; or escheatment to Treasury. The Servicer shall provide a user the ability to view how a payment was 350 applied to an account (e.g., a breakdown of the payment reflecting how much was applied to fees, interest, and principal on each debt).

2.7

Private Collection Agencies

This subsection provides a brief summary of the Private Collection Agency (PCA) referrals and invoicing process and presents the functional requirements for the DMCS to support PCA referrals and invoicing. In general, while a PCA holds an account, the Servicer will provide limited customer service support to the borrower and will refer the borrower to the PCA for most repayment options and certain disputes. Each PCA maintains its own collections system and sends its own letters to the borrower. The DMCS, however, remains the system of record for the debt, so the DMCS and PCAs routinely exchange electronic updates of demographic, financial and servicing data so that the respective systems are in sync. 2.7.1 PCA Referrals

Upon assignment of a debt the DMCS sends the borrower an assignment notification indicating the option to either enter repayment or dispute the debt. At this point, the Servicer is responsible for responding to any dispute or negotiating a reasonable and affordable repayment agreement with the borrower. If the borrower does neither within a time period specified by FSA (currently 65 days), the borrower becomes eligible for referral to a PCA.

34

The Servicer transfers accounts to PCAs electronically and sends a transfer notification to the borrower. The PCA begins collection activities. At any time, the borrower can initiate a dispute to FSA, the Servicer and/or to the PCA about a debt. In general, the PCA will respond to disputes involving death, disability and incarceration. The Servicer will respond to other types of disputes, and there are circumstances wherein the Servicer will respond to any type of dispute even if the account is held by a PCA. If a borrower does not dispute collection activities, the borrower can enter into a voluntary repayment agreement with the PCA. If the borrower decides to enter into a repayment agreement, the PCA sends agreement data to the DMCS. The DMCS performs automated edit checks. If the PCA is unable to establish voluntary repayment, the PCA may pursue Administrative Wage Garnishment (AWG) or prepare a litigation referral package for FSA review. In the AWG process, the PCA provides the first review of a request for hearing (RFH) before referring that RFH to the Servicer for construction of a draft response. If the PCA is unable to collect on the debt or decides not to pursue forced collection methods, FSA may recall the account or the PCA may return the account for in-house collections. During any interval in which an account is not held by a PCA, the Servicer is responsible for responding to all disputes and negotiating all repayment agreements with the borrower. Number 351 352 353 354 355 356 357 358 359 360 361 362 363 364 365 366 367 368 369 Requirement The Servicer shall electronically refer borrower's account to a PCA to pursue collection based on Federal Student Aid criteria. The Servicer shall refer accounts to PCAs according to ratios and selection criteria established by FSA. The Servicer shall be able to protect certain accounts from PCA placement (e.g., accounts in bankruptcy, assigned to DOJ, incarcerated, under discharge review, hardship). The Servicer shall maintain borrower account level history of PCA transfers. The Servicer shall periodically provide the following account updates to the PCAs on accounts placed with those PCAs: Daily Financial Transactions Account Re-assignment Account Recall Account Transfers Account Adjustment Address Extract Monthly Inventory The Servicer shall periodically receive the following account updates from the PCAs on accounts placed with those PCAs: Account Return Mailed Letters Account Billing Account Update Returned Letters The Servicer shall process all PCA files within 5 business days of receipt. The Servicer should note that large Account Return files will be submitted by all of the PCAs at the end of each quarter, and the Servicer must be capable of processing these in a timely fashion.

35

Number 370 371 372 373 374 375

Requirement The Servicer shall recall accounts en masse from PCAs or additional servicers based on the Department of Education business rules. The Servicer shall allow users to recall individual accounts from a PCA, and uniquely capture and store a variety of recall reasons (e.g., discharge approved, incarcerated, etc.). The Servicer shall allow the PCA to return an account based on FSA business rules and edits. The Servicer shall receive a borrower's complaint regarding PCA collection activities, and forward to FSA for resolution. The Servicer shall receive complaints via correspondence, telephone or the borrower web portal. The Servicer shall provide the ability to transfer accounts to the same PCA if it is recalled. Upon receipt of a new debt, the Servicer shall automatically and immediately transfer that debt to the PCA servicing the other DMCS debts.

2.7.2

PCA Invoicing

PCAs are paid commissions and administrative fees for servicing debts referred to them. The DMCS will calculate, track and display the money owed to PCAs and generate a monthly invoice voucher and allow FSA to easily enter adjustments to the invoices. Number 376 377 378 379 380 381 382 Requirement The Servicer shall electronically generate, adjust, and calculate PCA commissions and administrative fees if a payment is received. The Servicer shall apply the correct commission rate/admin fee to transactions and adjustments based on transaction effective date. The logic to determine if a payment is "commissionable" shall be applied at the time of payment posting, and reflected on the system. The Servicer shall automatically adjust commissions for payments that are refunded in part or in whole, reversed, or bounced. The Servicer shall automatically adjust commissions for non-standard compromises entered by the PCA. The Servicer shall calculate and track the commission adjustments for PCAs.

The Servicer shall allow for FSA to quickly and easily enter transaction level adjustments, including: 383 a. give or remove commission credit, in whole or in part, for a payment 384 b. give or remove an admin resolution or litigation preparation fee 385 c. reduce the commission for an unapproved or non-standard compromise The Servicer shall provide the means to search transactions earning a commission by borrower number, PCA number, adjustment type, month, 386 etc. to determine what payments/adjustments/fees have been entered, approved, rejected or processed, and shall indicate the invoice month and year for each processed adjustment.

36

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall provide system controls to enforce separation of adjustment entry and adjustment approval. The Servicer shall record and 387 display the user id of the person entering and the person approving all adjustments. For any rejected adjustments, the Servicer shall provide a field for a reason the adjustment was rejected. 388 The Servicer shall provide the means to export approved, rejected or pending (unreviewed) adjustments to excel or other standard file format.

The Servicer shall generate a standardized PCA invoice voucher based on payments, adjustments, refund transactions, and any administrative or 389 miscellaneous fees. The Servicer shall make the voucher easily retrievable in a standard electronic format (e.g., PDF) by the PCA. 390 The Servicer shall allow for current invoices to be adjusted until such time as they are correct and approved by FSA.

The Servicer shall allow FSA to quickly and easily make adjustments to all commission related variables (e.g. commission rates, admin fees, required payment percentages, required letter codes, mentor relationships, bonus 391 periods and percentages, etc.) The Servicer shall maintain a record of all changes to commissions, fees, required payment percentages, bonus relationships, etc. Additionally, allow approved FSA users to make changes to PCA demographics, such as PCA address, invoice contact, etc. The Servicer shall identify an account's eligibility for consolidation and 392 rehabilitation commission or fee. 393 394 395 The Servicer shall allow Federal Student Aid to quickly and easily make adjustments to all commission variables. (e.g., commission, fee). The Servicer shall provide an efficient means of identifying and making mass commission fee adjustments. The Servicer shall provide an efficient means of making miscellaneous adjustments (adjustments not necessarily tied to a particular borrower) .

The Servicer shall allow for download into multiple standard formats and 396 re-printing of past vouchers and commission adjustment memoranda. FSA users shall have the option to select by agency or select "all" for any month. The Servicer shall generate a report for how each agency's total 397 reimbursement should be apportioned among the various debt/grant programs. The Servicer shall calculate each PCA's aggregate commission incentive bonus and mentor bonus amount on each monthly invoice. There may be 398 multiple bonus types (long term and quarterly) and those bonus amounts may be calculated on different collection types. The Servicer shall allow for Federal Student Aid review/approval of PCA recommendations for the following: death discharge determinations, 399 discretionary compromises, incarceration suspensions, preliminary disability discharges.

37

2.8

Portfolio Management

The DMCS Servicer will be responsible for many aspects of managing the DMCS portfolio, including accruing interest each month, closing small balances, performing necessary account adjustments, making annual interest rate changes, archiving closed accounts and making demographic changes. The DMCS will have the capability of suspending collection action for a user-designated period of time in cases of hardship, incarceration, military service, natural disaster or other known periods of uncollectibility. The DMCS will efficiently write off debts as uncollectible according to criteria provided by FSA. The DMCS will handle debts with co-makers. Number Requirement

The Servicer must be able to archive accounts, based on Federal Student 400 Aid's criteria, in a manner that will allow the accounts to be restored to the database when requested no later than the day following the request. The Servicer shall close appropriate debts and indicate the applicable 401 reasons (e.g., paid in full, rehabilitation, consolidation, close school discharge, etc.). 402 403 404 405 406 407 408 409 The Servicer will identify and correct any NDSL-Perkins loans in the DMCS portfolio that are defaulted but that lack a default date. The Servicer shall perform all account maintenance actions necessary to properly service the account, including but not limited to: a. Balance adjustments b. Write-offs/debt closures c. Payment reapplications d. Refund calculations f. Demographic updates The Servicer shall close recalled debts and transfer the debts and the associated transaction history to the recalling entity for servicing.

The Servicer shall be able to apply past payments, adjustments, reversals, refunds, and any other financial transactions, based on their effective date, 410 to an account and/or to specific debts, and systematically re-calculate the current outstanding balance. The Servicer shall accommodate the following demographic changes: changing the Social Security Number (SSN) associated with an account, 411 merging two existing accounts under a single SSN (e.g. where borrowers have some debts in the portfolio under an incorrect SSN and others under their correct SSN); moving a debt from one account to another. The Servicer shall be responsible for assigning pseudo SSNs as needed, and for tracking the range of available pseudos available for usage. The 412 Servicer shall coordinate this effort with FSA to ensure there is no overlap in the ranges being used by various offices. The Servicer shall automatically write-up small borrower-level credit 413 balances to zero, according to FSA guidelines (currently balances greater than -$5.00). The Servicer shall automatically write-off as paid in full small borrower414 level balances, according to FSA guidelines (currently balances less than $25.00).

38

Number 415 416

Requirement The Servicer shall accurately and timely update the interest rate on variable rate loans. The Servicer shall store and display the historical interest rates applicable to a loan, and the dates on which rates were changed.

The Servicer shall accommodate debts with co-makers and endorsers and 417 allow for collection action on both the primary borrower and the co-maker or endorser to proceed simultaneously and separately. 418 419 420 The Servicer shall have the ability to write off accounts based on Department of Education business rules. The Servicer shall be able to suspend collections for a variable amount of time due to hardship. The Servicer shall automatically send a hardship renewal package 45 days before a borrower's hardship suspension expires.

The Servicer shall automatically resume collection action if the borrower 421 does not return an acceptable hardship package prior to the suspension end date. If a timely hardship renewal package is received, the Servicer shall 422 continue the hardship suspension until FSA makes a hardship renewal determination. The Servicer shall be able to suspend collections for a variable amount of time (e.g., military, incarceration, bankruptcy etc.) and return the suspended 423 account to active collections once the established suspension period has ended and notify the borrower that suspension has ended.

2.9

Refunds

The Servicer will calculate refunds for FSA approval in a variety of circumstances, including but not necessarily limited to: overpayments, discharges, bankruptcies and hardships. The Servicer will take care to issue refunds only to recently verified addresses and will notify borrowers of overpayments in order to prompt address verification. Number 424 425 426 427 428 Requirement The Servicer shall promptly manage credit balance accounts, and other payments and accounts requiring a refund. The Servicer shall process refunds of payments (individually or en masse) to borrowers (borrower overpayments), lenders (such as consolidation overpayments), etc. The Servicer shall process refund requests from borrowers. The Servicer shall calculate refund amounts. The Servicer shall ensure that refunds to borrowers are issued only to recently-verified addresses. The Servicer shall ensure that all processed refunds shall contain accurate name (payee) and address information and shall include data to allow for identification of why the refund is being sent. This includes providing borrower identification information if the payee is not the borrower.

429

39

Number

Requirement The Servicer shall allow for Federal Student Aid review and approval of refunds before they are made. FSA shall be able to select refund attributes (such as dollar value) and create worklists that can be sampled and approved as a batch. The Servicer shall be able to refund multiple payments received from the same borrower with a single check. The Servicer shall be able to process refunds in amounts not directly matched to payment(s) on the system. The Servicer shall allow for the recording and reporting of all refunds processed. The Servicer shall process refunds via any form of Treasury payment. The Servicer shall be able to efficiently process refunds of payments made to prior loan holders in the event of loan discharge. The Servicer shall receive and process Treasury Confirmation Reports. The Servicer shall request Federal Student Aid to cancel refunds, when appropriate. The Servicer shall receive and process Treasury Cancellation Reports. The Servicer shall perform due diligence on canceled refunds, on issuance of validated refunds, and will follow Treasury guidelines for escheatment. The Servicer shall pass Treasury cancellation data to the Financial Management System (FMS) using the FMS standard file format.

430

431 432 433 434 435 436 437 438 439 440

3.0 3.1

Technical Requirements Records Management

The DMCS will be responsible for managing records according to Federal regulations and Federal Student Aid business rules and guidelines. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall comply with 44 U.S.C chapters 21, 29, 31 and 33; 441 Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552); Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a); 36 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1222 and Part 1228. The Servicer shall treat all deliverables under the contract as the property of the U.S. Government for which the Government Agency shall have 442 unlimited rights to use, dispose of, or disclose such data contained therein as it determines to be in the public interest. The Servicer shall not create or maintain any records that are not 443 specifically tied to or authorized by the contract using Government IT equipment and/or Government records. The Servicer shall not retain, use, sell, or disseminate copies of any 444 deliverable that contains information covered by the Privacy Act of 1974 or that which is generally protected by the Freedom of Information Act.

40

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall not create or maintain any records containing any 445 Government Agency records that are not specifically tied to or authorized by the contract. 446 The Servicer shall indicate their understanding that the Government Agency owns the rights to all data/records produced as part of this contract.

The Servicer shall indicate their understanding that the Government Agency owns the rights to all electronic information (electronic data, electronic information systems, electronic databases, etc.) and all 447 supporting documentation created as part of this contract. Contractor must deliver sufficient technical documentation with all data deliverables to permit the agency to use the data. The Servicer shall comply with Federal and Department of Education records management policies, including those policies associated with the safeguarding of records covered by the Privacy Act of 1974. These policies 448 include the preservation of all records created or received regardless of format [paper, electronic, etc.] or mode of transmission [e-mail, fax, etc.] or state of completion [draft, final, etc.]. The Servicer shall obtain written consent of the Contracting Officer prior to the disposition of documents. The Agency and its contractors are responsible for preventing the alienation or unauthorized destruction of records, including all forms of mutilation. Willful and unlawful destruction, 449 damage or alienation of Federal records is subject to the fines and penalties imposed by 18 U.S.C. 2701. Records may not be removed from the legal custody of the Agency or destroyed without regard to the provisions of the agency records schedules. The Servicer shall obtain the Contracting Officer's approval prior to engaging in any contractual relationship (sub-contractor) in support of this contract requiring the disclosure of information, documentary material 450 and/or records generated under, or relating to, this contract. The Contractor (and any sub-contractor) is required to abide by Government and Agency guidance for protecting sensitive and proprietary information. The Servicer shall adhere to 36 CFR XII, Subchapter B ­ Records 451 Management as posted by NARA, regarding records management responsibilities of contractors. 452 453 454 The Servicer shall adhere to 36 CFR Part 1228, Subpart K ­ Facility standards for records storage facilities. The Servicer shall adhere to 36 CFR Part 1228, Appendix A - Minimum security standards. The Servicer shall adhere to 36 CFR Part 1228, Appendix B - Alternative certified fire-safety detection and suppression system(s).

41

3.2

Security

This subsection presents the security requirements for all systems, data, documents and facilities maintained by the DMCS Servicer. The scope of these requirements includes, but is not limited to:           Access control; Contingency planning and recovery; Documentation; Incident response; Monitoring and detection; Risk management; Secure facilities; Security configuration; Security personnel; and Telecommunications

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall comply with all federal regulations regarding: authorizing, establishing, activating, modifying, reviewing, reporting, 455 disabling, and removing accounts for users and Information Technology (IT) personnel involved in operations, maintenance, and security administration. The Servicer shall comply with federal provisions for the appropriate 456 divisions of responsibility and separates duties as needed to eliminate conflicts of interest in the responsibilities and duties of individuals. The Servicer shall comply with all Federal Statutes, Standards and Guidelines for Security such as: Federal Information Security Act (FISMA) (2002), Computer Security Act (1987), Privacy Act (1974), FIPS Pub 199, FIPS Pub 200, FIPS Pub 140-2, NIST SP 800-34, NIST SP 800-18, NIST 457 SP 800-30, NIST SP 800-37, NIST Pub 800-47, NIST SP 800-50, NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-137, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, OMB Circular A-123 and Department of Education and Federal Student Aid policies. The Servicer shall comply with 100% of the applicable NIST 800-53 458 security controls in accordance with FIPS 199 category for a moderate impact level system. 459 Prior to implementation, the Servicer shall support and must pass a NIST SP 800-53 Controls assessment conducted by FSA.

Immediately following successful completion of a security authorization, 460 the Servicer shall implement continuous monitoring in accordance with NIST SP 800-137 capable of satisfying an ongoing security authorization. 461 All internet traffic will be routed to the VDC through its Einstein device before coming into the DMCS.

42

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall display a system use notification message before 462 granting system access to potential users in accordance with federal requirements. The Servicer shall obtain Federal Student Aid approval for all access to 463 Federal Student Aid data and all contractor access that can affect any component within the system's boundary. 464 Servicer shall require two factor authentication to access DMCS. 465 The Servicer shall enforce session locks and terminations for periods of user inactivity.

466 The Servicer shall comply with federal regulations regarding remote access. 467 468 469 470 471 472 473 474 The Servicer shall comply with federal regulations regarding wireless access. The Servicer shall comply with federal regulation regarding access controls for portable and mobile devices. The Servicer shall send application access reports quarterly to Federal Student Aid for certification of access. The Servicer shall comply with federal regulation regarding frequency of information system backups. The Servicer shall develop a contingency plan and submit it for review and approval by designated officials. The Servicer shall review and update as appropriate their contingency / disaster recovery/ continuity of operations plans. The Servicer shall coordinate the contingency plan with other related plans i.e. Continuity of Operations, Business Continuity, etc. The Servicer's disaster recovery site(s) shall be geographically separated from the production site(s). The Servicer shall perform data sanitation at the recovery site after testing. (See National Institute of Standards and Technology [NIST] SP 800-88). The Servicer shall comply with federal regulations regarding personnel contingency training.

475

476

477 The Servicer shall identify primary and alternate telecommunications sites. 478 479 The Servicer shall provide and apply mechanisms and procedures for system and data recovery and reconstitution. The Servicer shall coordinate all configuration management plans with Federal Student Aid and Department of Education policies.

The Servicer shall establish, document and implement secure baseline 480 configurations and establish policy, procedures, guidelines, accountability for modification of baseline configurations. 481 The Servicer shall conduct a periodic review of the configuration management plan not less than annually.

482 The Servicer shall monitor compliance for configuration settings.

43

Number 483 484

Requirement The Servicer shall conduct a periodic review of the System Security Plan (SSP) and updated as needed, but no less than annually.

The Servicer shall conduct a periodic review of system boundary document and update as needed, but no less than annually. The Servicer shall remediate Plans of Actions and Milestones maintained in 485 Federal Student Aid's Operational Vulnerability Management Solution. The Servicer shall develop and update as required a Privacy Impact 486 Assessment (PIA) in accordance with federal regulations. The Servicer shall maintain an incident response plan that correlates to the Department of Education plan. The Servicer shall take appropriate actions for security alerts and warnings 488 provided by the Department of Education or through other sources (e.g. DHS). Contractor will report status of their actions as requested. 487 In the event of a security incident, the Servicer shall preserve evidence and 489 allow external forensic analysis either on-site or through shipment of components. 490 The Servicer shall employ a security control monitoring process consistent with NIST SP 800-37 and NIST SP 800-53.

The Servicer shall determine what "auditable" events are in conjunction 491 with NIST guidance and create policies, procedures, guidelines to ensure compliance. The Servicer shall perform routine network, database, and web applications 492 scans on a quarterly basis. The scan results are analyzed and vulnerabilities identified. The Servicer shall enter security vulnerabilities identified thru scan into an OVMS injection template without false positives or duplicate findings. The Servicer shall document, report, and train personnel on response to 494 suspicious activity. 493 495 496 The Servicer shall comply with federal requirements regarding audit storage. The Servicer shall provide appropriate responses to audit processing failures in accordance with federal regulations.

497 The Servicer shall time stamp all audited events. The Servicer shall protect audit information in accordance with federal requirements. The Servicer shall implement security remediation to correct security 499 deficiencies and appropriate evidence must be provided to close actions. The Servicer shall capture all identified vulnerabilities and security 500 weaknesses and corrective actions tracked through Federal Student Aids OVMS. The Servicer shall allow Federal Student Aid to test controls through independent scanning within the boundaries of the Federal Student Aid 501 system and by other means like interviews, observations, and to document reviews. 498

44

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall make themselves and the site available for security audits and control assessments. This includes interviews with key security 502 staff, data gathering and submissions, scanning support, and escort activities. The Servicer shall comply with NIST 800-53 for physical and 503 environmental controls. 504 The Servicer shall log and escort visitors at all times. 505 The Servicer shall keep data center access control lists current. 506 507 Alternate data center worksites shall be required to have the same protections as the primary data center site.

The Servicer shall keep security patches current and appropriately tested prior to moving into production. The Servicer shall meet Federal Student Aid's password standards. 508 (Attached: Federal Student Aid's Password Parameters Policy & Procedures). The Servicer shall document and follow change control management 509 procedures. 510 The Servicer shall obtain Federal Student Aid approval of system changes prior to production implementation.

The Servicer shall maintain server and device security configurations in 511 accordance with NIST security configuration standards (See: http://checklists.nist.gov/). 512 The Servicer shall track everyone who has a user ID to the DMCS system, including when they sign security documents, take annual Security Training and other security data elements. The Servicer shall complete personnel background screening requirements all personnel are required to complete a federal background clearance based on their position risk level. The Servicer shall complete personnel background screening requirements Non-U.S. Citizen may be assigned to a High Risk IT (6C) level position, provided: he/she is a Lawful Permanent Resident of the United States and has resided continuously in the United States for a minimum of three (3) years. Non-U.S. Citizens living outside of the United States cannot have the capability to access Federal Student Aid systems or data. The Servicer shall require all personnel to successfully complete initial security awareness training within two weeks of employment and annual refresher training. The training can be completed on line using ED's security training program or any other training program approved by ED. The Servicer shall complete annual specialized training that is required according to job function. The Servicer shall maintain system access authorizations and signed rules of behavior in either hard or soft copy.

513

514

515

516 517

The Servicer shall encrypt data transfers of PII or other sensitive 518 information using NIST certified encryption methods (See NIST standard, Federal Information Processing Standards [FIPS] 140-2).

45

Number

Requirement

The Servicers shall document all interconnections and have an 519 Interconnection Security Agreement and a Trading Partners Agreement in place. (See NIST SP 800-47.) 520 The Servicer shall not use wireless communication containing Federal Student Aid information within the data center.

The Servicer shall create a project plan that they will follow to develop a 521 NIST SP 800-18 compliant System Security Plan created in the Department of Education format. The Servicer shall bundle the requested security information as attachments to a discussion document that provides a discussion for each requirement and artifact submitted. The cover page for this package will include a self522 certification document identifying the system's security posture to include its overall security risk. The cover page will be signed by the Servicer's senior security official and program manager attesting that the information within the package is accurate. The Servicer shall provide previous security information from the past three years to include a discussion of security incidents; and audits like Statement 523 of Auditing Standards (SAS) 70s, Sarbanes Oxley reviews, independent security assessments, risk assessments, and/or internal reviews along with the applicable remediation plans. The Servicer shall provide existing security documentation like its security 524 organizational structure, its system's boundary, existing security policy, procedures, and plans.

46

4.0 Interface Requirements The DMCS must exchange data with a large number of other systems, both internal (operated by FSA or an FSA contractor) and external. What follows is a diagram depicting the relationship between DMCS and its trading partners.

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall use Connect Direct, the Student Aid Internet Gateway 525 (SAIG) or FPASS (for Treasury FMS) to exchange files with the following external organizations including but not limited to: 526 527 528 529 530 531 532 533 534 535 a. DOJ b. ECMC c. Credit bureaus d. IRS e. HHS f. SSA g. Treasury h. US Bankruptcy Court (Banko) i. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) j. Guarantors

47

Number 536 537 538 539 540 541 542 543 544 545 546 547 548 549 550 551 552 553 554

Requirement k. Private Collection Agencies l. Lenders m. Servicers n. Schools o.Pay.gov p. FRB Lockbox (fka BoA) q. TRS/CIR r. USPS s. ABR (current vendor's fulfillment vendor) The Servicer shall use Connect:Direct or SAIG to interface with Federal Student Aid internal systems including but not limited to:

a. CPS b. Perkins servicing c. Direct Loan Consolidation System (DLCS) d. FMS e. TPD f. ED's Federal Servicers g. COD h. NSLDS i. PEPS The Servicer shall establish an interface for the receipt and processing of 555 Inter-Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) systems payments. The Servicer shall provide a web portal for DMCS access to FSA 556 employees and other users designated by FSA, including but not limited to: PCAs, ECMC, Federal Servicers and Hearing Officials. 557 558 559 560 561 562 563 564 565 566 The Servicer shall provide designated web portals pertinent to the limited needs of the following: a. Borrowers b. Employers c. Schools d. Guarantors e. Department of Justice (DOJ) The Servicer shall allow Federal Student Aid to view and access files from internal or external sources via the web portal user interface. The Servicer shall accurately report all debt information and statuses on a monthly basis to national credit bureaus using the Metro 2 format. The Servicer shall report to NSLDS all changes for open and recently closed debts on a weekly basis. The Servicer shall identify when key borrower indicators have changed and report on both the old data and the new data to NSLDS.

The Servicer shall use the NSLDS required format to perform Extract 567 Validation and create an electronic Submittal file on a weekly basis for data on DMCS debts.

48

Number 568

Requirement The Servicer shall retrieve, process, and correct the Load Process Error file from NSLDS for each submittal.

The Servicer shall work with other data providers, including guarantors, the Direct Loan Program, Perkins schools, other Servicers, etc. to resolve 569 identifier conflicts including assigning pseudo SSNs where appropriate (See NSLDS Data Provider Instructions [DPI]). 570 571 The Servicer shall utilize NSLDS on-line updating functionality to resolve customer service issues. The Servicer shall accept a file from NSLDS in order to update debt records with missing data elements.

572 The Servicer shall report a full submittal file upon NSLDS request. The Servicer shall provide additional data elements to NSLDS. These 573 elements include, but are not limited to: delinquency data, discharge data, forgiveness data, and changes in borrower eligibility. The Servicer shall correct missing or invalid OPE IDs for National Direct, National Defense and Perkins loans, and for some of the grant overpayment 574 debts in the DMCS portfolio, to facilitate accurate NSLDS reporting of these debts. The Servicer shall conduct a comprehensive review of NSLDS reporting 575 and resolve all outstanding status discrepancies and reporting omissions. The Servicer shall process and validate payment refunds using the FMS 576 standard file format. 577 578 The Servicer shall use the FMS standard file format for Treasury cancellation data. The Servicer shall conform to the data edits and data layouts as described by the FMS interface documentation.

The Servicer shall receive 6 FMS reporting files (GL and detail Transfers) from FMS via SAIG using 3 message classes; these files may be used to 579 support Servicers' reconciliations. These files are provided by FMS as a service to all Servicers to avoid processing delays when running via Discoverer queries in FMS.

49

5.0 Financial Requirements This section presents the financial requirements for the DMCS Servicer. The financial requirements detail the high-level requirements for reporting of financial data and/or transactions to internal and external entities for the purpose of tracking and managing the defaulted debt portfolio and for balancing and reconciliation purposes. 5.1 Accounting

This subsection presents the high-level accounting requirements for the DMCS. Number 580 Requirement The Servicer shall send daily summary accounting files to FMS within the schedule established by FMS to guaranty same day posting.

The Servicer shall send a month-end summary accounting file containing the monthly interest accrual and other applicable transactions to FMS 581 within the prescribed deadline to ensure the file posts in FMS posted in the closing accounting period. 582 The Servicer shall conduct accountancy, ensuring that transactions of the Servicer's subsidiary ledger are accurately posted to FMS.

The Servicer shall manage the accounting transaction processing between 583 the subsidiary ledger and the general ledger; resolving all error file transactions within prescribed deadlines. The Servicer shall reconcile all general ledger accounts (activity & balances) to the FSA general ledger (FMS). The Servicer will deliver complete & accurate monthly reconciliation packages to FSA. Monthly reconciliation packages shall be due 6 working days after FSA-FMS closes (Note: FMS closes on the 2nd work day of each month. Each reconciliation 584 utilizes FSA-FMS Monthly general ledger data.) Monthly reconciliation packages must meet standards established by FSA. Adherence to all standards/requirements will determine if the monthly reconciliation package is complete, accurate and accepted by FSA. The Servicer shall correct all differences between the subsidiary ledger balances and the FMS general ledger within the subsequent accounting period; resulting in no repeating reconciling differences. Ledger reconciliation financial deliverables, which include but aren't limited to the 585 ledger "Portfolio" reconciliation and the monthly bank statement reconciliation shall be due 6 working days after FSA-FMS closes (Note: FMS closes on the 2nd work day of each month. Each reconciliation utilizes FSA-FMS Monthly general ledger data.).

50

5.2

Financial Reporting

Financial reporting of defaulted debts is critical for managing FSA's debt portfolio. To assist with tracking and monitoring the debt portfolio, FSA needs a DMCS Servicer with a robust financial reporting capability along with query capability for users. Number 586 Requirement

The Servicer shall provide a Detailed Trial Balance by Transaction Type in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall provide all requested Reconciliation Reports in the 587 format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall maintain a crosswalk to Federal Student Aid's general ledger including transactional and account crosswalks. This crosswalk 588 shall be synchronized with Federal Student Aid's Financial Management System through a weekly/as needed transactional/account mapping interface. The Servicer shall provide a Report of Loans/Debts Assigned by Assignor 589 (lender, guarantor, servicer, DLSS, etc.) in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall provide a report summarizing Current Month, Current Quarter, and Year to Date for each Loan/Debt Type, the number of loans 590 and the dollar amount of loans in the format and delivery method specified by FSA. The Servicer shall provide a report for Loans/Debts Transferred To and 591 From the Servicer to other Federal Student Aid Servicers &/or Systems in the format and delivery method specified by FSA. The Servicer shall provide a System Balancing Report of daily, weekly and monthly activity sent and received with each interface at the batch level. 592 The report will be provided in the format and delivery method specified by FSA. The Servicer shall provide a Financial Transactions Reconciliation Report of all daily, weekly, and monthly transactions posted on the servicing 593 system for each interfacing partner in the format and delivery method specified by FSA. The Servicer shall provide monthly Work in Process Reports of activity received and accepted into the servicing system, but not posted to borrower 594 accounts for each interfacing partner in the format & delivery method specified by FSA. 595 596 The Servicer shall provide a Summary Trial Balance by Fund in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid.

The Servicer shall provide an Unapplied Cash Recycle report in the format and delivery method specified by FSA. a. The Servicer shall provide Ad-Hoc reporting query capability in the servicing system & subledger directly to Department personnel and their 597 designees. These personnel will have the ability to save custom queries/reports.

51

Number 598 599 600

Requirement The Subledger will be updated daily with all servicing system activity from the prior day, including non-borrower transactions. d. Servicer must provide training satisfactory to Federal Student Aid on the Ad-hoc reporting query tool.

Servicer must provide Ad-Hoc reporting Help Desk operation that will be fully staffed during standard business hours (8am ­ 5pm EST). Ad hoc reporting must be available at detail and summary levels. Detail 601 levels would include all available loan level data fields. Summary level could be any combination of detail or automated accounting feed fields. g. Servicing Trial Balance by Loan Program ­ using Federal Student Aid/FMS transactional account mapping, must be capable of producing daily, weekly, ad hoc, and monthly trial balances at a summary and detailed 602 transactional level to facilitate reconciliations. If multiple databases are employed each database will be reported individually as well as on a consolidated basis. Federal Student Aid personnel must have the ability to access and run these reports. h. Standard functionality will enable reports/queries/trial balances on prior 603 period activity to be created by Federal Student Aid users for up to 13 months after the month-end. i. Daily reconciliation of financial transaction activity and portfolio loads 604 from the Servicing system to the Subledger will be completed and all differences reported/resolved within 24 hours. j. Monthly reconciliations between the Servicing system database and the Subledger for balances & activity for all funds/loan-debt programs to be 605 provided to Federal Student Aid. Reconciliation to be completed at detailed transaction level. All Reconciliation requirements would apply. The Contractor shall provide a report, by program, of the outstanding 606 number of debts and principal and interest amounts, on a monthly basis. The Contractor shall provide a report, by program, of the new debts 607 (number, and principal and interest amounts) on a monthly basis. This report should be provided in both a period-to-date and year-to-date format. The Contractor shall provide a report, by program, of the number, and amount, of collections on principal and interest/fees, by source (e.g., 608 Contractors, TOP, etc.). This report should be provided in both a period-todate and year-to-date format. The Contractor shall provide a report, by program and reason code, detailing the number and amount (principal and interest/fees) for write-offs 609 reinstated for collection. This report should be provided in both a periodto-date and year-to-date format. The Contractor shall provide a report, by reason code and program, detailing the number and amount (principal and interest/fees) for write offs 610 and compromises. This report should be provided in both a period-to-date and year-to-date format. 611 The Contractor shall provide a report of Debt submitted to Treasury for Offset (also called Treasury Report on Receivables or TROR):

52

Number

Requirement

1. Report debts (numbers of loans and dollars) by loan program (e.g., Direct 612 Loan, Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education [TEACH], FFEL unassigned, FFEL at DMCS, each new FFEL program). 2. Report the number of loans and the current portfolio balance of all debt 613 submitted to Treasury for offset. Report principal balances, interest balance, fee balance, and total balance in separate columns. 3. Report collections of Treasury for principal, interest, fees, and total 614 collections. Report collections (numbers of loans and dollars) by loan program (i.e., Direct Loan, FFEL etc.). 615 The report should be generated on a quarter-to-date and a year-to-date basis.

The Servicer shall provide Specific Cash Reports (e.g. Lockbox, automated clearinghouse (ACH) Credits, ACH Debits, Web payments, Credit Cards, 616 etc.). Reports will be provided in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall provide Receivable Aging Reports (by fund, cohort year, 617 loan program type, risk category). Reports will be provided in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall provide other accounting reports as determined by 618 Federal Student Aid. Reports will be provided in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. The Servicer shall provide additional support as needed (e.g., data files, 619 reports, source documents) to substantiate reported activity, balances, deliverables. The Servicer shall provide a Disbursement Date Change (Cohort Year) 620 Report in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid.

5.3

Reconciliation

This subsection presents the reconciliation requirements for the DMCS. Number Requirement

Reconciliations must demonstrate that all required data is transmitted to the Department and that all omissions, duplications of data, and recording 621 errors are detected and corrected timely. All Reconciliations shall be completed in accordance with FSA standards. The Servicer shall be capable of performing Trial balance reconciliations 622 between the DMCS and FMS at any combination of the 15 FMS account segments (includes Credit Reform Code). 623 All loan-debt programs are to be accounted, reported and reconciled individually, unless otherwise instructed by FSA.

53

Number 624

Requirement Loan/Debt Program portfolio balances must be supportable at the loan level.

The Servicer shall identify and define specific transactions, at the 625 transactional identifier level, causing differences in the reconciliation process unless otherwise instructed by Federal Student Aid. 626 The Servicer shall have at a minimum one level of Servicer management review the monthly reconciliation packages.

The Servicer shall provide deliverables (reports, monthly reconciliations, signed lead sheets, all necessary supporting documentation, etc.) to Federal Student Aid in the format and by the delivery method specified by Federal Student Aid. Financial deliverables shall include the ledger "Portfolio" reconciliation and the monthly bank statement reconciliation and shall be due 6 working days after FSA-FMS closes (Note: FMS closes on the 2nd 627 work day of each month. Each reconciliation utilizes FSA-FMS Monthly general ledger data) unless FSA extends the deadline. Monthly reconciliation packages must meet standards established by FSA. Adherence to all standards/requirements will determine if the monthly reconciliation package is complete, accurate and accepted by FSA. Daily reconciliations are not standard deliverables to Federal Student Aid 628 but are required operational processes and subject to internal control testing. Daily reconciliations include tracking and resolution of all work in process activity. The Servicer shall provide for loan/debt/cash exchange and reconciliations 630 between the DMCS and each Federal Student Aid servicing systems. The Servicer shall maintain portfolio integrity upon a re-defaulted loan's re631 entry into the DMCS. 629 The Servicer shall perform monthly reconciliation of transfers of 632 loans/debts/cash between the DMCS and each Federal Student Aid servicing system. The Servicer shall perform daily reconciliation on transfers of 633 loans/debts/cash between the DMCS and each Federal Student Aid servicing system. The Servicer shall reconcile cash activity among the DMCS, FMS, 634 Financial Management Support System (FMSS), Treasury and all other interfaces. The Servicer shall record all incoming check & electronic collections received (deposits) to the cash clearing account (level 1); reverse collection 635 transactions from cash clearing account when posted to borrower accounts (level 2) and perform associated unapplied cash reconciliations in accordance with FSA standards.

54

Number

Requirement The Servicer shall reconcile all cash activity to Treasury daily. This includes, but is not limited to: electronic funds transfer (EFT), checks (SF 1166), IPAC System/SF 1081 payments, internal electronic cash transactions, and any other payments to or deposits with Treasury. This process is to include the reconciliation of the Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT) cash activity to the FMS/FMSS general ledger. The Servicer shall perform daily cash activity reconciliation among the various Treasury receipt channels (i.e. Lockbox, Pay.gov, Remittance Express, and IPAC), DMCS and FMS general ledger. Collection transactions are to be posted to FMS daily. The Servicer shall perform daily reconciliation to ensure Total Cash Received (check and electronic) = (Total Cash Payments Posted to Borrower's accounts + New Recycle File Items). The Servicer shall perform daily reconciliation to ensure Outstanding Recycle File Balance = Beginning Recycle File Balance + New Recycle File Items - Recycle File Items Posted to Borrower Accounts - Refunds of Misdirected Payments - Treasury Escheatment.

636

637

638

639

The Servicer shall perform monthly reconciliation of the Servicer's 640 unapplied cash payment recycle file balance at the DMCS to the FMS Unapplied Collections general ledger account. The Servicer shall perform monthly reconciliation of Treasury bank statement to FMS and Treasury. Completion of monthly bank statement reconciliation Financial deliverables which would include the ledger "Portfolio" reconciliation and the monthly bank statement reconciliation 641 shall be due 6 working days after FSA-FMS closes, unless FSA extends the deadline. (Note: FMS closes on the 2nd work day of each month. Each reconciliation utilizes FSA-FMS Monthly general ledger data). Note that with the implementation of the new credit gateway system there will no longer be a bank statement for BOA. The Servicer shall maintain daily and monthly three-way reconciliation of 642 refund activity among the DMCS, FMS accounts payable system and Treasury. The Servicer shall maintain daily and monthly three-way reconciliation of refund activity among the DMCS, FMS accounts payable system and 643 Treasury. Process overpayment refunds, refund cancellations, and stop payments posted to borrower accounts. The Servicer shall maintain daily and monthly three-way reconciliation of refund activity among the DMCS, FMS accounts payable system and 644 Treasury. Refund transactions processed on the servicing system for misdirected payments. The Servicer shall maintain daily and monthly three-way reconciliation of refund activity among the DMCS, FMS accounts payable system and 645 Treasury. Track and reconcile refund transactions to refund requests (FMS accounts payables) to Treasury confirmations. The Servicer shall maintain daily and monthly three-way reconciliation of refund activity among the DMCS, FMS accounts payable system and 646 Treasury. Track and reconcile refund cancellation transactions processed on servicing to refund reversals in FMS to Treasury cancellations.

55

Number 647

Requirement

The Servicer shall perform daily, weekly and monthly system balancing of all data transmitted to and from the DMCS. The Servicer shall perform daily, weekly and monthly system balancing at 648 the transaction type, transaction count and transaction amount(s) levels. The Servicer shall perform daily, weekly and monthly system balancing to 649 ensure data sent = data received; and data received will = the sum of data accepted and rejected. 650 651 The Servicer shall send rejected data to the originating system for research, resolution and resending.

The Servicer shall complete the application process for postable cash payments and payment returns within 48 hours of collection receipt. 652 The Servicer shall report aging of reconciling items on all reconciliations. 653 The Servicer shall reconcile loan transfers to other servicers. 654 The Servicer shall perform daily a 3-way reconciliation between the loan sender's roster, the DMCS and FMS.

5.4

Transaction Management

This subsection presents the high-level transaction management requirements for the DMCS. Financial transactions must be captured in FSA's general ledger. The DMCS must interact with FMS to provide financial transactions for the DMCS portfolio. Number Requirement

The Servicer shall provide unique transaction reporting for all types of accounting activity as designated by the Summary Accounting file; refund 655 file and other applicable file types. This includes but is not limited to: Collection of Principal, Collection of Interest, Write-offs, etc. 1) The Servicer shall accrue interest on borrower accounts upon the processing of all financial transactions and also at each month end. The Servicer shall ensure that if no financial activity occurs on borrowers accounts within the month, interest shall always be accrued each month end. The Servicer shall validate by providing sample screen prints for 4 borrower accounts; 2 to show interest accrued up through the date financial transaction applied, and 2 to show interest accrued through to month end for accounts with no activity during the month. For Servicers with systems that accrue interest daily: Provide screens of 3 borrower accounts where the 656 dates of the screens shown are one day apart. Then show the calculated difference in the outstanding interest balance for the one day. At least one of the 3 accounts should also have a financial transaction processed on day 2. 2) The Servicer shall ensure that all accrued interest that results in an increase in interest receivable on the Servicer's portfolio is reported to FMS in the INTACC transaction no later than by the end of each month. The Servicer will validate by providing a commitment statement.

56

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall establish a system and processes to correctly record all 657 transactions on their system. This includes non-borrower transactions (summary deposits for example). 658 Servicer transactions shall include all fields designated in the FMS General Ledger (GL) Summary file.

Servicer transactions must pass all FMS edits for posting into the general 659 ledger. Transactional level errors shall be corrected in subsequent file submissions using the corresponding transaction IDs. 660 The Servicer shall ensure all transactions are reversible. All Servicer transactions will be accurately translated (mapped) from the Servicer's subsidiary ledger to Federal Student Aid's general ledger (FMS) using the FMS account mapping structure. Servicers shall have the ability 661 to reclassify data in any open periods using revised FMS account mapping. Servicer will have the ability to post subledger only adjustments when required by FSA (YE closing, Accounting changes). 662 The Servicer shall maintain/display both the posting date and effective date of the transactions on their system.

The Servicer shall link their detailed transactions in the subsidiary ledger to summarized transactions in Federal Student Aid's general ledger thru the use of the transactional identifier field in the FMS summary accounting file. 663 Unique transactional identifiers will tie every detail financial record within the Servicing system to the appropriate summary financial record sent to FMS. The Servicer shall include original Treasury document numbers on all applicable servicing system transactions, in addition to any system created document numbers & document types (including but not limited to: 664 Standard Form (SF)215, SF5515, SF1166, SF1098, and SF1081). The usage of Treasury documents is described on the web site http://fms.treas.gov/index.html. The Servicer shall assign and retain the Credit Reform Code, recording and reporting on all loans related transactions at the CRC level. Federal Credit 665 Reform Act legislation and Treasury guidelines for reporting are described on the web site http://fms.treas.gov/index.html. The Servicer shall allow authorized users to make financial account adjustments (AA) (e.g., AA, write-offs). All of these adjustments will be 666 reported to FMS via the summary accounting file and adhere to all other requirements. 667 The Servicer shall process financial transactions through the FMS Summary Accounting file, including AA transactions.

Servicer shall systematically create and process SF-1081s, in accordance with Federal Student Aid business rules. The SF-1081 document numbers 668 shall follow a numbering scheme agreed to with Federal Student Aid and shall be sequential.

57

Number 669 670

Requirement The Servicer shall post all financial transactions and CRC changes to the General Ledger. The Servicer shall receive email notifications from FMS to provide servicer of receipt and processing status of each file sent to FMS.

The Servicer shall use the FMS GL WIP Transfers In-Out file layout to send 3 separate monthly files to FMS of all Loans Transferred off of their servicing system (Transfers Out), all Loans Transferred onto their servicing 671 system and new disbursements and disbursement adjustments (Transfers In), and all Work in Process (WIP) loans and adjustments that were received but not processed and/or processed but not reported to FMS during the month of reporting. The Servicer shall ensure every financial transaction that can be applied on 672 their servicing system is mapped to a corresponding FMS summary transaction code. The Servicer shall establish processes to correctly record all transactions on 673 their database and send equivalent summary transactions to FSA's general ledger (FMS) in the summary GL interface. 674 The Servicer shall ensure that all transactions that can be applied on borrower accounts are reversible.

6.0

Internal Control Requirements

This section presents the internal control requirements for the DMCS. Number 675 Requirement The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for Federal Student Aid's annual Financial Statement audits.

The Servicer shall participate in detailed working sessions to translate the Independent Public Accountant (IPA) Prepared by Client (PBC) requirement into detailed specifications. This may not be required for all 676 PBC items, but will be required for development of download specifications and identification of adequate documentation of sample transactions selected by the IPA. The Servicer shall execute test runs to validate specification developed during detailed working sessions satisfy the PBC item. Testing must be completed in sufficient time to take any corrective action before the PBC 677 item is due to the IPA. For example, Federal Student Aid in the past required an operating partner to provided test runs of downloads in advance of the audit to allow Federal Student Aid to confirm that the contractor's procedure generated a download that fully satisfied the PBC requirement.

58

Number

Requirement

The Servicer shall modify the procedure followed to generate the PBC item as required by test results or improvements identified during the 678 Department and Federal Student Aid's efforts to continuously improve the audit process. The Servicer shall provide support to Federal Student Aid's management and auditors in their efforts to complete IT portions of the annual A123 assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and the annual 679 financial statement audit. The IT portions of these audits are based on Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual [FISCAM] and other Federal guidance and requirements. FISCAM is available at: http://www.gao.gov/special.pubs/fiscam.html. The Servicer shall develop and execute reports in response to financial 680 statement audit "Prepared-by-Client" (PBC) data requests or as requested by management to support other audits or reviews: 681 The Servicer shall develop and execute additional work products to support responses to auditor inquiries and requests.

The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for assessments of internal controls in accordance with Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A. 682 Examples of audit support services include but are not limited to: walkthroughs and supporting documentation; A-123A process diagrams and control matrices; PBC fulfillment; and corrective action plan development/implementation. The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for program-specific financial and compliance audits conducted by 683 Government Accountability Office (GAO), Office of Inspector General (OIG), and/or OMB. 684 685 686 687 688 The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for FISMA audits. The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for Certification and Accreditation reviews. The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for internal reviews. The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for contract oversight activities. The Servicer shall provide Audit Support Services, upon request for Agreed Upon Procedures Audits for Loan Purchase Programs.

The Servicer shall provide support to Federal Student Aid in compliance 689 with OMB Circular A-123, Appendix C, which incorporates the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002.

59

Number

Requirement

To support the annual financial statement audit, the Servicer shall provide activity download files as identified in the attachment "Audit Support 690 Requirements Specification for Servicer of Defaulted Title IV Loans and Grant Overpayments Handout 1 (DMCS ASR Activity Download)." To support the annual financial statement audit, the Servicer shall provide ending balance download files as identified in the attachment "Audit 691 Support Requirements Specification for Servicer of Defaulted Title IV Loans and Grant Overpayments Handout 2 (DMCS ASR Ending Balance Download)." To support the annual financial statement audit, the Servicer shall provide auditor samples and walkthroughs as identified in the attachment "Audit 692 Support Requirements Specification for Servicer of Defaulted Title IV Loans and Grant Overpayments Handout 3 (DMCS ASR Samples)." The Servicer shall provide a SOC 1 Type II SSAE 16 audit report as 693 identified in attachment "Audit Support Requirements for Loan Servicers Prepared by Client Item Category: IT Controls Review." For operational controls, the Servicer shall ensure that the Type II SSAE 16 covers all GAO Internal Control Standards or Committee of Sponsoring Organization (COSO) Components (e.g., control environment, risk 694 assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring) for those transactions processed by the Servicer. Note: This requirement is monitored by Business Operations. 2 The Servicer shall provide a FISCAM-compliant SOC 1 Type II SSAE 16 report of IT Controls for the period July 1, Y1 (prior calendar year) to June 30, Y2(current fiscal year), delivered to FSA no later than 45 days after the audit period. Alternately, the Servicer may choose to provide two combined FISCAM-compliant Type II SSAE 16 reports of IT Controls and Operational Controls, covering six month periods from 7/1/Y1 thru 12/31/Y1 and 1/1/Y2 thru 6/30/Y2 respectively, each delivered to FSA no later than 45 days after the audit period. If a combined SSAE 16 report is 695 provided, it must clearly break out the IT Control piece from the Operational Controls piece so that each can be separately reviewed by the relevant FSA auditor(s). The Auditors look for coverage of appropriate control objectives and related controls for loan servicing. Although a single report is preferred, provision of the coverage over two SSAE 16 reports is acceptable so long as there are no gaps between the two reporting periods. The more critical element is appropriateness of control objectives to FSA's environment. The Servicer shall also provide a bridge letter to cover the period from July 1, Y2 to September 30 Y2. Said letter should indicate whether or not any 696 changes have occurred to the control environment (and detail any changes that have occurred), and be delivered to FSA to October 1, Y2. This requirement refers to the two preceding requirements.

60

Appendix 1: Desired Enhancements to the DMCS While the DMCS is a functioning system, FSA has identified several enhancements that will improve operational efficiency and better satisfy the functional requirements described in this document. What follows is a list of examples of the types of enhancements that the DMCS Servicer will be required to make. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all desired enhancements but rather is meant to convey a sense of the complexity of the enhancements envisioned. 1. Merge closed and active accounts databases. Currently, the DMCS portfolio is segregated into two databases, one housing active accounts and a second that houses closed accounts. FSA believes it would be beneficial to merge these into a single database. The closed accounts database is not currently part of the replication scheme used for reporting, so historical reporting is difficult. Additionally, closed accounts frequently have to be re-opened in order to load loans that were previously on DMCS and then transferred off (rehabilitated, sent to TPD, etc.). 2. Modify discharge and correspondence routing. Currently, the DMCS routes all inquiries to the PCA that owns the account, even though PCAs are not capable of or expected to respond to most types of inquiries. Inquiries should be reviewed first by the DMCS Servicer and only certain types should be routed to the PCA for handling. 3. Screen print capability. Users should be able to print an easily readable and neatly formatted version of any pane in the DMCS view (financial transactions, historical events, UDPs, etc). Currently, the DMCS has no such capability. 4. Enhanced workflow management. FSA management needs better productivity tracking and more flexible work assignment capabilities, specifically: a. Ability to assign accounts in a worklist to specific FSA employees, either individually or in batches; b. Productivity reports showing number of items worked by FSA employees; c. Ability to view and export lists of accounts in any worklist--even worklists being worked by PCAs and the DMCS Servicer. 5. Allow for refund approval in batches. Currently, FSA must approve every single refund recommended by the DMCS Servicer. In addition to single-refund approval capability, FSA also needs to be able to sample refunds from a batch and then approve the entire batch if the sample is accurate. This includes refunds from suspense, and refunds being sent to a single recipient via IPAC (e.g., another servicer) should constitute a single batch that can be approved. 6. Provide field-level update/read-only granularity on User Defined Pages (UDPs). Currently, a UDP is either entirely read-only, or entirely editable, but many UDPs contain a mix of fields that should be either editable or read-only. For example, the TOP UDPs contain a few fields that should be editable (like the active/inactive flag) and many that reflect information provided by Treasury that no DMCS user (or at least only a very select few users) should be able to change. 7. Produce database extracts. For historical reporting purposes, FSA needs periodic database extracts (snapshots of the portfolio at monthly intervals) of key database fields including loan number and balance. This will allow for easier comparisons of the portfolio at various points in time. 8. Allow for filtering of payment history and historical events. Users need to be able to display only selected record types (e.g., view only payments on the financial transaction screen or only comments by a certain user on the historical events screen). 9. Allow for mass updates. The DMCS Servicer must be able to make mass updates to various fields in the database using an input file provided by FSA. Most common mass updates are balance adjustments and comments. 10. Bundle refunds into a single check. Currently, DMCS only allows for a one-to-one relationship between payments being refunded and refund checks. In some instances, e.g., where garnishment continued long after the account was satisfied, this results in dozens of small refund checks being sent to a single recipient. DMCS needs to be able to bundle multiple payments into a single refund check to the recipient. 11. Prevent notices to known bad addresses. DMCS needs to be able to store a known bad address and prevent users from making that the borrower's address.

61

12. Improve borrower web portal. The borrower web portal does not display an accurate balance (interest is not as of "today" and collection costs are not included on PCA accounts). The web portal needs general enhancements to facilitate more borrower self-service. 13. Develop web portals for guarantors, schools and employers. The DMCS Servicer will need to develop secure web portals for online assignments from schools and guarantors, and for employers to enter AWG updates and check balances on AWG borrowers. 14. Process the death match file from SSA. 15. Identify and correct data conversion problems. When data was converted from the legacy DMCS system (in September, 2011) to the Titanium ORE platform, not all of the data converted correctly and FSA continues to discover new problems. While the legacy system itself has been decommissioned, all of its data is housed in an application called the Legacy Snapshot. The DMCS Servicer will need to conduct a comprehensive comparison of the legacy data to DMCS and correct any errors or omissions. 16. Standardize tags. In many instances, accounts that were in a given status at conversion (e.g., in active garnishment) have different tags than accounts moved into that status in the post-conversion DMCS. The DMCS Servicer will need to standardize these tags so that accounts in a given status are easily identifiable and to ensure consistent handling.

62

Appendix 2: Acronyms Acronym AA ACH ACVB ATB AWG BIDS CAIVRS CFO CFR CIO CIR COD COSO CRC DLCS DLSS DMCS DOJ DPI DRS ECMC ED EFT eIMF FBWT FFEL FIPS FISCAM FISL FISMA FMFIA FMS FMSS FSA FSO GA GAO Account Adjustment Automated Clearinghouse Audit Coordination and Validation Branch Ability to Benefit Administrative wage garnishment Business Intelligence Development Studio Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System Chief Financial Officer Code of Federal Regulations Chief Information Officer Collections Information Repository Common Origination and Disbursement Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Credit Reform Code Direct Loan Consolidation System Direct Loan Servicing System Debt Management and Collections System Department of Justice Data Provider Instructions Debt Recovery Service Educational Credit Management Corporation Education Department Electronic Funds Transfer Electronic Internal Mail Form Fund Balance with Treasury Federal Family Education Loan Federal Information Processing Standards Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual Federally Insured Student Loan Federal Information Security Management Act Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act Financial Management System Financial Management Support System Federal Student Aid Federal Salary Offset Guaranty Agency Government Accountability Office Definition

63

Acronym GL HHS HUD ID IPA IPAC IPM IRS IT IVRU LVC NDSL NFP NIST NPWW NSLDS OIG OMB OPE OPM OVMS PBC PCA PEPS PIA PII POVR PRMS SAIG SAS SF SME SSA SSN SSP SSMS SSRS TEACH TOP TPD General ledger Health and Human Services Housing and Urban Development Identifier Independent Public Accountant

Definition

Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection Integrated Partner Management Internal Revenue Service Information Technology Interactive Voice Response Unit Loan Verification Certificate National Direct Student Loan Not for Profit National Institute of Standards and Technology Notice of Proposed Wage Withholding National Student Loan Data System Office of Inspector General Office of Management and Budget Office of Post-secondary Education Office of Personnel Management Operational Vulnerability Management Solution Prepared by Client Private Collection Agency(ies) Postsecondary Education Participants System Privacy Impact Assessment Personally Identifiable Information Program Overpayment Person Record Management Service Student Aid Internet Gateway Statement of Auditing Standards Standard Form Subject Matter Expert Social Security Administration Social Security Number System Security Plan Sequel Server Management Studio Sequel Server Reporting Services Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education Treasury Offset Program Total and Permanent Disability

64

Acronym Treasury TRS UDP USAO USPS Department of the Treasury Transaction Reporting System User Defined Page United States Attorney's Office United States Postal Service

Definition

65

Appendix 3: Anticipated Changes in Trading Partner Environment The new DMCS Servicer should anticipate a number of changes in the trading partner environment during the period immediately following award of this contract:     New private collection agency contracts will be awarded A new Federal Servicer for campus-based student loans (Perkins, National Direct and National Defense) One or more new contractors to originate consolidation loans Additional not-for-profit (NFP) Federal Servicers

66

Appendix 4: DMCS Volumes What follows are approximate volumes for the portfolio size and key processing functions. Processing volumes are annual unless otherwise indicated. This information is intended to give bidders a sense for the scope of the work involved, but is not an official projection of what volumes the DMCS Servicer may actually encounter. Portfolio Size Unique borrowers in active database Debts in active database Unique borrowers in closed database Debts in closed database Call Volumes Annual live operator-assisted calls Average Talk Time Peak daily volume of operator-assisted calls Percentage of calls handled in Spanish Correspondence Non-Control Mail (general inquiries) Control Mail AWG Hearings TOP Hearings Email inquiries Discharges Death Disability ATB (False Certification) ATB (Disqualifying condition) Unauthorized Signature Unpaid Tuition Refund Closed School Payments Borrower voluntary payments AWG Payments Loan Assignments Projected Portfolio Volume 2014 ­ 2018 2019 ­ 2013

3,900,000 11,200,000 5,581,455 9,060,949 1,400,000 6min 1 sec 12,000 2% 48,525 2,446 17,000 5,978 4,592 33,244 75,773 2,139 445 1,718 4,130 957 2,200,000 1,300,000 1,775,546 7 million 10 million

67

Appendix 5: Security Requirements (Pre and Post Award)

Embedded file below presents security requirements for both pre and post award.
Contract Security Requirements.pdf

68

III.

ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)

52.212-4 Contract Terms And Conditions--Commercial Items (FEB 2012)--TAILORED (c) (1) Changes. The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: (i) Description of services to be performed. (ii) Time of performance (i.e., hours of the day, days of the week, etc.). (iii)Place of performance of the services. (2) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract. (3) The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract. (4) If the Contractor's proposal includes the cost of property made obsolete or excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property. (5) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed. ADDITIONAL CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS TYPE OF CONTRACT A single, Firm-Fixed Price award under NAICS Code 522110 is anticipated. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE The period of performance for this Firm-Fixed Price contract may last up to ten (10) years, consisting of a 1year Base and (9) nine 1-year Option Periods. Term Base Option I Option II Option III Option IV Option V Option VI Option VII Option VIII Option IX Start date January 1, 2014 January 1, 2015 January 1, 2016 January 1, 2017 January 1, 2018 January 1, 2019 January 1, 2020 January 1, 2021 January 1, 2022 January 1, 2023 End date December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2023

69

IV.

CONTRACT CLAUSES

A. 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses, shown in the table below, by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. The full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address (es) https://www.acquisition.gov/far/ (End of clause) FAR Clause Title Date 52.203-3 Gratuities (APR 1984) 52.203.14 Display of Hotline Poster(s) (DEC 2007) 52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (MAY 2011) 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011) 52.209-9 Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (FEB 2012) 52.214-4 Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Items (FEB 2012) 52.224-1 Privacy Act Notification (APR1984) 52.224-2 Privacy Act (APR 1984) 52.227-14 Rights in Data--General (DEC 2007) 52.227-17 Rights in Data--Special Works (DEC 2007) 52.227-19 Commercial Computer Software License (DEC 2007) 52.232.17 Interest (OCT 2010) 52.232-18 Availability of Funds (APR 1984) 52.237-2 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, And Vegetation (APR 1984) 52.237-3 Continuity of Services (JAN 1991) 52.242-13 Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) 52.242-15 Stop-Work Order (AUG 1989) 52.245-1 Government Property Alternate I (APR 2012) 52.245-9 Use and Charges (APR2012) 52.246-16 Responsibility for Supplies (APR 1984) 52.247-34 F.O.B. Destination (JAN 1991) B. 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-- Commercial Items (JAN 2013) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). 70

_X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) _X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Aug 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _X _ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X_ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). __ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (11) [Reserved] __ (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). __ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). __ (13)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. __ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). _X_ (15)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. __ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). __ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). _X (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). __ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Representation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X_ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). 71

_X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X_ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-theshelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) (E.O. 13513). __ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (Nov 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 11243). __ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iv) Alternate III (Nov 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (NOV 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). _X_ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.

72

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] _X_ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _X (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O.13495). __ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110247). __ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). 73

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause)

C. 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999)
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 90 days of contract expiration. (End of clause) D. 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 90 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 10 years. (End of clause)

E. 52.245-2 Government Property Installation Operation Services (APR 2012) (a) This Government Property listed in paragraph (e) of this clause is furnished to the Contractor in an "as-is, where is" condition. The Government makes no warranty regarding the suitability for use of the Government property specified in this contract. The Contractor shall be afforded the opportunity to inspect the Government property as specified in the solicitation. (b) The Government bears no responsibility for repair or replacement of any lost Government property. If any or all of the Government property is lost or becomes no longer usable, the Contractor shall be responsible for 74

replacement of the property at Contractor expense. The Contractor shall have title to all replacement property and shall continue to be responsible for contract performance. (c) Unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise, the Government abandons all rights and title to unserviceable and scrap property resulting from contract performance. Upon notification to the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall remove such property from the Government premises and dispose of it at Contractor expense. (d) Except as provided in this clause, Government property furnished under this contract shall be governed by the Government Property clause of this contract. (e) Government property provided under this clause: _________________________________________ __________________________________________ __________________________________________ (End of Clause) F. EDAR 3452.201-70 Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) (MAR 2011) (a) The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) is responsible for the technical aspects of the project, technical liaison with the contractor, and any other responsibilities that are specified in the contract. These responsibilities include inspecting all deliverables, including reports, and recommending acceptance or rejection to the Contracting Officer. (b) The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes that affect the contract price, terms, or conditions. Any contractor requests for changes shall be submitted in writing directly to the Contracting Officer or through the COR. No such changes shall be made without the written authorization of the Contracting Officer. (c) The COR's name and contact information: TBD Contracting Officer Representation (COR) U.S. Department of Education Office of Federal Student Aid 830 1st Street, NE, Room TBD Washington, DC 20202 (202) 377-TBD (d) The COR may be changed by the Government at any time, but notification of the change, including the name and address of the successor COR, will be provided to the contractor by the Contracting Officer in writing. (End of Clause) G. EDAR 3452.208-71 Printing (MAR 2011) Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the contractor shall not engage in, nor subcontract for, any printing (as that term is defined in Title I of the Government Printing and Binding Regulations in effect on the effective date of this contract) in connection with the performance of work under this contract; except that performance involving the duplication of fewer than 5,000 units of any one page, or fewer than 25,000 units in the aggregate of multiple pages, shall not be deemed to be printing. A unit is defined as one side of one sheet, one color only (with black counting as a color), with a maximum image size of 75

103/4 by 141/4 inches on a maximum paper size of 11 by 17 inches. Examples of counting the number of units: black plus one additional color on one side of one page counts as two units. Three colors (including black) on two sides of one page count as six units. (End of Clause) H. EDAR 3452.208-72 Paperwork Reduction Act (MAR 2011) a) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 applies to contractors that collect information for use or disclosure by the Federal government. If the contractor will collect information requiring answers to identical questions from 10 or more people, no plan, questionnaire, interview guide, or other similar device for collecting information may be used without first obtaining clearance from the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) or the CAO's designee within the Department of Education (ED) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Contractors and Contracting Officers' Representatives shall be guided by the provisions of 5 CFR part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, and should seek the advice of the Department's Paperwork Clearance Officer to determine the procedures for acquiring CAO and OMB clearance. (b) The contractor shall obtain the required clearances through the Contracting Officer's Representative before expending any funds or making public contacts for the collection of information described in paragraph (a) of this clause. The authority to expend funds and proceed with the collection shall be in writing by the contracting officer. The contractor must plan at least 120 days for CAO and OMB clearance. Excessive delay caused by the Government that arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the contractor will be considered in accordance with the Excusable Delays or Default clause of this contract. (End of Clause) I. EDAR 3452.209-71 Conflict of Interest (MAR 2011) (a)(1) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, has certified that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances that could give rise to an organizational or personal conflict of interest (see FAR Subpart 9.5 for organizational conflicts of interest) (or apparent conflict of interest) for the organization or any of its staff, and that the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has disclosed all such relevant information if such a conflict of interest appears to exist to a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts (or if such a person would question the impartiality of the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant). Conflicts may arise in the following situations: (i) Unequal access to information--A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has access to nonpublic information through its performance on a government contract. (ii) Biased ground rules--A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has worked, in one government contract, or program, on the basic structure or ground rules of another government contract. (iii) Impaired objectivity--A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, or member of their immediate family (spouse, parent, or child) has financial or other interests that would impair, or give the appearance of impairing, impartial judgment in the evaluation of government programs, in offering advice or recommendations to the government, or in providing technical assistance or other services to recipients of Federal funds as part of its contractual responsibility. ``Impaired objectivity'' includes but is not limited to the following situations that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question a person's objectivity: (A) Financial interests or reasonably foreseeable financial interests in or in connection with products, property, or services that may be purchased by an educational agency, a person, organization, or institution in the course of implementing any program administered by the Department; 76

(B) Significant connections to teaching methodologies that might require or encourage the use of specific products, property, or services; or (C) Significant identification with pedagogical or philosophical viewpoints that might require or encourage the use of a specific curriculum, specific products, property, or services. (2) Offerors must provide the disclosure described above on any actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) of interest regardless of their opinion that such a conflict or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) would not impair their objectivity. (3) In a case in which an actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) is disclosed, the Department will take appropriate actions to eliminate or address the actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest), including but not limited to mitigating or neutralizing the conflict, when appropriate, through such means as ensuring a balance of views, disclosure with the appropriate disclaimers, or by restricting or modifying the work to be performed to avoid or reduce the conflict. In this clause, the term ``potential conflict'' means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. (b) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees that if ``impaired objectivity'', or an actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) is discovered after the award is made, it will make a full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions that the contractor has taken or proposes to take, after consultation with the contracting officer, to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest). (c) Remedies. The Government may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. If the contractor was aware of a potential conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the contracting officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. These remedies include imprisonment for up to five years for violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 and fines of up to $5,000 for violation of 31 U.S.C. 3802. Further remedies include suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal government. The contractor may also be required to reimburse the Department for costs the Department incurs arising from activities related to conflicts of interest. An example of such costs would be those incurred in processing Freedom of Information Act requests related to a conflict of interest. (d) In cases where remedies short of termination have been applied, the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees to eliminate the organizational conflict of interest, or mitigate it to the satisfaction of the contracting officer. (e) The contractor further agrees to insert in any subcontract or consultant agreement hereunder, provisions that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including specific mention of potential remedies and this paragraph (e). (End of Clause) J. EDAR 3452.224-70 Release of Information under the Freedom of Information Act (MAR 2011) By entering into a contract with the Department of Education, the contractor, without regard to proprietary markings, approves the release of the entire contract and all related modifications and task orders including, but not limited to: (1) Unit prices, including labor rates; (2) Statements of Work/Performance Work Statements generated by the contractor; (3) Performance requirements, including incentives, performance standards, quality levels, and service level agreements; (4) Reports, deliverables, and work products delivered in performance of the contract (including quality of service, performance against requirements/standards/service level agreements); (5) Any and all information, data, software, and related documentation first provided under the contract; 77

(6) Proposals or portions of proposals incorporated by reference; and (7) Other terms and conditions. (End of Clause) K. EDAR 3452.227-70 Publication and Publicity (MAR 2011) (a) Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the contractor is encouraged to publish and otherwise promote the results of its work under this contract. A copy of each article or work submitted by the contractor for publication shall be promptly sent to the contracting officer's representative. The contractor shall also inform the representative when the article or work is published and furnish a copy in the published form. (b) The contractor shall acknowledge the support of the Department of Education in publicizing the work under this contract in any medium. This acknowledgement shall read substantially as follows: ``This project has been funded at least in part with Federal funds from the U.S. Department of Education under contract number [Insert number]. The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the U.S. Department of Education nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.'' (End of Clause) L. EDAR 3452.227-71 Advertising of Awards (MAR 2011) The contractor agrees not to refer to awards issued by, or products or services delivered to, the Department of Education in commercial advertising in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed by the Federal government or is considered by the Federal government to be superior to other products or services. (End of Clause) M. EDAR 3452.227-72 Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement (MAR 2011) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, proprietary data, technical data, or computer software delivered to the Government with restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure may not be provided to third parties unless the intended recipient completes and signs the use and non-disclosure agreement in paragraph (c) of this clause prior to release or disclosure of the data. (1) The specific conditions under which an intended recipient will be authorized to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose proprietary data or technical data subject to limited rights, or computer software subject to restricted rights must be stipulated in an attachment to the use and non-disclosure agreement. (2) For an intended release, disclosure, or authorized use of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software subject to special license rights, modify paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this clause to enter the conditions, consistent with the license requirements, governing the recipient's obligations regarding use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of the data or software. (b) The requirement for use and nondisclosure agreements does not apply to Government contractors that require access to a third party's data or software for the performance of a Government contract that contains the 3452.227­73 clause, Limitations on the use or disclosure of Government furnished information marked with restrictive legends. (c) The prescribed use and non-disclosure agreement is: Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement The undersigned, [Insert Name], an authorized representative of the [Insert Company Name], (which is hereinafter referred to as the ``recipient'') requests the Government to provide the recipient with proprietary data, technical data, or computer software (hereinafter referred to as ``data'') in which the Government's use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure rights are restricted. Those data are 78

identified in an attachment to this agreement. In consideration for receiving such data, the recipient agrees to use the data strictly in accordance with this agreement. (1) The recipient shall-- (i) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose data marked with Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) data rights legends only for government purposes and shall not do so for any commercial purpose. The recipient shall not release, perform, display, or disclose these data, without the express written permission of the contractor whose name appears in the restrictive legend (the contractor), to any person other than its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, who require these data to submit offers for, or perform, contracts with the recipient. The recipient shall require its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, to sign a use and non-disclosure agreement prior to disclosing or releasing these data to such persons. Such an agreement must be consistent with the terms of this agreement. (ii) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose proprietary data or technical data marked with limited rights legends only as specified in the attachment to this agreement. Release, performance, display, or disclosure to other persons is not authorized unless specified in the attachment to this agreement or expressly permitted in writing by the contractor. (iii) Use computer software marked with restricted rights legends only in performance of contract number [insert contract number(s)]. The recipient shall not, for example, enhance, decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer the software; time share; or use a computer program with more than one computer at a time. The recipient may not release, perform, display, or disclose such software to others unless expressly permitted in writing by the licensor whose name appears in the restrictive legend. (iv) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose data marked with special license rights legends [To be completed by the contracting officer. See paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. Omit if none of the data requested is marked with special license rights legends]. (2) The recipient agrees to adopt or establish operating procedures and physical security measures designed to protect these data from inadvertent release or disclosure to unauthorized third parties. (3) The recipient agrees to accept these data ``as is'' without any Government representation as to suitability for intended use or warranty whatsoever. This disclaimer does not affect any obligation the Government may have regarding data specified in a contract for the performance of that contract. (4) The recipient may enter into any agreement directly with the contractor with respect to the use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of these data. (5) The recipient agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government, its agents, and employees from every claim or liability, including attorneys fees, court costs, and expenses arising out of, or in any way related to, the misuse or unauthorized modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of data received from the Government with restrictive legends by the recipient or any person to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data. (6) The recipient is executing this agreement for the benefit of the contractor. The contractor is a third party beneficiary of this agreement who, in addition to any other rights it may have, is intended to have the rights of direct action against the recipient or any other person to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data, to seek damages from any breach of this agreement, or to otherwise enforce this agreement. (7) The recipient agrees to destroy these data, and all copies of the data in its possession, no later than 30 days after the date shown in paragraph (8) of this agreement, to have all persons to whom it released the data do so by that date, and to notify the contractor that the data have been destroyed. (8) This agreement shall be effective for the period commencing with the recipient's execution of th is agreement and ending upon [Insert Date]. The obligations imposed by this agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of the agreement. [Insert business name.] Recipient's Business Name [Have representative sign.] Authorized Representative [Insert date.] 79

Date [Insert name and title.] Representative's Typed Name and Title (End of Clause) N. EDAR 3452.227-73 Limitations on the use or Disclosure of Government-Furnished Information marked with restrictive legends (MAR 2011) (a) For contracts under which data are to be produced, furnished, or acquired, the terms limited rights and restricted rights are defined in the rights in data--general clause (FAR 52.227­14).(b) Proprietary data, technical data, or computer software provided to the contractor as Government-furnished information (GFI) under this contract may be subject to restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or further disclosure. (1) Proprietary data with legends that serve to restrict disclosure or use of data. The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, perform, or display proprietary data received from the Government with proprietary or restrictive legends only in the performance of this contract. The contractor shall not, without the express written permission of the party who owns the data, release, or disclose such data or software to any person. (2) GFI marked with limited or restricted rights legends. The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, perform, or display technical data received from the Government with limited rights legends or computer software received with restricted rights legends only in the performance of this contract. The contractor shall not, without the express written permission of the party whose name appears in the legend, release or disclose such data or software to any person. (3) GFI marked with specially negotiated license rights legends. The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, or display proprietary data, technical data, or computer software received from the Government with specially negotiated license legends only as permitted in the license. Such data or software may not be released or disclosed to other persons unless permitted by the license and, prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient has completed the use and non-disclosure agreement. The contractor shall modify paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of the use and nondisclosure agreement (3452.227­72) to reflect the recipient's obligations regarding use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, and disclosure of the data or software. (c) Indemnification and creation of third party beneficiary rights. (1) The contractor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government, its agents, and employees from every claim or liability, including attorneys fees, court costs, and expenses, arising out of, or in any way related to, the misuse or unauthorized modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software received from the Government with restrictive legends by the contractor or any person to whom the contractor has released or disclosed such data or software. (2) The contractor agrees that the party whose name appears on the restrictive legend, in addition to any other rights it may have, is a third party beneficiary who has the right of direct action against the contractor, or any person to whom the contractor has released or disclosed such data or software, for the unauthorized duplication, release, or disclosure of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software subject to restrictive legends. (End of Clause) O. EDAR 3452.237-71 Observance of Administrative Closures (MAR 2011) (a) The contract schedule identifies all Federal holidays that are observed under this contract. Contractor performance is required under this contract at all other times, and compensated absences are not extended due to administrative closures of Government facilities and operations due to inclement weather, Presidential decree, or other administrative issuances where Government personnel receive early dismissal instructions. (b) In cases of contract performance at a Government facility when the facility is closed, the vendor may arrange for performance to continue during the closure at the contractor's site, if appropriate. (End of Clause) 80

P. EDAR 3452.239.70 Internet Protocol Version 6 (MAR 2011) (a) Any system hardware, software, firmware, or networked component (voice, video, or data) developed, procured, or acquired in support or performance of this contract shall be capable of transmitting, receiving, processing, forwarding, and storing digital information across system boundaries utilizing system packets that are formatted in accordance with commercial standards of Internet protocol (IP) version 6 (IPv6) as set forth in Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Request for Comments (RFC) 2460 and associated IPv6related IETF RFC standards. In addition, this system shall maintain interoperability with IPv4 systems and provide at least the same level of performance and reliability capabilities of IPv4 products. (b) Specifically, any new IP product or system developed, acquired, or produced must-- (1) Interoperate with both IPv6 and IPv4 systems and products; and (2) Have available contractor/vendor IPv6 technical support for development and implementation and fielded product management. (c) Any exceptions to the use of IPv6 require the agency's CIO to give advance, written approval. (End of Clause) Q. EDAR 3452.239.72 Department Security Requirements (MAR 2011) (a) The contractor and its subcontractors shall comply with Department security policy requirements as set forth in the ``Bidder's Security Package: Security Requirements for Contractors Doing Business with the Department of Education'' at http://www.ed.gov/fund/contract/about/bsp.html. (b) The following are the contractor employee positions required under this contract and their designated risk levels: High Risk (HR): [Specify HR positions.] Moderate Risk (MR): [Specify MR positions.] Low Risk (LR): [Specify LR positions.] (c) All contractor employees must undergo personnel security screening if they will be employed for 30 days or more, in accordance with Departmental Directive OM:5­101, ``Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings.'' The type of screening and the timing of the screening will depend upon the nature of the contractor position, the type of data to be accessed, and the type of information technology (IT) system access required. Personnel security screenings will be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm the individual could cause. (d) The contractor shall-- (1) Ensure that all non-U.S. citizen contractor employees are lawful permanent residents of the United States or have appropriate work authorization documents as required by the Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Immigration and Appeals, to work in the United States. (2) Ensure that no employees are assigned to high risk designated positions prior to a completed preliminary screening. (3) Submit all required personnel security forms to the contracting officer's representative (COR) within 24 hours of an assignment to a Department contract and ensure that the forms are complete. (4) Ensure that no contractor employee is placed in a higher risk position than that for which he or she was previously approved, without the approval of the contracting officer or the COR, the Department personnel security officer, and the Department computer security officer. (5) Ensure that all contractor employees occupying high-risk designated positions submit forms for reinvestigation every five years for the duration of the contract or if there is a break in service to a Department contract of 365 days or more. (6) Report to the COR all instances of individuals seeking to obtain unauthorized access to any departmental IT system, or sensitive but unclassified and/or Privacy Act protected information. (7) Report to the COR any information that raises an issue as to whether a contractor employee's eligibility for continued employment or access to Department IT systems, or sensitive but 81

unclassified and/or Privacy Act protected information, promotes the efficiency of the service or violates the public trust. (8) Withdraw from consideration under the contract any employee receiving an unfavorable adjudication determination. (9) Officially notify each contractor employee if he or she will no longer work on a Department contract. (10) Abide by the requirements in Departmental Directive OM:5­101, ``Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings.'' (e) Further information including definitions of terms used in this clause and a list of required investigative forms for each risk designation are contained in Departmental Directive OM:5­101, ``Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings'' available at the Web site listed in the first paragraph of this clause. (f) Failure to comply with the contractor personnel security requirements may result in a termination of the contract for default. (End of Clause) R. EDAR 3452.242-71 Notice to the Government of Delays (MAR 2011) The contractor shall notify the contracting officer of any actual or potential situation, including but not limited to labor disputes, that delays or threatens to delay the timely performance of work under this contract. The contractor shall immediately give written notice thereof, including all relevant information. (End of Clause) S. EDAR 3452.242-73 Accessibility of Meetings, Conferences, and Seminars to Persons with Disabilities (MAR 2011) The contractor shall assure that any meeting, conference, or seminar held pursuant to the contract will meet all applicable standards for accessibility to persons with disabilities pursuant to section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794) and any implementing regulations of the Department. (End of Clause) T. EDAR 3452.243.70 Key Personnel (MAR 2011) (a) The personnel designated as key personnel in this contract are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder. Prior to diverting any of the specified individuals to other programs, or otherwise substituting any other personnel for specified personnel, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer reasonably in advance and shall submit justification (including proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the contract effort. No diversion or substitution shall be made by the contractor without written consent of the contracting officer; provided, that the contracting officer may ratify a diversion or substitution in writing and that ratification shall constitute the consent of the contracting officer required by this clause. The contract shall be modified to reflect the addition or deletion of key personnel. (b) The following personnel have been identified as Key Personnel in the performance of this contract: Labor category Name [Insert category.] [Insert name.] (End of Clause) U. FSA 25-1 Prohibitions on Contract Performance Outside of the United States (JUL 2012) The Contractor has represented to the Department that it will perform all work required under this Contract within the United States. If, at any time, the Contractor wishes to perform any Contract work outside the United States, the Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer, in advance and in writing, of its intention and request the Department's approval. The Contractor shall not perform any Contract work outside the United States unless and until it has received the Contracting Officer's explicit, written approval to perform such work. In order to give proper consideration to the Contractor's request, the Department may ask for, and the Contractor shall provide, information relevant to the proposed performance outside the United States, including but not limited to a detailed description of the physical, personnel and management resources to be used and 82

any potential difficulties or constraints in performing in the foreign jurisdiction. The Department may refuse to approve Contract performance outside the United States to the extent that, solely in the Department's judgment, the Contractor has not shown that performance outside the United States would satisfy the Contract requirements and would not impair or degrade performance. Further, the Department may refuse to approve any performance outside the United States for any other reason, or for no reason, except as otherwise required by the laws and treaties of the United States. The Department may approve performance outside the United States subject to certain conditions, to which conditions the Contractor shall strictly adhere. Neither performance within the United States, nor the Department's refusal to allow performance outside the United States shall ever constitute a change to this Contract or give rise to any entitlement to additional compensation or excuse any failure of performance by the Contractor. Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted to impose any obligation on the Department to allow or to refuse a request for performance of this Contract outside the United States. (End of Clause) V. FSA 27-1 Labeling of Documents (JUN 2007) The Contractor shall not label any data produced in performance of this contract in a way that would restrict the Government's right to use or release the information. If applicable, the Contractor shall include a legend that identifies sensitive data that should not be released for security reasons. Under FAR clause 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General (or 52.227-15, -16, -17) clause, this data may be used for any purpose the Government deems appropriate. Deliverables shall not contain vendor-specific logos, mottos, watermarks, or holograms. The Contractor shall not use, particularly for proposals, U.S. Government logos, such as the U.S. Department of Education or Federal Student Aid. (End of Clause) W. FSA 32-1 Invoice Clause (MAR 2012) The Contractor must submit an invoice via mail, fax, or e-mail for this contract in order to be paid for products and/or services rendered. For Prompt Payment Act purposes, Invoices received after 3 p.m. will be processed on the next business day. Federal Student Aid's "Designated Billing Office" (DBO) is: US Department of Education Union Center Plaza Federal Student Aid Administration 830 First Street, NE ­ Suite 54B1 Washington, D.C. 20201-0001 E-mail: InvoiceAdmin @ed.gov Fax: (202) 275-3477 A contractor shall also simultaneously submit copies of the invoice to the Contracting Officer (CO) and one to the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). The CO and COR should receive copies via the same means as the invoice sent to the DBO. When submitting an invoice via mail, the Contractor shall submit the original invoice and two copies of the invoice. At a minimum the following items must be addressed in order for the invoice to be considered "proper" for payment: (1) Name and Address of the Contractor. 83

(2) Invoice Number and Invoice Date. (3) The Contract number, contract line item, and if applicable, the order number. (4) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price of the delivered item or service, as defined in the contract or order. (5) Terms of any offered prompt payment discount. (6) Name, title, and phone number of persons to be notified in event of a defective invoice. (7) The period of time covered by the invoice. (8) Totals, supported by subtotals, and subtotals should be supported by detail (i.e. documentation for categories of labor, hours performed, unit prices) and deliverables provided. (9) If required by this contract or order, receipts must be provided to support documentation of "other direct costs" (ODCs) or materials. (10) SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR FINANCE PAYMENTS: Invoices for finance payments shall specifically and prominently identify the payment request as follows: REQUEST FOR FINANCING PAYMENT Finance payments are not subject to the Prompt Payment Act. Failure to identify the invoice as a request for financing may result in delay of payment. Invoices that are identified as Requests for Finance Payments shall only include the finance payments listed in the contract. Requests for finance payments shall not be combined with other types of invoice payments. (End of Clause) X. FSA 37-2 Continuation of Mission Critical Contractor Services (JUL 2012) (a) Definition. As used in this clause-- (1) Mission Critical Contractor System or Other Services are defined as a system or other services that have a material impact on the accomplishment of the Federal Student Aid mission. (b) The services under this contract are vital to the mission of the Department of Education (ED). The Contractor shall be responsible for the availability of all systems operated, or other services performed by the Contractor for ED, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes services that directly support the agency's mission. (c) The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain a Continuation of Mission Critical Services Plan for continuing performance of services no matter the circumstances. The Plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure continued availability of services under this contract. Any alternate site used as part of Disaster Recovery shall be fully operational within 24 hours of a declared disaster. The Contractor shall identify in the Plan the provisions made for the acquisition of mission critical personnel and resources, if necessary, for continuity of operations for up to 30 days or until normal operations can be resumed. (d) The offeror shall provide with its offer a written preliminary plan describing how it will continue to perform the contractor services listed in the Work Statement herein. (e) Within 30 days after contract award, the Contractor shall submit its Plan for approval, which shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal. The Plan, as approved by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The Plan must, at a minimum, address: 1. Name of company's officer overall responsible for the maintenance, management, exercising and execution of the Plan; 2. Plans and procedures; 3. Identification of mission critical functions; 4. The time lapse associated with the initiation of the acquisition of mission critical personnel and resources and their actual availability on site; 84

5. Delegations of authority, planned order of succession, and cross-training to ensure personnel are available to provide services and make key decisions; 6. Proposed alternate operating facilities, interoperable, connectivity and emergency communications approach; 7. Critical records or data storage procedures; 8. Protection of human capital; 9. Testing approach for (fill-in number of) annual tests a year-to be determined once the plan is approved; 10. Training plan; 11. Delegation of control and direction; 12. Reconstitution and resuming normal operations plans; and 13. Schedule for periodic review and revisions of Plan. (f) The Contractor shall maintain and update its Plan as necessary and adhere to its requirements throughout the contract term. The Contractor shall not materially alter the Plan without the Contracting Officer's written consent. (g) As directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall participate and collaborate with ED and its contractors in training events, exercises, and drills associated with Government efforts to test the effectiveness of continuity of operations procedures and practices with internal and external entities. Results of the exercises shall be delivered to the Contracting Officer or other designated representative within 10 days after the exercise. (h) In the event the Contractor anticipates not being able to perform any of the mission critical contractor services identified in the paragraph above, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer or other designated representative immediately and use its best efforts to cooperate with the Government in the Government's efforts to maintain the continuity of operations. In no way does (h) relieve the contractor of financial responsibility in meeting the contract terms and conditions. (i) The Government reserves the right to use Federal employees of other agencies or support from other parties or to enter into new contracts for mission critical contractor services. Any new contracting efforts would be conducted in accordance with OFPP letter, "Emergency Acquisitions'' May 2011 and FAR Part 18, respectively, or any other subsequent emergency guidance issued. (j) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (j), in subcontracts for the mission critical services. (End of Clause) Y. FSA 39-1 Reporting Requirements for Departed Contractor Employees (AUG 2012) As part of security clearance processing, the contractor is required to notify the Government no later than the end of the business day on the day a contractor employee proposed for or awarded a security clearance under this contract or memorandum of understanding departs employment under this contract or memorandum of understanding. To meet this requirement, the contractor shall send an encrypted email to FSAPersonnelSecurity@ed.gov and OMPersonnelSecurity@ed.gov with a carbon copy to the Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer's Representative, and Information Security System Officer. The contractor will be advised under separate communications of the encryption password schematics that must be followed in reporting under this clause. The subject line of the email shall read "Departed User", and include the following information:  Employee Last Name, First Name  eQIP number, if available  Date employee hired under the contract or memorandum of understanding  Contract or memorandum of understanding number  List of systems to which employee has access (End of Clause)

85

Z. FSA 42-1 Post Award Evaluation of Contractor Performance (JUL 2012) Interim and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.15. The system utilized to record past performance evaluations is the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), which is a feeder system for the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS). The Contractor shall designate a CPARS Representative to administer evaluations for the Contractor. The Representative shall be responsible for reviewing and commenting on proposed ratings and remarks for all assessments forwarded by the Contracting Officer. The first Interim CPAR report shall be assessed after 12 months of contract performance, with Interim reports assessed every 12 months thereafter. If the award value is over the Simplified Acquisition Threshold, and the period of performance is shorter than 12 months, the evaluation shall be assessed at the completion of work. The Contractor will be permitted thirty (30) days to review the evaluation and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement in CPARS. If the Contractor does not comment during the review period, the report shall be finalized after (30) days. The Final contract performance evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work. Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to the next higher level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision will be final. Copies of the evaluation, contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and will be used to support future award decisions. Copies of completed evaluations can be obtained in CPARS and PPIRS. (End of Clause) AA. FSA 45-1 Special Contract Requirements for Government Furnished Property ­ Two Factor Authentication Tokens (TFA) (SEP 2011) In addition to the requirements of 52.245-1(b) - Government Property, the contractor shall: a) Ensure the contractor's Government Property Manager or designee shall sign a distribution letter provide by the Contracting Officer upon receipt of Government Property; b) Comply with instructions on how to register the tokens using the Federal Student Aid Two Factor Authentication Token For FSA User Handout distributed with the tokens; c) Seek immediate assistance with any challenges encountered with FSA CITRIX and TFA and immediately report any security or other incidents by telephone or email to the helpdesk at: 1-877603-4188 or ed.customer.service@ed.gov and; d) Provide a Property Management Plan to the Contracting Officer within 5 business days of receipt of the Government Furnished Property. Among other requirement required under FAR 52.245-1(b) the Property Management Plan must contain at minimum the following:  Description on how the contractor will establish and maintain an auditable record of the token assignment to its employees by individual name and token Serial Number (AVT+9 digits);  Method by which the contractor shall ensure that the serial number label on the back of each token remains legible and secure to the device.  Security and management process for the physical devices as well as changes in assignment. (End of Clause)

86

V. INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS Addendum to FAR 52.212-1 - Instructions to Offerors - Commercial Items (FEB 2012) In accordance with EDAR 3415.302­70 Two-phase source selection, Phase I solicitation is unrestricted under NAICS Code 522110. 1.0 General The Offeror(s) whose proposal conforms to this Request for Proposal (RFP) and will be most advantageous to the Government where price and other factors considered such that it provides the "best value" to the Government will be selected to participate in Phase II. The Offeror(s) selected for Phase II will be subject to complying with Information Technology (IT) standards and guidelines applicable to all federal agencies. Offeror(s) must also comply with the policies and procedures specific to the U.S. Department of Education and Federal Student Aid. The IT Standards Library offers pertinent references for those who do or would like to do business with Federal Student Aid. Documents selected for the library, however, may not encompass all of the documentation or references necessary to perform work for Federal Student Aid. Additional information can be found via http://studentaid.ed.gov/about/contracting-info/it-standards. The Offeror shall submit documentation illustrating their approach for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Proposals must be clear, coherent, and prepared in sufficient detail for effective evaluation of the offeror's proposal against the evaluation criteria. Also, this documentation shall cover all aspects of this solicitation and shall specifically address the Offeror's approach for operations and maintenance of DMCS. Proposals must clearly demonstrate how the Offeror intends to accomplish the project and must include convincing rationale and substantiation of all claims. Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete effective response to the solicitation are not desired. The Offeror shall describe its proposal, through the use of graphs, charts, diagrams and narrative, in sufficient detail for the Government to understand and evaluate the nature of the approach. In its evaluation and confidence assessment, the Government will consider the degree of substantiation of proposed approaches in the proposal volumes and in response to any discussions. Offerors shall adhere to the applicable wage determinations in accordance with FAR 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007). Instructions to obtain the applicable wage determination are as follows: 1. Go to: http://www.wdol.gov. 2. Under Service Contract Act, click on Selection SCA WDs. 3. Select state & county where the services are to be performed then click Continue. 4. Were these services previously performed at this locality under an SCA-Covered contract? Select "Yes" or "No". 5. Are the contract services to be performed listed below as Non-Standard Services? If so, then highlight the service by clicking on it, and then click "Yes". If the contract services are not listed, then click "No". 6. The Wage Determination you have requested will be provided. Please Note: Wage Determinations are subject to change on an annual basis and shall be monitored by the contractor to ensure continuous compliance.

87

If the Offeror includes restrictive data in its proposal that should not be disclosed to the public for any purpose, or used by the Government (except for evaluation purposes) it shall include a title page with the following legend: "This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used or disclosed ­ in whole or in part ­ for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this Offeror as a result of ­ or in connection with ­ the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government's right to use information contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to the restriction is contained in sheets (insert numbers or other identification of sheets)." In addition to the above, each sheet of data that should be restricted shall include the following legend: "Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal." Offers must be submitted in three volumes: (I) Solicitation, Offer, Award and Representation/Certifications, (II) Technical Proposal and (III) Business Proposal. Acceptable formats for all sections of the proposal are listed below: Text Documents Slides Spreadsheets Project Documents     Acceptable Formats Microsoft Word 2007 compatible Microsoft PowerPoint 2007 compatible Microsoft Excel 2007 compatible Microsoft Project 2007 compatible Font Size: 12pt Font Size: At least 9 pt Font Size: At least 9 pt Font Size: At least 9 pt

Paper Size: Proposal shall be prepared for standard 8-1/2" X 11" paper, single-spaced. Font Type: Times New Roman Tables, Charts, Figures, and Graphics Size: Font size must be no smaller than 9 pt. Indexing: Each volume shall be organized such that an extensive search of required documents is not necessary to review the proposal.

1.1 Page Limits Volume I Solicitation, Offer, Award and Representation/Certification do not have a page limitation. Volume II Technical Proposal shall be no more than (15) fifteen pages total. Volume III Business Proposal shall be no more than (10) ten pages total in limit. Past Performance information shall be included in Volume II and does not count towards the page limitation. The page limitation is based on the number of pages when printed single-spaced on 8 ˝" x 11" paper with a 1" margin in 12-point font size. Font size used in figures and tables can be 9-point or higher as long as the content is legible. Each Past Performance reference will be no longer than 2 pages each. Proposed Key Personnel resumes will be no longer than 2 pages each, and will not be included in the overall page count. Pages in excess of the identified limitation may, at the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer, be removed from further evaluation. The following items are excluded from the page limit: 1. Transmittal letter 2. Title Page 3. Executive Summary 4. Proposal Table of Contents 5. Security Requirements (NIST/FISMA and 504 and 508 compliance) 6. Representations and Certifications (To be completed, in its entirety, with all fill-ins, by Offeror) 88

2.0 Submission of Proposals All correspondence, questions, and proposal submissions regarding this solicitation shall be directed to both the Government's Points of Contact (POC) identified below: Murthlyn Samuel Contracting Officer 830 First Street, N.E. Suite UCP-91J5 Washington, DC 20202 Phone: (202) 377-3237 Email: murthlyn.samuel@ed.gov Julia Jones Contract Specialist 830 First Street, N.E. Suite UCP-92A4 Washington, DC 20202 Phone: (202) 377-4263 Email: julia.jones@ed.gov

Offerors shall submit questions requesting clarification of solicitation requirements via email to Government's Points of Contact identified above no later than March 19, 2013 12:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST). Questions submitted shall state the question, identify the related section of the solicitation, page number and as applicable identify the Offeror's proposed interpretation or response. FSA cannot guarantee that questions received after this closing date will be answered. The proposal due date is no later than March 29, 2013 at 12:00PM EST. The proposal submission shall be made electronically via e-mail to the Government Points of Contact listed above. If size limitations are of concern, please contact the Government Points of Contact listed above to discuss. Proposal responses shall be submitted as follows: 2.1 Solicitation, Offer, Award and Representation/Certifications - Volume I The proposal shall include a cover letter that identifies all enclosures being transmitted as part of the proposal. The letter shall reference the solicitation number. The proposal shall include a complete and signed Standard Form (SF) 1449. Blocks 12, 17, 23, 24, and 30 of page 1 of SF 1449 will be completed by Offeror and Block 30 shall be signed to show that the Offeror has read and agrees to comply with all the conditions and instructions provided in the solicitation document. In accordance with FAR 4.1201 Representations and Certifications, prospective contractors shall complete electronic annual representations and certifications at ORCA accessed via https://www.acquisition.gov in conjunction with the required registration in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database (see FAR 4.1102). Each Offeror shall include a dated and signed statement affirming current CCR registration and ORCA registration. Offerors shall complete Section VII. Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors, in its entirety, with all fill-ins, by Offeror. Offerors shall include in their proposal a response to the following question: If given the option, what level and type of transition support would your organization prefer to receive from the incumbent vendor? 2.2 Technical Proposal ­ Volume II The Technical Proposal shall include all information necessary for the Government to understand the Offeror's proposed Technical/Management Capability. No pricing information shall be included in the Technical Proposal. The inclusion of price information in the Technical Proposal submitted may result in rejection of that proposal.

89

Offeror shall provide information to substantiate their organization's experience providing collection services for a minimum of 200,000 defaulted Title IV borrowers (unique concurrent borrower total at any time over the past 3 years). Offerors should provide at least one reference, or only as many as needed to demonstrate the minimum threshold stated herein. Title IV reference of defaulted borrowers can be found at: http://studentaid.ed.gov/repay-loans/default. The references provided should include the following information: Lender Name Project Name Description of Effort Number of Borrowers Serviced and Total Outstanding Balance Point of Contact (Name, Title, Organization, Mailing Address, Telephone, and Email) Dates of Performance *-Copies of sources used as validation for proposed experience should be provided to the Government. These will not count towards the total page limit for this submission. Offeror shall describe show how their organization's prior experience helps to demonstrate their ability to manage the Governments' defaulted Title IV portfolio. The description shall address, at a minimum:  Plans to ramp up current operations to successfully service an additional 4.2 million defaulted Title IV borrowers and as many as an estimated 10M over the life of the contract;  How prior development experience positions the Offeror to successfully operate, update, develop and maintain the Government's default management system. The Government's default management system currently utilizes the COTS product Titanium ORE as its core software application; and  Plans to transition large data centers, major document vault/correspondence centers and call center operations (consult requirements for current data center, vault and call metrics). Offerors must also submit past performance references, along with relevant information that demonstrates their customer's satisfaction (e.g., customer satisfaction survey results, etc.) with the services rendered in regards to managing defaulted portfolios. Only recent experience (within the last (3) three years) will be considered. Past performance references shall describe the Offeror's success in operating, updating, developing and maintaining COTS-based systems, including code development around that COTS-based system. Past performance references shall describe the Offeror's success in operating a contact center and providing comparable backoffice processes/tasks. Reference information shall include: reference Point of Contact name, email, phone number, etc.; a way to identify the work performed like the title of the project; a description of the work performed; the period of performance; and the estimated contract value. 2.3 Business Proposal - Volume III The Business Proposal shall include all information necessary for the Government to understand the Offeror's proposed pricing schedule. Offerors shall submit adequate information to support their pricing tables. The supporting information shall contain sufficient detail to enable the Government to evaluate whether the proposed price/cost is consistent with the Offeror's technical proposal. The Government intends to request additional pricing information in Phase II. At a minimum Price/Cost proposal shall include: 1) Completion of Table 1 in Section B inclusive of price/cost for Base and all Option periods 2) Completion of Table 2 in section B inclusive of price/cost for Base and all Option periods 90

The Government is considering several Pricing Schedule structures for this procurement. This allows Offerors to propose CLIN prices and schedules that more accurately reflect providing services in accordance with the Statement of Work. Tables 3 and 4 are Optional. Offerors may also include a tiered pricing structure (e.g. (110,000); (10,001 ­ 20,000) etc.) based on unique borrower status and price/cost for the Base and Option Periods in addition to the mandatory information. VI. EVALAUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD A. FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation - Commercial Items (JAN 1999) (a) Only Offerors selected in Phase I of this two-phase solicitation process will be provided a copy of the solicitation amendment for Phase II, and only those Offerors selected in Phase I will be permitted to submit an offer in Phase II. Selection in Phase I of this solicitation does not constitute, nor guarantee, a contract award. The Government will select responsible Offerors to participate in Phase II solicitation to whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following constitutes the evaluation factors on which Offerors will be selected for consideration for Phase II of this solicitation process. Failure to meet the Go-No Go Factor will result in immediate removal from further consideration for Phase II. Failure of Offeror's proposal to be deemed technically acceptable when considering Factors 2, 3, and 4 will also result in removal from further consideration for Phase II. The following factors will be used to evaluate offers:  Factor 1: Go/No-Go  Factor 2: Technical/Management Capability  Factor 3: Past Performance  Factor 4: Price/Cost Go/No-Go is more important than Technical/Management Capability, Past Performance and Price/Cost. When combined, Technical/Management Capability and Past Performance are more important than Price/Cost. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful Offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. B. FAR Clause 52.217-5 Title Evaluation of Options Date (JUL 1990)

C. Proposal Evaluation Criteria The following constitutes the evaluation factors on which Offerors will be selected by the Government for consideration during Phase I of this solicitation process. Failure to meet the Go-No Go Factor will result in immediate removal from further consideration for Phase II. Failure of Offeror's proposal to be deemed technically acceptable when considering Factors 2, 3, and 4 will also result in removal from further consideration for Phase II. 91

The Government will evaluate Offeror's proposal submission based on the following: Factor 1: Go/No-Go ­ Collection services for a minimum of 200,000 defaulted Title IV borrowers The Offeror's ability to provide information to support their capability and experience providing collection services for a minimum of 200,000 defaulted Title IV borrowers. Factor 2: Technical/Management Capability The Technical/Management Capability Factor assesses the ability of the Offeror to effectively demonstrate the knowledge, understanding, and technical ability to meet the requirements in the SOW as required in the RFP. The Offeror's ability to describe how their organization's prior experience helps to demonstrate their capability to manage the Governments' defaulted Title IV portfolio. The description shall address, at a minimum:  Plans to ramp up current operations to successfully service an additional 4.2 million defaulted Title IV borrowers and as many as an estimated 10M over the life of the contract;  How prior development experience positions the Offeror to successfully operate, update, develop and maintain the Government's default management system. The Government's default management system currently utilizes the COTS product Titanium ORE as its core software application; and  Plans to transition large data centers, major document vault/correspondence centers and call center operations (consult requirements for current data center, vault and call metrics). Factor 3: Past Performance The Past Performance Factor evaluation will assess the relevance and breadth of the Offeror's experience and the quality of the Offeror's past performance. The Government is seeking to determine whether the Offeror has experience that will enhance its technical capability to perform and whether the Offeror consistently delivers quality services in a timely and cost effective manner. The Government reserves the right to use relevant past performance information it obtains through other sources (e.g., interviews with previous clients/customers of the contractor and/or other agency databases, etc.). Only recent experience (within the last (3) three years) will be considered in this evaluation. The assessment will include the following areas: Relevance of Experience:  The degree of relevance to the requirements of the RFP on the basis of similarity in size, scope, complexity, technical difficulty, contract type, and period of performance. Quality of Services:  The Offeror's record of providing high quality services of a similar nature in a manner that ensures maximum accuracy throughout cost effectiveness and overall client satisfaction.  The Offeror's record of providing quality reports and documentation (e.g., accurate, current, and complete). Schedule:  The Offeror's ability to adhere to schedules established in the Contract/Task Order.  The Offeror's ability to provide a timely response to technical directions. Factor 4: Price The Offeror's Price/Cost proposal will be evaluated with respect to the following factors: Price Realism - Price proposal will be evaluated to ensure that the proposed prices reflect a clear understanding of the work and skills required for contract performance. Price Reasonableness - Price proposal will be evaluated to ensure that proposed prices are consistent with industry standards for similar requirements, and are not excessive in comparison to such standards. 92

VII. REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS A. FAR 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications- Commercial Items (DEC 2012) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; 93

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more servicedisabled veterans; and 94

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at 95

FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. 96

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 97

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.)

98

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- 99

Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product."

Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ 100

______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 101

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. 102

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) o Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 103

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. 104

o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local); o Foreign government; o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- 105

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) B. 52.209-5 Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (APR 2010) (a)(1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that-- (i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals-- (A) Are o are not o presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (B) Have o have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property (if offeror checks "have", the offeror shall also see 52.209-7, if included in this solicitation); 106

(C) Are o are not o presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; (D) Have o, have not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (2) Examples. (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. § 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. § 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. § 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (ii) The Offeror has o has not o, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency. (2) "Principal," for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 107

(c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror's responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. (d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. (e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. (End of provision) C. 52.209-7 Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (FEB 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). "Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: 108

(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision) D. 52.233-2 Service of Protest SEP 2006 (a) Protests, as defined in section 31.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Federal Student Aid Attn: Murthlyn Samuel 830 First St. N.E Suite 91J5 Washington, DC 20202 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision) E. EDAR 3415.302­70 Two-phase source selection. (a) FSA--May utilize a two-phase process to solicit offers and select a source for award. The contracting officer can choose to use this optional method of solicitation when deemed beneficial to the FSA in meeting its needs as a PBO. (b) Phase One. 109

(1) The contracting officer must publish a notice in accordance with FAR 5.2, except that the notice must include limited information as specified in 3405.207. (2) Information Submitted by Offerors. Each offeror must submit basic information such as the offeror's qualifications, the proposed conceptual approach, costs likely to be associated with the approach, and past performance data, together with any additional information requested by the contracting officer. (3) Selection for participating in second phase. The contracting officer must select the offerors that are eligible to participate in the second phase of the process. The contracting officer must limit the number of the selected offerors to the number of sources that the contracting officer determines is appropriate and in the best interests of the Federal government. (c) Phase Two. (1) The contracting officer must conduct the second phase of the source selection consistent with FAR 15.2 and 15.3, except as provided by 3405.207. (2) Only sources selected in the first phase will be eligible to participate in the second phase. F. EDAR 3452.209.70 Conflict of Interest Certification (MAR 2011) (a)(1) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, by signing the form in this clause, certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances that could give rise to an organizational or personal conflict of interest, (see FAR Subpart 9.5 for organizational conflicts of interest) (or apparent conflict of interest), for the organization or any of its staff, and that the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has disclosed all such relevant information if such a conflict of interest appears to exist to a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts (or if such a person would question the impartiality of the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant). Conflicts may arise in the following situations: (i) Unequal access to information. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has access to nonpublic information through its performance on a government contract. (ii) Biased ground rules. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant has worked, in one government contract, or program, on the basic structure or ground rules of another government contract. (iii) Impaired objectivity. A potential contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant, or member of their immediate family (spouse, parent, or child) has financial or other interests that would impair, or give the appearance of impairing, impartial judgment in the evaluation of government programs, in offering advice or recommendations to the government, or in providing technical assistance or other services to recipients of Federal funds as part of its contractual responsibility. ``Impaired objectivity'' includes but is not limited to the following situations that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question a person's objectivity: (A) Financial interests or reasonably foreseeable financial interests in or in connection with products, property, or services that may be purchased by an educational agency, a person, organization, or institution in the course of implementing any program administered by the Department; (B) Significant connections to teaching methodologies or approaches that might require or encourage the use of specific products, property, or services; or (C) Significant identification with pedagogical or philosophical viewpoints that might require or encourage the use of a specific curriculum, specific products, property, or services. (2) Offerors must provide the disclosure described above on any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) regardless of their opinion that such a conflict or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) would not impair their objectivity. 110

(3) In a case in which an actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) is disclosed, the Department will take appropriate actions to eliminate or address the actual or potential conflict, including but not limited to mitigating or neutralizing the conflict, when appropriate, through such means as ensuring a balance of views, disclosure with the appropriate disclaimers, or by restricting or modifying the work to be performed to avoid or reduce the conflict. In this clause, the term ``potential conflict'' means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. (b) The contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees that if ``impaired objectivity'', or an actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) is discovered after the award is made, it will make a full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions that the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest). (c) Remedies. The Government may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. If the contractor was aware of a potential conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the contracting officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. These remedies include imprisonment for up to five years for violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 and fines of up to $5000 for violation of 31 U.S.C. 3802. Further remedies include suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal government. The contractor may also be required to reimburse the Department for costs the Department incurs arising from activities related to conflicts of interest. An example of such costs would be those incurred in processing Freedom of Information Act requests related to a conflict of interest. (d) In cases where remedies short of termination have been applied, the contractor, subcontractor, employee, or consultant agrees to eliminate the organizational conflict of interest, or mitigate it to the satisfaction of the contracting officer. (e) The contractor further agrees to insert in any subcontract or consultant agreement hereunder, provisions that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including specific mention of potential remedies and this paragraph (e). (f) Conflict of Interest Certification. The offeror, [insert name of offeror], hereby certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, there are no present or currently planned interests (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) relating to the work to be performed under the contract or task order resulting from Request for Proposal No. [insert number] that would create any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflicts of interest) (including conflicts of interest for immediate family members: spouses, parents, children) that would impinge on its ability to render impartial, technically sound, and objective assistance or advice or result in it being given an unfair competitive advantage. In this clause, the term ``potential conflict'' means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. The offeror further certifies that it has and will continue to exercise due diligence in identifying and removing or mitigating, to the Government's satisfaction, such conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest). Offeror's Name __________________ RFP/Contract No. _________________ Signature ___________________ Title __________________ Date __________________ (End of Provision) 111

G. ED 3452.239-71 Notice to Offerors of Department Security Requirements (MAR 2011) (a) The offeror and any of its future subcontractors will have to comply with Department security policy requirements as set forth in the ``Bidder's Security Package: Security Requirements for Contractors Doing Business with the Department of Education'' at: http://www.ed.gov/fund/contract/about/bsp.html. (b) All contractor employees must undergo personnel security screening if they will be employed for 30 days or more, in accordance with Departmental Directive OM:5­101, ``Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings,'' available at: http://www.ed.gov/fund/contract/about/acs/acsom5101.doc. (c) The offeror shall indicate the following employee positions it anticipates to employ in performance of this contract and their proposed risk levels based on the guidance provided in Appendix I of Departmental Directive OM:5­101: High Risk (HR): [Specify HR positions.]. Moderate Risk (MR): [Specify MR positions.]. Low Risk (LR): [Specify LR positions.]. (d) In the event the Department disagrees with a proposed risk level assignment, the issue shall be subject to negotiation. However, if no agreement is reached, the Department's risk level assignment shall be used. The type of screening and the timing of the screening will depend upon the nature of the contractor position, the type of data to be accessed, and the type of information technology (IT) system access required. Personnel security screenings will be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm the individual could cause. (End of Provision)

112

