<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FOPM2613Q0088.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FOPM2613Q0088.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>OPM2613Q0088 Page 1 of 56

COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION
This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. The solicitation number is OPM2613Q0088 and is issued as a Request for Quote (RFQ). This solicitation document incorporates all mandatory commercial item provisions and clauses that are in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular (FAC) 2005-64 dated January 18, 2013. The North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code is 611430 and the small business size standard is $10.0 million. This procurement is set-aside exclusively for small businesses, allowing only a small business to submit proposals. The U.S. Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) Center for Leadership Development (CLD) provides high quality leadership and management development for supervisors, managers and executives across the Federal government through both multi-agency and single-agency designed courses. OPM has established two leadership institutes, the Federal Executive Institute in Charlottesville (FEI), Virginia, and the Management Development Center's (MDC's) with locations in Shepherdstown, West Virginia and Aurora, Colorado. OPM also offers courses at the OPM Headquarters in Washington, D.C. and at other locations. As a Federal business enterprise, CLD provides services that assist Federal agencies in achieving their missions by providing competency-based leadership programs to build great leaders for great government. In support of its mission, OPM needs to acquire a vendor to design, develop, and deliver (2) Developing Customer-Focused Organizations seminars to be held at the MDCs. OPM intends to award (1) Firm-fixed Price purchase order to the offeror that represents the best value to the government. The offeror shall provide all labor, incidental materials, and other services necessary to render services under the resulting contract, see Statement of Objectives (SOO) detailed below. The period of performance is listed in the SOO below. Offerors are invited to submit their quotations to OPM Contracting in response to this notice by 12:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST), February 15, 2013. Only e-mailed requests for additional information will be accepted at Shannon.Kennedy@opm.gov through 10:00 AM EST, February 8, 2013. Quotations submitted in response to this notice shall include the solicitation number in the subject line and be signed, dated and submitted via email to Shannon.Kennedy@opm.gov.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 2 of 56 Technical and Pricing proposals MUST be in two separate files. If your technical and price proposal is not submitted in two separate files, your response to this solicitation will be considered non-responsive and will not be given any further consideration. Each of the parts shall be separate and complete, so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of and concurrently with the evaluation of the others. All communications shall be directed to the attention of: Name: Shannon G. Kennedy Title: Contracting Officer Telephone: 304-870-8065 Email: Shannon.Kennedy@opm.gov NOTE: COMMUNICATIONS WITH OFFICIALS OTHER THAN THE OPM CONTRACTING OFFICER INDICATED ABOVE, MAY COMPROMISE THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THIS ACQUISITION AND RESULT IN THE CANCELLATION OF THE SOLICITATION AND/OR EXCLUSION OF YOUR PROPOSAL FROM THIS SOLICITATION. Vendors not registered in the System for Award Management at the time the requirement is anticipated to be awarded will not be considered. Vendors may register with SAM by accessing www.sam.gov. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES 1. BACKGROUND: The U.S. Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) Center for Leadership Development (CLD) provides high quality leadership and management development for supervisors, managers and executives across the Federal government through both multi-agency and single-agency designed courses. OPM has established two leadership institutes, the Federal Executive Institute in Charlottesville (FEI), Virginia, and the Management Development Center's (MDC's) with locations in Shepherdstown, West Virginia and Aurora, Colorado. OPM also offers courses at the OPM Headquarters in Washington, D.C. and at other locations. As a Federal business enterprise, CLD provides services that assist Federal agencies in achieving their missions by providing competency-based leadership programs to build great leaders for great government. Developing Customer-Focused Organizations (DCFO) is one of the CLD skill immersion programs and the only one dedicated to understanding and developing citizen-centered government.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 3 of 56 2. SCOPE: In support of its mission, OPM needs to acquire (1) vendor to design, develop, and deliver (2) Developing Customer-Focused Organizations seminars to be held at the Eastern Management Development Center (EMDC) and the Western Management Development Center (WMDC). The target audience is federal managers, project leaders or others who are accountable for improving customer service in their agencies. Participants in these courses will be from a variety of Federal agencies, both civilian and defense. Maximum class size for each class is 35 participants. This course supports the development of the following OPM competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Developing Others, Public Service Motivation, and Strategic Thinking. These competencies are part of the OPM Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) which are used as indicators of leadership success in the federal government. For more information on the ECQs please see http://www.leadership.opm.gov/. 3. APPLICABLE CONDITIONS:    All respondents must have an active role in the preparation, management and delivery of the program. OPM shall have full discretion and rights to use and modify the winning design(s) as it deems appropriate for use in the Federal government. Once a class session is completed, the contractor may not keep any participant information, in any form or database o Any participant contact information provided to the contractor by OPM, must be deleted or destroyed within 10 business days following the class session. o Any participant information (e.g., assessment/instrument reports, background information, other pre-work, etc.) collected by the contractor must be deleted or destroyed within 10 business days following the class session, noted by a confirming message to the Contracting Officer postdisposal.

4. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED MATERIAL/INFORMATION: The Government shall provide the following:    One fully equipped classroom and five breakout rooms, if necessary; General classroom supplies and equipment, such as pens, notebooks, flip charts, audio and visual equipment; Participant rosters and tent cards;

OPM2613Q0088 Page 4 of 56    Textbooks and other learning tools as deemed appropriate by the contractor and the COR; Printing and assembly of notebooks for all enrolled participants; other printing as needed such as handouts, posters, etc; Post-course evaluation tool.

5. SUMMARY OF REQUIREMENTS: The contractor(s) shall be required to design and deliver (2) DCFO courses. The contractor shall provide the following for the 4.5 day course:     Course design that includes any recommended assessments, tools, and other resources as appropriate to meet the learning objectives/expected outcomes. Course development, including the submission of participant materials ready for reproduction Qualified faculty for course delivery Visiting Program Director to facilitate the entire course

An agenda for the most recent offering of this course is Attachment #1. The agenda is purely illustrative ­ the vendor should propose different topics and emphases if they support the course outcomes and are based on current research. The course must begin at 8:30 AM on Monday and end at 1:00 PM on Friday. Each day begins at 8:30 AM and ends at 4:30 PM. The vendor shall provide an initial design as a response to this solicitation, and shall collaborate with OPM staff on refining and adjusting the design in accordance with OPM's instructions. The vendor shall provide qualified instructors for each module in the course who have a combination of subject matter expertise and demonstrated effectiveness with federal audiences. The vendor shall also provide a Visiting Program Director who will be present for the duration of the course, open and close each session, interact with participants to ensure their classroom needs are met, coordinate with OPM staff on course logistics, and represent OPM at all times. The Visiting Program Director may also deliver content for one or modules if they have the expertise and experience required. The learning objectives/expected outcomes from the course are:       Increased appreciation for the importance of a customer focus in government and identification of agency customers Recognition of the critical elements of customer relationships and customer loyalty Ability to develop valid and useful performance measures for customer service Link customer satisfaction and employee engagement Review of current Administration initiatives for customer engagement An individual blueprint for a strategic plan that integrates all course content

OPM2613Q0088 Page 5 of 56 Please note the following requirements for the course design:       A learning design that uses adult learning principles, is appropriate for the intended target audience, and meets the learning outcomes. Design elements (learning content, instructional strategies, technologies, and context) are integrated and complementary to each other. Appropriate opportunities for interaction, peer networking and learning transfer. Instructional strategies address both content learning and application of skills. The learning design reflects a government-to-government and interagency context. Course materials are accessible to and usable by learners in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

The contractor must demonstrate: Knowledge of Federal government strategic planning and customer engagement initiatives  Experience in the design, development, and delivery of training programs for Federal employees or in equivalent academic or other adult learning environments.  Knowledge and experience in managing and leading in the Federal government, evidenced by former Federal employee status or relevant academic or consulting experience in the Federal environment.  A Bachelor's degree is required. 6. DELIVERABLES: The contractor(s) shall provide all management, supervision, labor, materials, supplies and equipment (except as otherwise specified); and shall plan, schedule, coordinate, and assure the efficient delivery of (2) DCFO courses. These services shall be in accordance with specifications stated in the Summary of Requirements and include, but are not limited to the following: 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 Consult with OPM program staff to discuss course design and content. Deliver a final outline of course content, instructional strategies, resources (books, assessments, articles, etc.), and approved staffing plan. Submit all course materials for reproduction no later than 4 weeks prior to course start date Deliver (2) DCFO courses per Summary of Requirements. Participate in post-course consultation with the OPM staff after each delivery to provide feedback, discuss outcomes, and recommend content adjustments. 

OPM2613Q0088 Page 6 of 56 7. COPYRIGHTED MATERIALS It is the responsibility the Contractor to comply with copyrighted material laws, rules and regulations for materials they use in the performance of this contract. This includes the marking of materials and obtaining permissions to use copyrighted material. If the Contractor has developed material independent of OPM requirement and is recommending use of that material in a proposed course or program, then the Contractor is granting OPM the right to use, reproduce and distribute the material for either; a) the specific course and specific date; or b) the specific course and a specific range of time. All materials will be marked accordingly. Use of the materials for a different course and/or different time period will be negotiated separately. Contractor proposing to use other materials that have third-party copyright restrictions are responsible for obtaining the proper permissions to use and reproduce that material the material. The Contractor will also be responsible for ensuring the material is properly marked prior to copies being made. If a Contractor is tasked with developing or improving course materials while under a service call, then OPM has exclusive rights to any and all of that work, including improvements and developments created by the Contractor as a result of performing services. Materials will be marked accordingly. [Note that if OPM requests the contractor to modify materials, the materials should be marked accordingly with a note to indicate "modified by Full Name, May XX, 201X, as requested by OPM."] Contractors may not claim or otherwise use materials, courses or programs developed under this contract for their own use without express approval from OPM. For information and/or materials that are considered common property, has no original author, or was first created by an OPM staff member in the scope of their employment, the work is to be considered "in the public domain." Contractors and OPM may not assert any proprietary rights to the document and no special markings are necessary. If use of third-party proprietary materials requires the contractor to be certified in the use of such materials, the contractor will be required to provide proof that they hold a current certification. Note that service providers also need to make sure that e-copies of course materials are available and marked accordingly for use in any OPM e-learning platform, when applicable. 8. PURCHASE OF MATERIALS Where the contractor is required to provide program/class materials, such materials are subject to OPM's approval. The contractor shall be conscientious in limiting the extent of these types of purchases to the absolute numbers and the lowest costs appropriate to achieving desired learning outcomes. 9. PACKAGING Program/class materials must be packaged and packed for shipment in such a manner that will ensure acceptance by common carriers and safe delivery at destination. Containers and closures shall comply with the Interstate Commerce Commission regulations, Uniform Freight Classification Rules, National Motor Freight Classification, or

OPM2613Q0088 Page 7 of 56 regulations of other carriers as applicable to the mode of transportation. Mark deliverables as follows: Eastern Management Development Center (EMDC) 239 Lowe Drive Shepherdstown, WV 25443 OR Western Management Development Center (WMDC) 3151 South Vaughn Way, Suite #300 Aurora, CO 80014 10. BRANDING Material produced for use in OPM courses should be branded to reflect the OPM organization hosting/sponsoring the developmental opportunity. Specific logos and slogans will be provided to the contractor upon contract award. In no instance may a contracted curriculum developer or supplier include organizational advertisements or contact information, or otherwise market their organization or services to OPM participants. Such marketing and/or advertising by contracted personnel is expressly forbidden within the confines of OPM learning environments. 11. TRAVEL

Travel by air shall be negotiated at a fair and reasonable price, not to exceed coach fare. The costs for lodging, meals, and incidental expenses incurred by contractor personnel shall be considered to be reasonable and allowable to the extent they do not exceed, on a daily basis, the per diem rates set forth in the Federal Travel Regulations (FTR). The Travel by privately owned vehicle shall be at the current GSA approved mileage rate. Traveling expenses for Faculty living within a 35 mile radius of the training site will not be reimbursed. The contractor will be reimbursed for their actual travel expenses incurred, in accordance with the FTR. If the Contractor incurs travel costs in excess of the amount negotiated and agreed upon for each task order, it is at the contractor's own expense. 12. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE The Period of Performance will be approximately (9) months (3 month base period and up to 6 one-month periods) from the date of award.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 8 of 56 13. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE Course deliveries will be located at the Eastern Management Development Center (EMDC) at 239 Lowe Drive, Shepherdstown, WV, 25443 and the Western Management Development Center (WMDC) at 3151 South Vaughn Way, Suite #300, Aurora, CO, 80014. Other locations may be used during the period of performance. OPM reserves the right to change locations. List of known Delivery Dates and Locations DATE APRIL 29 ­ MAY 3, 2013 AUGUST 26 ­ 30, 2013 LOCATION EMDC WMDC

OPM reserves the right to add, cancel, or adjust dates. The contractor shall indicate availability for each of these dates in the technical proposal. 14. AWARD TYPE The Government intends to award (1) Firm Fixed Price purchase order as a result of this solicitation. 15. QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN: A. Background: The quality assurance surveillance plan (QASP) describes how OPM shall monitor and evaluate contractor performance. This QASP describes in more detail how services will be evaluated and the consequences of performance below requirements. Contractor performance will be evaluated by OPM staff, customers, and participants attending the course or program. OPM performance scores are established each year in it performance plans. The success of OPM programs therefore is directly linked to the success of contractors providing or assisting OPM faculty and staff in the design and/or delivery of programs and services. B. Purpose: The QASP describes the general level of performance that will be acceptable for each type of service listed in the solicitation. Specific performance objectives and conditions will vary according to the service delivery agreements negotiated with OPM customers. C. Roles and Responsibilities of Contracting Officer and Contracting Officers Representative (COR) and OPM staff: The OPM Contracting Officer will award the contract for services to contractor(s) that best meet OPM requirements. The contract will include the specific services to be provided by the contractor, the location for delivery of service, the time and dates for the services, and the agreed to or set price to be paid. The COR will provide on-site instruction to the contractor as needed and will monitor the delivery of courses or programs or observe the delivery of other services. Contractor

OPM2613Q0088 Page 9 of 56 flexibility in making adjustments in delivery of services is required and expected. Changes in the requirements of staff and customers may occur and may result in cancellation of an order and/or rescheduling of services. These changes will be communicated to the contractor by the COR or OPM staff managing the activity. D. Acceptable Quality Levels and how performance will be measured: Deliverable Performance Acceptable Monitoring Standard Quality Level Method (AQL) Participate in preMeeting Deadline met; Meeting planning meeting conducted in a Contractor(s) submittal with OPM Program timely manner facilitates date; Director within five meeting. evaluation of days of receipt of the quality award. and content of the meeting by COR. Deliver an outline of Delivered within Outline Receipt of course content, 10 work days of includes outline by recommended initial learning OPM staff. instructional consultation. objectives for strategies, course each module materials, and and recommended instructional instructors strategies Submit all required All proofread Materials are Email receipt participant materials course materials grammatically by OPM staff for reproduction are delivered no correct and later than 4 have no weeks prior to substantial course delivery errors. Deliver (2) DCFO No less than a No less than a Metrics that courses per Summary 4.0 evaluation on 4.0 evaluation MattersŠ of Requirements a 5 point scale on a 5 point evaluation for evaluation scale evaluation all Faculty assessment assessment and course and/or positive and/or positive content / feedback from feedback from material any attending any attending OPM Faculty OPM Faculty Participate in a postMeeting Meeting Scheduled delivery conference conducted in a conducted meeting call or meeting with timely manner within 20 days OPM Program of course Director to discuss delivery. observations and

Incentive/Price Reduction Positive/ Negative Performance Evaluation

Positive/ Negative Performance Evaluation

Positive/ Negative Performance Evaluation

Positive/ Negative Performance Evaluation

Positive/ Negative Performance Evaluation

OPM2613Q0088 Page 10 of 56 potential changes to future deliveries E. End of Service Debriefing and Evaluation of Services: The OPM staff will meet with contractors following the delivery of a program or service or when a debriefing can be mutually arranged to discuss the contractor's performance. The review will cover services delivered, the reactions of program participants, faculty and staff and other comments of relevance to satisfactory performance. The purpose of the program debrief is to improve the quality of services, establish better understanding of expectations for services, modify service to better meet future requirements, and determine suitability of the contractor for future work. F. Termination or Succession of contract: The Contracting Officer upon the recommendations of the COR may not request further services from contractors that do not meet quality performance levels based on degree of negative feedback received from observers of the service, program staff, and/or client agency. G. Contracting Officers Representative (COR) and Evaluation Staff: The evaluation of service is most important to OPM. Input for performance evaluations will be actively sought by the COR and OPM staff that are part of the service area and have contact with the service provider. The customer or client agency will play an important part in the evaluation process. Technical knowledge, delivery of service, strong interpersonal skills and ability to effectively communicate with and get along with customers, faculty, and staff are critical aspects of quality service that are measured by the evaluation staff. 16. LIST OF ATTACHMENTS: Attachment #1: Sample DCFO agenda (1) OPM SPECIFIC CLAUSES On-Site Working Conditions (July 2005)

1752.200-70

(a) OPM facilities are smoking restricted workplaces. Due to the nature of the work, facilities, and requirements, contractor staff may only smoke outside in designated smoking areas. (b) Normal operating hours are 7:00 am to 5:30 pm, Monday through Friday. Meeting task objectives within specific timeframes may require the working of extended/overtime hours. Any extended hours must be authorized in advance, and certified as worked by the task Government Project Manager(s). (c) Government personnel observe the following days as holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King's Birthday January 1 * Third Monday in January

OPM2613Q0088 Page 11 of 56 President's Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Third Monday in February Last Monday in May July 4* First Monday in September Second Monday in October November 11 Fourth Thursday in November December 25*

* If the date falls on a Saturday, the Government holiday is the preceding Friday. If the date falls on a Sunday, the Government holiday is the following Monday. (d) In addition to the days designated as holidays, the Government observes the following days:  Any other day designated by Federal Statute  Any other day designated by Executive Order  Presidential Inauguration Day  Any other day designated by the President's Proclamation (e) It is understood and agreed between the Government and the Contractor that observance of such days by Government personnel shall not otherwise be a reason for an additional period of performance, or entitlement of compensation except as set forth within the contract. In the event the Contractor's personnel work during the holiday, they may be reimbursed by the Contractor, however, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, other than their normal compensation for the time worked. This provision does not preclude reimbursement for authorized overtime work if applicable to this contract. (f) When the Federal, State, Local or other Governmental entity grants excused absence to its employees, assigned Contractor personnel may also be dismissed. The Contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform critical tasks already in operation or scheduled, and must be guided by the instructions issued by the CO or COR. (g) If Government personnel are unavailable due to furlough or any other reason, the Contractor must contact the CO or the COR to receive direction. It is the Government's decision as to whether the contract price/cost will be affected. Generally, the following situations apply: (1) Contractor personnel who are able to continue contract performance (either on-site or at a site other than their normal workstation), must continue to work and the contract price shall not be reduced or increased. (2) Contractor personnel who are not able to continue contract performance (e.g., support functions) may be asked to cease their work effort. This may result in a reduction to the contract price.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 12 of 56 1752.204-70 Contractor Personnel Security Requirements (Jan 2008)

(a) The U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-05-24, referenced in paragraph (a) of FAR 52.204-9, Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel, is available on-line at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-24.pdf. (b) The Government may require security clearances for performance of this contract. The Contractor must obtain these clearances before beginning work on the contract (OPM will not allow Contractor employees without clearance in any of its facilities). The Contractor must obtain these clearances by using the eQIP system. If satisfactory security arrangements cannot be made with the Contractor, the required services must be obtained from other sources. (c) The level of classified access required will be indicated on DD-254 or other appropriate form incorporated into each request requiring access to classified information. Contractors are required to have background investigations for suitability if they occupy positions of trust (e.g., systems administration) even if they do NOT have access to classified information. (d) Necessary facility and/or staff clearances must be in place prior to start of work on the contract (e) Contractors are responsible for the security, integrity and appropriate authorized use of their systems interfacing with the Government and or used for the transaction of any and all Government business. The Government, through the Government's Contracting Officer, may require the use or modification of security and/or secure communications technologies related to Government systems access and use. (f) The Government, at its discretion, may suspend or terminate the access and/or use of any or all Government access and systems for conducting business with any/or all Contractors when a security or other electronic access, use or misuse issue gives cause for such action. The suspension or termination may last until such time as the Government determines that the situation has been corrected or no longer exists. 1752.205-70 Announcement of Contract Award (July 2006)

OPM complies with FAR 5.3, Synopses of Contract Awards, in terms of synopsizing and publicly announcing contract awards. These actions take place at the time of, and not before, the contract is awarded. Contract award, in this case, means signature of the contractual document by the Contracting Officer and forwarding of the contractual document to the contract awardee. If the contract awardee wishes to make a separate public announcement, the awardee must obtain the approval of the Contracting Officer prior to releasing the announcement, and must plan to make announcement only after the contract has been awarded.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 13 of 56 1752.209-70 Contractor Performance Capabilities (July 2005)

The Contractor must be capable of performing all the tasks described in the Statement of Work. The Government shall not be liable for any costs or other involvement in the purchase, repair, maintenance or replacement of Contractor items used to implement or comply with requirements of the contract. Likewise, the Government shall in no way be held accountable by the Contractor for the Contractor's inability to perform under this Contract due to Government technology implementations and or changes. 1752.209-71 Contractor's Key Personnel (July 2005)

(a) In order to ensure a smooth and orderly start up of work, it is essential that the key personnel specified in the Contractor's proposal be available on the effective date of the contract. If these personnel are not made available at that time, the Contractor must notify the Government Contracting Officer and show cause. If the Contractor does not show cause, the Contractor may be subject to default action. (b) The Contractor shall not of its own will remove or replace any personnel designated as "key" personnel without the written concurrence of the cognizant Contracting Officer. Prior to utilizing employees other than specified personnel, the Contractor shall notify the Government Contracting Officer and the COR. This notification must be no later than five (5) calendar days in advance of any proposed substitution and must include justification (including resume(s) of proposed substitution(s)) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on contract performance. (c) Substitute personnel qualifications must be equal to, or greater than, those of the personnel being substituted. If the Government Contracting Officer and the COR determine that the proposed substitute personnel is unacceptable, or that the reduction of effort would be so substantial as to impair the successful performance of the work under the contract, the Contractor may be subject to default action. If deemed necessary by the Government, substitute personnel must be given a one-(1) day orientation by Contractor personnel at no additional cost to the Government and with no change in the delivery schedule. (d) In the event that the performance of assigned Contractor personnel or any substitute(s) is determined by the Government to be unsatisfactory at any time during the life of the Contract, the Government reserves the right to request and receive satisfactory personnel replacement within five (5) calendar days of receipt by the Contractor of written notification. Notification will include the reason for requesting replacement personnel. (e) The Contractor-supplied personnel are employees of the Contractor and under the administrative control and supervision of the Contractor. The Contractor, through its personnel, shall perform the tasks prescribed herein. The Contractor must select,

OPM2613Q0088 Page 14 of 56 supervise, and exercise control and direction over its employees (including subcontractors) under this Contract. The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor in its performance of contractual services under this contract. The Contractor is accountable to the Government for the action of its personnel. (f) The Contractor is herewith notified that employee recruiting and employee retention practices shall be monitored on a regular basis. 1752.209-72 Qualifications of Contractor's Employees (July 2005)

The Contracting Officer may require dismissal from work of those employees which he/she deems incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued employment he/she deems contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security. The Contractor must fill out, and cause each of its employees on the contract work to fill out, for submission to the Government, such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons. Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor's employees must be fingerprinted. Each employee of the Contractor who works on this contract shall be a citizen of the United States of America, or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence as evidenced by Alien Registration Receipt Card Form 1-151, or who presents other evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service that employment will not affect his/her immigration status. 1752.209-73 Standards of Conduct (June 2006)

(a) Personnel assigned by the contractor to the performance of work under this order must be acceptable to the Government in terms of personal and professional conduct. Contractor personnel shall conform to standards of conduct as follows: (1) No contractor employees shall solicit new business while performing work under this order. (2) The contractor and its employees shall not discuss with unauthorized persons any information obtained in the performance of work under this order. (b) Should the continued assignment to work under this order of any person in the contractor's organization be deemed by the Contracting Officer to conflict with the interests of the Government, that person shall be removed immediately from assignment, and the reason for removal shall be fully documented in writing by the Contracting Officer. Employment and staffing difficulties shall not be justification for failure to meet established schedules, and if such difficulties impair performance, the contractor may be subject to default. 1752.209-74 Organizational Conflicts of Interest (July 2005)

(a) The Contractor warrants that, to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances which could give rise to an organizational conflict of interest (OCI), as defined in FAR 9.5, Organizational and

OPM2613Q0088 Page 15 of 56 Consultants Conflicts of Interest, or that the Contractor has disclosed all such relevant information. (b) The Contractor agrees that if an actual or potential OCI is discovered after award, the Contractor shall make a full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer. This disclosure must include a description of actions, which the Contractor has taken or proposes to take, after consultation with the Contracting Officer, to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict. (c) The Contracting Officer may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid an OCI. If the Contractor was aware of a potential OCI prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the Contacting Office, the Government may terminate the contract for default, debar the Contractor from Government contracting, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. (d) The Contractor must include this clause in all subcontracts and in lower tier subcontracts unless a waiver is requested from, and granted by, the Contracting Officer. (e) In the event that a requirement changes in such a way as to create a potential conflict of interest for the Contractor, the Contractor must: (1) Notify the Contracting Officer of a potential conflict, and; (2) Recommend to the Government an alternate approach which would avoid the potential conflict, or (3) Present for approval a conflict of interest mitigation plan that will: (i) Describe in detail the changed requirement that creates the potential conflict of interest; and (ii) Outline in detail the actions to be taken by the Contractor or the Government in the performance of the task to mitigate the conflict, division of subcontractor effort, and limited access to information, or other acceptable means. (4) The Contractor must not commence work on a changed requirement related to a potential conflict of interest until specifically notified by the Contracting Officer to proceed. (5) If the Contracting Officer determines that it is in the best interest of the Government to proceed with work, notwithstanding a conflict of interest, a request for waiver must be submitted in accordance with FAR 9.503. 1752.209-75 Reducing Text Messaging While Driving (Oct 2009)

(a) In accordance with Section 4 of the Executive Order, "Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While Driving," dated October 1, 2009, you are hereby encouraged to: (1) Adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving company-owned or -rented vehicles or Government-owned, -leased or ­rented vehicles,

OPM2613Q0088 Page 16 of 56 or while driving privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government; and (2) Consider new company rules and programs, and reevaluating existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and conducting education, awareness, and other outreach for company employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. These initiatives should encourage voluntary compliance with the company's text messaging policy while off duty. (b) For purposes of complying with the Executive Order:

(1) "Texting" or "Text Messaging" means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device, including for the purpose of SMS texting, emailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. (2) "Driving" means operating a motor vehicle on an active roadway with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light or stop sign, or otherwise. It does not include operating a motor vehicle with or without the motor running when one has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has halted in a location where one can safely remain stationary. 1752.222-70 (July 2005) Notice of Requirement for Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities

By signing this offer or contract, the contractor will be deemed to have signed and agreed to the provisions of Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Clause 52.222-21, Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities, incorporated by reference in this solicitation/contract. The certification provides that the bidder or offeror does not maintain or provide for its employees, facilities which are segregated on a basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, whether such facilities are segregated by directive or on a de facto basis. The certification also provides that the bidder/offeror does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained. FAR Clause 52.222-21 must be included in all subcontracts as well. 1752.222-71 Special Requirements for Employing Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (July 2005) (a) If this contract contains FAR Clause 52.222-35 (Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans), your company must comply with the requirements of this clause, including the listing of employment opportunities with the local office of the state employment service system. (b) If this contract contains FAR clauses 52.222-37 (Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans) or

OPM2613Q0088 Page 17 of 56 52.222-38 (Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements), you are reminded that your company must comply with the special reporting requirements described in those clauses. Your company must submit information on several aspects of its employment and hiring of special disabled and Vietnam era veterans or other veterans who served on active duty during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized. You must submit this information no later than September 30 of each year, in the "Federal Contractor Veterans' Employment Report" or VETS-100 Report. The U.S. Department of Labor has established a web site for submitting this report. The address is: http://www.vets100.cudenver.edu. 1752.223-71 Environmentally Preferable Products and Services (July 2005)

(a) Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, requires in agency acquisitions of goods and services (i) use of sustainable environmental practices, including acquisition of biobased, environmentally preferable, energy-efficient, water-efficient, and recycled-content products, and (ii) use of paper of at least 30 percent post-consumer fiber content. (b) By signing this offer or contract, the contractor will be deemed to have signed and agreed that all goods and services provided under this contract will comply with the above requirements of Executive Order 13423. 1752.224-70 (a) Protecting Personally Identifiable Information (Nov 2012)

Applicability

This clause applies to contractor personnel and addresses specific OPM requirements in addition to those included in the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a - the Act). The following should not be construed to alter or diminish civil and/or criminal liabilities provided under the Act. (b) Definition of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)

Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is information that can be used to discern or trace a person's identity, such as name, social security number, biometric records, and that combined with other information, can be used to compromise the integrity of agency records relating to a person, by permitting access to unauthorized disclosure of these records. For example, a name alone would generally not constitute PII, but when linked to his or her social security number, date of birth, or mother's maiden name, would constitute PII. In other words, PII refers to any information, on any medium, that identifies a specific individual whether the information is on paper or electronic. (c) Contract employees shall not remove PII from their individual assigned duty station without prior approval of their supervisor.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 18 of 56 (d) All contract employees are personally responsible for the proper handling of PII, regardless of location. All contract employees must be:   Responsible for the proper control and handling of PII residing on their computer, on removable media, and on paper documents. Responsible for ensuring portable data storage and communication devices are properly controlled and secured at all times and ensuring the use FIPS 140-2 compliant encryption to protect information stored on digital media during transport outside of OPM controlled areas. Responsible for ensuring PII data at rest is encrypted in contractor and government Cloud computing environments. Responsible for the proper marking, control and storage of printouts and other paper documents containing PII in their possession.

 

(e) OPM has a policy protecting, and when appropriate, restricting sending, copying or moving PII from the OPM network. Therefore, if the contract employees must send PII, it is the responsibility of the contractor to ensure the PII is not inadvertently disclosed to unauthorized individuals. PII must not be sent in the body of an email. Attachments containing PII must be encrypted. (f) IT Security Incident and PII Breach Protection and Notification

All security incidents that involve OPM information or information systems must be reported to the OPM Situation Room. Contractors must also report incidents to the OPM Contracting Officer. This reporting must occur immediately upon discovery of the incident. Incidents and breaches must be reported, even if it is believed the breach is limited, small, or insignificant. OPM's IT security experts will determine when a breach needs additional focus and attention. The OPM Situation Room is available 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Report the breach to the OPM Situation Room and the Contracting Officer either by phone or by e-mail; however, be sure NOT to include PII in the e-mail. 1. OPM contractors must report a breach or potential security breach to the OPM Situation Room at: sitroom@opm.gov, (202) 418-0111, Fax (202) 606-0624. 2. When notifying the Situation Room, copy the Contracting Officer. 3. If you have questions regarding these procedures, contact the Contracting Officer. 1752.224-71 Freedom of Information Act Requests (Sep 2009)

(a) Offerors are reminded that information furnished under this solicitation may be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Therefore: (1) All items that are confidential to business, or contain trade secrets, proprietary, or personnel information must be clearly marked in all documents submitted to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM or The Government). Marking of items will not necessarily preclude disclosure when the OPM determines disclosure is

OPM2613Q0088 Page 19 of 56 warranted by FOIA. However, if such items are not marked, all information contained within the submitted documents will be deemed to be releasable. (2) No later than five (5) business days after award of a contract, blanket purchase agreement (BPA), or order, the Contractor must provide OPM a redacted copy of the contract/BPA/order in electronic format. This copy will be used to satisfy any requests for copies of the contract/BPA/order under the FOIA. If the Contracting Officer believes that any redacted information does not require protection from public release, the issue will be resolved in accordance with paragraph 3.104-4(d) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) Any information made available to the Contractor by the Government must be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this contract and must not be divulged or made known in any manner to any person except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract. (c) In performance of this contract, the Contractor assumes responsibility for protection of the confidentiality of Government records and must ensure that all work performed by its subcontractors shall be under the supervision of the Contractor or the Contractor's responsible employees. (d) Each officer or employee of the Contractor or any of its subcontractors to whom any Government record may be made available or disclosed must be notified in writing by the Contractor that information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein, and that further disclosure of any such information, by any means, for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein, may subject the offender to criminal sanctions imposed by 19 U.S.C. 641. That section provides, in pertinent part, that whoever knowingly converts to their use or the use of another, or without authority, sells, conveys, or disposes of any record of the United States or whoever receives the same with intent to convert it to their use or gain, knowing it to have been converted, shall be guilty of a crime punishable by a fine of up to $10,000, or imprisoned up to ten years, or both. 1752.228-70 Insurance (July 2005)

(a) In accordance with FAR 52.228-5, "Insurance-Work on a Government Installation (JAN 1997)" incorporated by reference, the Contractor must secure, pay the premiums for and keep in force until the expiration of this contract, and any renewal thereof, adequate insurance of the types and in the amounts as specified under FAR 28.3. (b) Each policy of insurance must contain an endorsement that any cancellation or material change in the coverage adversely affecting the Government's interest must not be effective unless the insurer or the Contractor gives written notice of cancellation or change, as required by the CO. When the coverage is provided by self-insurance, the Contractor shall not change or decrease the coverage without the CO's prior approval.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 20 of 56 (c) A certificate of each policy of insurance must be furnished to the CO within ten (10) days after notice of award certifying, among other things, that the policy contains the aforementioned endorsement. The insurance company providing the above insurance must be satisfactory to the Government. Notices of policy changes shall be furnished to the CO. The substance of this clause must be made to flow down to any subcontractors. 1752.232-71 Method of Payment (July 2005)

(a) Payments under this contract will be made either by check or by wire transfer through the Treasury Financial Communications System at the option of the Government. (b) The Contractor must forward the following information in writing to the Contracting Officer not later than seven (7) days after receipt of notice of award: (1) Full Name (where practicable), title, telephone number, and complete mailing address of responsible official(s): (i) to whom check payments are to be sent, and (ii) who may be contacted concerning the bank account information requested below. (2) The following bank account information required to accomplish wire transfers: (i) Name, address, and telegraphic abbreviation of the receiving financial institution. (ii) Receiving financial institution's 9-digit American Bankers Association (ABA) identifying number for routing transfer of funds. (Provide this number only if the receiving financial institution has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System.) (iii) Recipient's name and account number at the receiving financial institution to be credited with the funds. If the receiving financial institution does not have access to the Federal Reserve Communications System, provide the name of the correspondent financial institution through which the receiving institution receives electronic funds transfer messages. If a correspondent financial institution is specified, also provide: (A) Address and telegraphic abbreviation of the correspondent financial institution. (B) The correspondent financial institution's 9-digit ABA identifying number for routing transfer of funds. (c) Any changes to the information furnished under paragraph (b) of this clause shall be furnished to the Contracting Officer in writing at least 30 days before the effective date of the change. It is the Contractor's responsibility to furnish these changes promptly to avoid payments to erroneous addresses or bank accounts. (d) The document furnishing the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) must be dated and contain the signature, title, and telephone number of the Contractor official authorized to provide it, as well as the Contractor's name and contract number

OPM2613Q0088 Page 21 of 56 1752.232-73 Small Business Invoice Requirements (October 2012)

(a) A proper invoice must include the following items (except for interim payments on cost reimbursement contracts for services): (1) Name and address of the contractor. (2) Invoice date and invoice number. (Contractors should date invoices as close as possible to the date of transmission.) (3) Contract number or other authorization for supplies delivered or services performed (including order number and contract line item number). (4) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price of supplies delivered or services performed. (5) Shipping and payment terms (e.g., shipment number and date of shipment, discount for prompt payment terms). Bill of lading number and weight of shipment will be shown for shipments on Government bills of lading. (6) Name and address of contractor official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment). (7) Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and mailing address of person to notify in the event of a defective invoice. (8) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The contractor must include its TIN on the invoice only if required by agency procedures. (See 4.9 TIN requirements.) (9) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (i) The contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision (e.g., 52.232-38, Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer), contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (ii) The last four digits of the contractor's bank account must be shown on each invoice submitted for payment. This information will be used as a crossreference in situations where the EFT banking information in the Central Contract Registration is suspect. (iii) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (10) The vendor's certification that their EFT banking information in the Central Contractor Registration is current, accurate and complete as of the date of the invoice. (11) Any other information or documentation required by the contract (e.g., evidence of shipment). (b) Any invoice that does not contain all of the information listed in paragraph (a) above will be rejected as improper, and a new complete corrected invoice must be submitted. The payment due date for the corrected invoice will be calculated from the date it is received in the Prompt Pay e-mail box.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 22 of 56 (c) ALL small business invoices--without exception--must have unique identifying numbers, and be submitted via e-mail to OPM's Small Business Invoice email box at: SmallBusinessInvoices@opm.gov Please note that OPM cannot guarantee payment of invoices sent by any other means, such as regular mail or e-mail to other addresses. (d) Please attach ONLY one invoice to each e-mail, and use the following format for the subject line of the e-mail: <Contractor name>&<Invoice no>&<Amount>&<Contract Number>/<Call or Order Number> Example: ABC Co&AB-1298433&10000.00&OPM00-00-X-0000/X0000 (e) Payment due dates will only be calculated from the date that invoices are received in the Small Business Invoice e-mail box. (f) Inquiries regarding payment of invoices should be e-mailed to InvoiceInquiries@opm.gov. The relevant invoice must be attached to the inquiry e-mail, and the subject line of the e-mail must state "INQUIRY," followed by the information described in paragraph (d) above. Example: INQUIRY: ABC Co&AB-1298433&10000.00&OPM00-00-X-0000/X0000 Do NOT use the Prompt Pay e-mail box for inquiries. (g) If the supplies, services, technical or other reports are rejected for failure to conform to the technical requirements of the contract, or for damage in transit or otherwise, the invoice will be rejected and returned to the Contractor. 1752.232-74 (July 2012) (a) Providing Accelerated Payment to Small Business Subcontractors

This clause implements the temporary policy provided by OMB Policy Memorandum M-12-16, Providing Prompt Payment to Small Business Subcontractors, dated July 11, 2012. (Note: OMB Policy Memorandum M-12-16 is accessible on line at: http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/2012/m-1216.pdf.)

OPM2613Q0088 Page 23 of 56 (b) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the contractor is required to pay all small business subcontractors on an accelerated timetable to the maximum extent practicable after receipt of invoice and all proper documents. Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts with small business. OPM Protest Procedures (Dec 2010)

(c)

1752.233-70

(a) An interested party who files a protest with OPM has the option of requesting review and consideration of the protest by either the Contracting Officer (CO) or the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE). The protest must clearly indicate the official to whom it is directed. (b) If the protest is directed to the SPE, a copy of the protest must be sent to the Director of the Contracting Group at the same time the protest is filed with the CO in accordance with FAR 52.233-2. The address of the Director of the Contract Group is: William N. Patterson, Director Contracting Group, FSC U.S. Office of Personnel 1900 E Street N.W., Room 1342 Washington, DC 20415 (c) Review and consideration of a protest by the SPE is an alternative to review and consideration by the CO. 1752.237-70 Non-Personal Services (July 2005)

(a) As stated in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Letter 92-1, dated September 23, 1992, Inherently Governmental Functions, no personal services shall be performed under this contract. No Contractor employee will be directly supervised by the Government. All individual employee assignments, and daily work direction, shall be given by the applicable employee supervisor. If the Contractor believes any Government action or communication has been given that would create a personal services relationship between the Government and any Contractor employee, the Contractor must promptly notify the Contracting Officer of this communication or action. (b) The Contractor must not perform any inherently Governmental actions under this contract. No Contractor employee shall hold him or herself out to be a Government employee, agent, or representative. No Contractor employee may state orally or in writing at any time that he or she is acting on behalf of the Government. In all communications with third parties in connection with the contract, Contractor employees must identify themselves as Contractor employees and specify the name of the company for which they work. In all communications with other Government Contractors in connection with this contract, the Contractor employee must state that they have no

OPM2613Q0088 Page 24 of 56 authority to in any way change the contract and that if the other Contractor believes this communication to be a direction to change their contract, they should notify the Contracting Officer for that contract and not carry out the direction until a clarification has been issued by the Contracting Officer. (c) The Contractor must insure that all of its employees working on this contract are informed of the substance of this clause. Nothing in this clause limits the Government's rights in any way under any other provision of the contract, including those related to the Government's right to inspect and accept the services to be performed under this contract. The substance of this clause must be included in all subcontracts at any tier. 1752.239-70 Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPV6) (Nov 2012)

In accordance with OPM CIO Directives, this acquisition requires all functionality, capabilities and features to be supported and operational in both a dual-stack IPv4/IPv6 environment and an IPv6 only environment. Furthermore, all management, user interfaces, configuration options, reports and other administrative capabilities that support IPv4 functionality will support comparable IPv6 functionality. Respondents are required to include in their response a letter of self-certification that their product has been tested in both a dual-stack IPv4/IPv6 and IPv6 only environment and meets this requirement. OPM reserves the right to require the respondent's products to be tested within an OPM or 3rd party test facility to show compliance with this requirement. In accordance with FAR 11.002(g) and OPM CIO Directives, this acquisition must comply with the NIST USGv6 Profile and IPv6 Test Program. 1752.239-73 Section 508 Standards (July 2005)

(a) All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this RFQ must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.accessboard.gov/sec508/508standards.htm. (b) The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this RFQ: (1) 1194.21. Software applications and operating systems. (2) 1194.22. Web-based intranet and Internet information and applications. (3) 1194.23 Telecommunications products. (4) 1194.24 Video and multimedia products. (5) 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.

(c) The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future

OPM2613Q0088 Page 25 of 56 (d) OPM is required by Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d), to offer access to electronic and information technology for disabled individuals within its employ, and for disabled members of the public seeking information and services. This access must be comparable to that which is offered to similar individuals who do not have disabilities. Standards for complying with this law are prescribed by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board ("The Access Board"). (e) The current deliverable(s) must incorporate these standards as well as any agency specific standards developed by OPM. The attached technical description contains further information on how this is to be done. Your response to the solicitation should contain documentation of your compliance with these standards. However, the Contracting Officer may request additional technical documentation, if necessary to make this determination. (f) The final work product must include documentation that the deliverable conforms with the Section 508 Standards promulgated by the US Access Board. (g) In the event of a dispute between you and OPM, then OPM's assessment of the Section 508 compliance will control and you will need to make any additional changes needed to conform with OPM's assessment, at no additional charge to OPM. 1752.239-77 Privacy Act Compliance (Nov 2012) (a) Contractors must comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 rules and regulations in the design, development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish an OPM function for a System of Records (SOR)1. (b)In the event of violations of the Act, a civil action may be brought against OPM involved when the violation concerns the design, development, or operation of a SOR on individuals to accomplish an OPM function, and criminal penalties may be imposed upon the officers or employees of OPM when the violation concerns the operation of a SOR on individuals to accomplish an OPM function. For purposes of the Act, when the contract is for the operation of a SOR on individuals to accomplish an OPM function, the contractor/subcontractor is considered to be an employee of the agency.

"System of Records" is defined as a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.

1

OPM2613Q0088 Page 26 of 56 1752.242-70 Contract Performance Information (July 2005) (a) Dissemination of Contract Performance Information

The Contractor must not publish, permit to be published, or distribute for public consumption, any information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. Two copies of any material proposed to be published or distributed must be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval. (b) Contractor Testimony

All requests for the testimony of the Contractor or its employees, and any intention to testify as an expert witness relating to: (a) any work required by, and or performed under, this contract: or (b) any information provided by any party to assist the Contractor in the performance of this contract, must be immediately reported to the Contracting Officer. Neither the Contractor nor its employees must testify on a matter related to work performed or information provided under this contract, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request, in any judicial or administrative proceeding unless approved by the Contracting Officer or required by a judge in a final court order.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 27 of 56 FAR 52.212-1 (Incorporated by reference), Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Items (FEB 2012). Please provide quotations in accordance to the criteria listed below.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE PROPOSAL
Technical and Pricing proposals MUST be in two separate volumes. If your technical and price proposal is not submitted in two separate files, your response to this solicitation will be considered non-responsive and will not be given any further consideration. Each of the parts shall be separate and complete, so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of and concurrently with the evaluation of the others. PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE PROPOSAL (a) The offeror shall include in its proposal a discussion of the offeror's proposed approach to respond to the requirements in the statement of objectives (SOO). Present clear and convincing evidence that you understand the scope of work as described in the SOO, and that your technical approach to accomplishing this work is sound. To include:   A narrative describing your understanding of this requirement. Indicate the initial plan to gain an understanding of OPM's operation needs. Proposed Technical Approach Evaluation will be based on the extent to which the proposal demonstrates the understanding and ability to successfully accomplish the requirements of this Statement of Objectives. The technical approach should include a discussion and proposed course, i.e. examples of typical deliverables, methodologies, and plans to achieve successful performance of the work requirements. Describe your strategy for dealing with potential significant technical, administrative, or managerial problems that could arise, particularly those issues that impact deliverable deadlines. Subject Matter Expertise/Credentials Will be evaluated on resume/biographical sketch, descriptions, examples, etc. that illustrate the expertise, skills, experience and credentials needed to meet the requirements of, and successfully achieve the services in this Statement of Objectives. Information presented shall be in sufficient detail to describe the previous experience and effectiveness to demonstrate current ability to accomplish the tasking of this solicitation. Past Performance (with 3 references) Past performance shall summarize the offeror's success during recent engagements (including results). Of specific interest will be the degree of success achieved during projects within the past 5 years that are directly





OPM2613Q0088 Page 28 of 56 relevant to this project. The information presented shall be in sufficient detail to describe the previous experience and effectiveness of the offeror in similar or closely related work, and to demonstrate the offeror's current ability to accomplish the tasking in this solicitation. The government may conduct reference checks. In this regard, the offeror is required to provide a list of related projects with points of contact (names and telephone numbers) to support past performance. (b) Also include the following information for three (3) contracts and/or subcontracts for requirements as similar as possible to the current requirement:  Name of contract or project;  Role (Prime or Subcontractor);  Period of Performance;  Contract Manager and telephone number;  Program Manager and telephone number;  Project description, scope of work performed, services or products delivered;  Major success or accomplishments (c) The submission shall be clearly indexed and logically assembled. Each volume shall be clearly identified and shall begin at the top of a page. All pages of each volume shall be appropriately numbered and identified by the complete company name, date and solicitation number in the header and/or footer. A Table of Contents should be created using the Table of Contents feature in MS Word. MS Word (.doc) files shall use the following Page Setup parameters: Proposal page limits are as follows:  Technical Proposal ­ 20 page limit  Price Proposal ­ 5 page limit (d) All information shall be submitted in a MS Word document (.doc or .docx) format only. Word (.doc) files shall use the following Page Setup parameters: Margins ­ Top, Bottom, Left, Right - 1" Gutter ­ 0" From Edge ­ Header, Footer - 0.5" Page Size, Width ­ 8.5" Page Size, Height ­ 11" The following additional restrictions apply:    Each paragraph shall be separated by at least one blank line. A standard, 11-point minimum font size applies. Tables and illustrations may use a reduced font size not less than 8-point and may be landscape.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 29 of 56 (e) Pages that exceed the page limits above will be deleted and will not be evaluated. Page numbers, headers and footers may be within the page margins ONLY, and are not bound by the font requirements. Company logos are prohibited with the exception of the Title Page. Pages that exceed the margin, font or total page limit will not be evaluated. Pages deleted due to violation of the margin or font restrictions will not count against the page limitation. Page count will NOT be based upon the numbers of pages, printed but rather dictated by the number of pages in a print layout view in the application based upon the above-prescribed document settings. Counting pages in the order they appear for viewing will make up the page count. The page limits are applicable to graphs, tables, drawings and any other attachments submitted with the proposals and not specifically excluded by the solicitation. (f) Exceptions to the page limit count and placement of certain attachments.  Exceptions for Volume I ­ Technical o Any index, table of contents, or glossary will not be included in the maximum page limitation. o Faculty bios will not be included in the maximum page limitation and shall be included as a separate attachment under Volume I.  You may submit no more than 5 Faculty bios total. Any one bio may be a maximum of one page in length. All bios shall be placed in a separate attachment under Volume I Technical. (g) Offeror(s) are responsible for including sufficient details to permit a complete and accurate evaluation of each proposal. Each file of the proposal shall consist of a Table of Contents, Summary Section and the Narrative discussion. The Summary Section shall contain a brief abstract of the file. Proprietary information shall be clearly marked. Failure to include this material will disqualify your submission and it will not be considered. ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE TECHNICAL PORTION OF THE PROPOSAL (a) Proposals which merely offer to conduct the work in accordance with the requirements of the government's scope of work will be considered nonresponsive. The offeror must submit an explanation of the proposed technical approach in conjunction with the tasks to be performed in achieving the project objectives. (b) Evaluation of the technical portion of proposals will be conducted by a technical review committee in accordance with the evaluation criteria stated in FAR Clause 52.212-2 ­ Evaluation, below. (c) Offerors are advised that the government, upon completion of the technical and price evaluation processes as defined in "Instructions for Preparing the Technical Portion..." and "Instructions for Preparing the Business Portion...", reserves the right to establish a competitive range without engaging in further discussions or

OPM2613Q0088 Page 30 of 56 negotiation sessions concerning the terms and conditions of such offers. The competitive range will be comprised of all offerors with a reasonable opportunity to receive contract award. Those proposals whose technical and price evaluations fall within the competitive range will proceed to the next step of the evaluation process. If the Contracting Officer decides that your proposal should no longer be included in the competitive range, the Contracting Officer will eliminate your proposal from consideration for award and provide a written notice to you. (d) After establishing the competitive range, the government may hold oral presentations to further identify the best qualified contractors. We will only schedule oral presentations with those offerors that are within the competitive range (unless we determine that an oral presentation is necessary to complete the initial evaluation). Offerors must cover the following areas in their oral presentations:  Corporate experience and philosophies related to leadership development training/education;  Qualifications and experience of key personnel; and  Teaming arrangements (if any). At the conclusion of each offeror's oral presentation, we might conduct clarifications and discussions.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING THE BUSINESS PORTION OF THE PROPOSAL
PRICE INFORMATION Offerors shall submit a Firm-Fixed Price proposal. Offerors shall submit a detailed breakdown of estimated rates by tasks to be performed. In addition, a summary total amount shall be furnished for the entire project. CLIN Supplies/Services Course Design Course Delivery Instructor Itemization Estimated Materials (to include itemization) Estimated Travel to EMDC in Shepherdstown, WV Estimated Travel to Quantity Unit of Delivery Unit Price Total

OPM2613Q0088 Page 31 of 56 WMDC in Aurora, CO Total The business portion of the proposal must contain sufficient information to allow the Government to perform a basic analysis of the proposed price of the work. Prices proposed shall be firm fixed prices. The successful contractor shall submit invoices after each program delivery. The contractor shall clarify for each line item if the unit price represents the contractor's published prices, or lower. INFORMATION OTHER THAN PRICING DATA The contractor shall submit sufficiently detailed information to permit the Contracting Officer and authorized representatives to evaluate the offer. Unless otherwise stated in this solicitation, the information may be submitted in the offeror's own format. PRICING The contractor shall clarify for each line item if the unit price represents the contractor's published prices, or lower.

PAST PERFORMANCE INSTRUCTIONS
Offerors shall submit the following information as part of their proposal for both the offeror and proposed major subcontractors: A. Offerors shall submit a list of at least three (3), but not more than five (5) references from the last three (3) contracts, or subcontracts, for services comparable to those described in the solicitation, completed during the past five years. B. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal government, agencies of state and local governments, and commercial customers. Offerors that are newly formed entities without prior contracts should list contracts and subcontracts as required above for all key personnel. The reference list shall include the following information for each contract and subcontract:      Name of contract or project; Role (Prime or Subcontractor); Period of Performance; Contract Manager and telephone number; Program Manager and telephone number;

OPM2613Q0088 Page 32 of 56   Project description, scope of work performed, services or products delivered; Major success or accomplishments

C. The offeror may provide information on problems encountered on the contract and subcontracts identified above and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. Offerors should not provide general information on their performance on the identified contracts. General performance information will be obtained from the references. D. The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required. If the award or certification is over three (3) years old, present evidence that the qualifications still apply. E. Offerors should notify each of their private-sector (commercial) references that they may be contacted by the OPM and authorize them to provide the past performance information requested. References other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the Government, and the information received from them may be used in the evaluation of the offeror's past performance. FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation--Commercial Items (JAN 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers and are in descending order of importance:     Technical Capability Experience and Expertise of Staff Past Performance Price

(b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not

OPM2613Q0088 Page 33 of 56 there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. All evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined are significantly more important than cost or price. 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items. (Dec 2012) An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

OPM2613Q0088 Page 34 of 56 (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"--

OPM2613Q0088 Page 35 of 56 (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b)

OPM2613Q0088 Page 36 of 56 (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a servicedisabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 37 of 56 (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged

OPM2613Q0088 Page 38 of 56 Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 39 of 56 (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

OPM2613Q0088 Page 40 of 56 ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available offthe-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is

OPM2613Q0088 Page 41 of 56 not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________

OPM2613Q0088 Page 42 of 56 ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade AgreementsIsraeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government

OPM2613Q0088 Page 43 of 56 will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 44 of 56 (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ ___________________

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 45 of 56 (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) o Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] [ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to nonGovernmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and

OPM2613Q0088 Page 46 of 56 (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local); o Foreign government;

OPM2613Q0088 Page 47 of 56 o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if--

OPM2613Q0088 Page 48 of 56 (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) Alternate I (Apr 2011). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(12) to the basic provision: (12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ____ Hispanic American. ____ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. Alternate II (Jan 2012). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(10)(iii) to the basic provision: (iii) Address. The offeror represents that its address o is, o is not in a region for which a small disadvantaged business procurement mechanism is authorized and its address has not changed since its certification as a small disadvantaged business concern or submission of its application for certification. The list of authorized small disadvantaged business procurement mechanisms and regions is posted at http://www.acquisition.gov/References/sdbadjustments.htm. The offeror shall use the list in effect on the date of this solicitation. "Address," as used in this provision,

OPM2613Q0088 Page 49 of 56 means the address of the offeror as listed on the Small Business Administration's register of small disadvantaged business concerns or the address on the completed application that the concern has submitted to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier in accordance with 13 CFR Part 124, subpart B. For joint ventures, "address" refers to the address of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. Incorporated by reference are FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-- Commercial Items (FEB 2012). 52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items (Jan 2013) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) _x_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Aug 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).

OPM2613Q0088 Page 50 of 56 _x_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Feb 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313). _x_ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (11) [Reserved] _x_ (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). __ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). __ (13)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. __ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). __ (15)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. _x_ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)). __ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). __ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 51 of 56 __ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business SetAside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). _x_ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged WomenOwned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). __ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _x_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _x_ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). _x_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _x_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _x_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _x_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). __ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). __ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). __ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) __ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). __ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 52 of 56 _x_ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) (E.O. 13513). __ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (Nov 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43). __ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (iv) Alternate III (Nov 2012) of 52.225-3. __ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (NOV 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _x_ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). __ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _x_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

OPM2613Q0088 Page 53 of 56 __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). _x_ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O.13495). __ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than

OPM2613Q0088 Page 54 of 56 those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.

OPM2613Q0088 Page 55 of 56 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services. (Nov 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 15 days before the contract expires. 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. (Mar 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed nine months. 52.237-3 Continuity of Services. (Jan 1991) (a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to-- (1) Furnish phase-in training; and (2) Exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor. (b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer's written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer's approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency. (c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this

OPM2613Q0088 Page 56 of 56 contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor. (d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract.

(End of Clause)

DRAFT  

Developing CustomerFocused Organizations  
 

MONDAY     
8:30 AM Welcome, Orientation and Introductions

TUESDAY    
8:30 AM ­12:00 Shaping the Customer Experience

WEDNESDAY     
8:30 AM ­ 12:00 Engaging and Encouraging: The Leadership Link to Customer Service

THURSDAY     
8:30 AM - 12:00 Measuring Public Service Value

FRIDAY     
8:30 AM ­ 12:00 Building Shared Services Through Collaboration

Building the Trust: Customer Focus in the Public Service

Evaluations & Graduation

Lunch 
1:00 ­ 5:00 Challenging Our Assumptions of Customer Service

Lunch ­ Class Photo 
1:00 ­ 5:00 Shaping the Customer Experience (Tech Center 2:45 ­ 3:45)

Lunch 
1:00 ­ 5:00 Engaging and Encouraging: The Leadership Link to Customer Service continued

Lunch 
1:00 ­ 5:00 Putting It All Together (Strategic Planning Session)

Lunch 

Travel Home Safely!

continued

