RFQ NUMBER:

NB772000-14-00331

TITLE: Study and Development of Measurement Science for Ultra High Speed optical Communication Technologies LAB REQUESTING SERVICE: Advanced Networks Technologies Division (772) I. BACKGROUND INFORMATION The Advanced Network Technologies Division (ANTD) in the Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) of the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) conducts research and development in measurement and modeling technologies and standards development for network protocols. ANTD is currently developing performance analysis and network measurement and modeling tools to better understand emerging high-performance networking technologies. This performance work statement (PWS) defines a set of scientific and technical services and deliverables necessary in order to support ANTD's activities in this area. The purpose of this contract is to support ANTD in its current efforts in developing an experimental hardware-based network evaluation approach to characterize the behavior of highperformance networking technologies and assess their performance. II. OBJECTIVES 1. Study and evaluate new technologies for next generation ultra high speed (400Gb/s and beyond) and high spectral efficiency optical fiber communication networks, both theoretically and by measuring performance experimentally. 2. Research and evaluate the high efficiency modulation format for optical networks, such an Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing OFDM technology to improve the modulation bandwidth utilization efficiency. 3. Research, model and evaluate the coherent optical receiving technology, which can be used for OFDM signal and other high efficiency modulation format for optical communication.

4. Documentation of design, analysis, experiment and publication on NIST public web site. 5. Provide guidance and support to research associates, recommendation to the related research team at NIST. Deliverables will be in the form of documentation with detailed design specification, theoretical analysis plan, experiment setup, experiment procedures, algorithm and pseudo code for experimental data process. III. CONTRACTOR MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: The tasks and deliverables in this PWS require the contractor to possess in depth knowledge in emerging optical communications such but not limited to: High speed transmitter/receiver (40Gb/s and 100Gb/s), coherent detection, Digital Signal Processor (DSP), Wavelength-Division Multiplexing (WDM), Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (QPSK)/OFDM modulation and detection. A full understanding of related optical communication standards, such as Synchronous Digital Hierarchy(SDH), Gigabit Ethernet (GbE), Optical Transport Network (OTN), WDM is required. The Contractor must have a minimum 5 yrs advanced experience within the last 10 yr in developing high speed optical equipment and system, familiar with programming languages and software tools such as C/C++, Verilog/VHDL, Matlab, Xilinx/Altera FieldProgrammable Gate Array (FPGA)software, familiar with test equipment such as Optical Spectrum Analyzer (OSA)pattern generator, error detector, high speed optical/electrical real time oscilloscope. In addition, the Contractor must Possess a PhD in Computer Science or Electrical Engineering from an accredited Institution obtained within the last 15 years and technical experience as evidenced by work experience in optical communication systems. IV. SPECIFIC TASKS TASK 1: Kick-Off Meeting The Contractor shall attend a kick-off meeting, on-site at NIST Gaithersburg not later than 10 business days after award of the contract. The Contract Specialist (CS), Contracting Officer Representative (COR), and other authorized NIST personnel shall be in attendance. The kick-off meeting shall be utilized to introduce the Contractor, review all contract requirements and deliverables, and discuss the contents of all tasks and

subsequent updates. Technical Representative Abdella Battou will schedule the Kick off meeting within 30 days after the award. TASK 2: Detailed Design Documents and Test plans The Contractor shall work with a guest researcher to develop detailed necessary hardware design documents and test plans for implementing 1. An Optical OFDM transmitter using an Optical Comb Generator. 2. An Electrical OFDM Transmitter 3. An Optical Coherent Receiver 4. An Optical Transmission Test

TASK 3: Vendor List for key Components The Contractor shall work with a guest researcher to research and evaluate the key hardware components needed in each design and provide a list with their performance characterization. TASK 4: Implementation and Performance Evaluation The Contractor shall work with a guest researcher to develop the necessary DSP algorithms and assist in their FPGA implementations. Testing scenarios that allow for the characterization of performance impact and parameter sensibility shall be defined and evaluated. Performance characteristics and link budget including SNR, transmitted and received power, and bit error rate will be included. The Contractor will use available information from the scientific community, and additional information provided by NIST technical leads. Documentation of results shall be in Microsoft PowerPoint presentations and/or Microsoft Word documents, and shall be published on the NIST website. Approval of the NIST Contracting Officer Representative (COR) is required prior to publication. TASK 5: Monthly Progress Reports The Contractor shall deliver monthly progress reports by the 15th of each month to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR). Progress reports must document progress made toward accomplishing Tasks 2-4 and completing deliverables, identify issues encountered, and identify project risks along with risk mitigations proposed/emplaced.

V. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE The period of performance shall be one year starting a week after the award. 01 March 2014 ­ 28 February 2014. VI. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE All work shall be performed off-site with remote access, with regular meetings at NIST Gaithersburg, Maryland. VII. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY NIST will provide on-site office space (including phone, and network access), and all necessary computing resources. Contractor shall only access low risk general-purpose ADP equipment and common network services available to NIST associates. The intellectual properties generated during the contracting period shall belong to NIST. VIII. DELIVERABLES Deliverable Task 1: Detailed Design Documents and Test plans Task 2: Provide vendor list for key components and equipment Task 3: Analysis and provide guidance to a guest researcher at NIST for building and testing of Optical and/or Electrical OFDM transmitter Task 4: Analysis and provide guidance to guest researcher at NIST for building and testing of optical coherent I/Q receiver Task 5: Monthly Progress Reports Due Date 1 month after the start 2 months after the start 5 months after the start

9 months after the start

Monthly on the 15th of every month after the start date.

Note: NIST shall retain unlimited rights as specified in the FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data ­ General to all artifacts that are produced as a result of this effort.

IX. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY AQL = Acceptable Quality Level
Desired Output Optical OFDM transmitter Required Service a.)Design document, b.)development, testing and evaluation of the optical OFDM transmitter by optical comb generator Provide Timely accurate documents designs Must follow timeline for development and testing Algorithm in FPGA or offline DSP to generate OFDM signals mapped from serial input data Optical hybrid and balanced receiver to coherently demodulate the optical OFDM signal. DSP will be realized in FPGA or offline. Test and evaluate the performance of ultra high speed communication system with OFDM technology 100% accuracy Performance Standard AQL Monitoring Method 100% surveillance of all documents generated and or submitted

90% functionality 100% accuracy 90% functionality 100% of the Algorithm and documentation developed will be reviewed by COR 100% of the Models and documentation developed will be reviewed by COR

Electrical OFDM transmitter

Optical coherent receiver

a) Design document, b) development, testing, and evaluation of electrical OFDM transmitter by IFFT in DSP a)Design document, b) development, testing, and evaluation of coherent optical I/Q receiver for OFDM signals

100% accuracy 90% functionality

90% functionality

Optical transmission test

Optical transmission test using coherent OFDM technologies developed above at or beyond 400Gb/s

90% functionality

100% of the Models and documentation developed will be reviewed by COR

*NOTE: Your performance standards lack metrics by which to measure the contractor's performance. Standard should be a minimum acceptable level, expressed as a metric of some type. X. TRAVEL Contractor may need to travel to NIST in Gaithersburg, Maryland to discuss the setup developed and the performance results

obtained with the rest of Optical Network Research team. Additional travel may be incurred and is contingent upon the results obtained and the need to brief potential customers and stakeholders and at the request of the NIST/Law Enforcement Standard program. Up to four (4) trips are expected for the duration of the contract. XI. SECTION 508 ACCESSBILITY All Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) as defined at FAR 2.101, supplied under this order must conform to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards (36 CFR Part 1194). The applicable standards are available at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm. The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this order: 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.

