STATEMENT OF WORK

FOR

DLA INFORMATION OPERATIONS NEW CUMBERLAND 

WEB APPLICATION SUPPORT SERVICES 

AT DLA INFORMATION OPERATIONS, NEW CUMBERLAND, PA

 LOCATED AT SUSQUEHANNA, PA

30 October 2014





SECTION 1 INTRODUCTION



The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Information Operations at New Cumberland has developed web applications that serve as graphical user interfaces (GUI) to DLA Distribution users for retrieving mission critical data from the Distribution Standard System (DSS) Data Store without stressing or competing with mainframe transactional processes.  The web applications are used by users at the DLA Distribution Headquarters and the 29 locations worldwide they support as well as other Defense Logistics Agencies.  



The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Information Operations at New Cumberland is responsible for developing, testing, migrating and maintaining web applications in support of DLA Distribution, its worldwide depots and military customers.  These responsibilities require generating new code and updating existing code to meet business requirements as defined by customers of DLA Information Operations in New Cumberland.



This document contains brief descriptions of the type of work required and the qualifications required for each labor category.  Task orders issued will contain detailed specific tasks to be performed and timeframes for completion. At the discretion of the Government a projection for needed man power on specific task orders may be given. The Government has determined the need to provide the estimated man power in the SOW for Task Order 0001. The Contractor shall provide all project management and supervision necessary to perform the tasks ordered.  A Task Order specifies and authorizes work to be accomplished by the Contractor to satisfy task requirements.  



The Contractor shall begin task order performance within 30 calendar days of the effective date of a Task Order award.  If the Government so decides, a Task Order may specify shorter periods for the beginning of the Task Order performance.  The Contractor may be required to perform task orders simultaneously.  The Contractor must be capable of providing a ready workforce with the ability to obtain the appropriate personnel clearances (See 2.6 Personnel Security Clearance), and IT eligibilities. (See 2.6 Information System Security and 2.6.1 DoD Common Access Card (CAC)). 





SECTION 2	GENERAL CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS



Scope of Work:



 DLA Information Operations requires Enterprise Web Application Maintenance and Development Support to provide Advanced Web Application Support in the maintenance and enhancement of existing web applications throughout DLA Distribution and all associated distribution locations.  The objective is to utilize on-site contractual support to augment DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland expertise to maintain and/or enhance the existing web applications, rationalize existing systems for consolidation, and troubleshoot and resolve all related programmatic problems that require DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland expertise and reach back to include technical support for all DLA Distribution locations.



Advanced Web Application Support – Contacts vendors for warranty issues for both hardware and software.  This level of support requires communication with vendors or other Government agencies to accomplish the resolution for the most complex hardware and software issues, locally and at all DLA Distribution sites.   

 

Contractor technical support is required to provide application maintenance when problems occur that affect the operations of the DLA Distribution and the Control Change Board (CCB) will be assigned by written task and will alter the functionality, look-feel, or reporting process of the tasked program.  Application changes will include additional web interface features, streamlining management tools to decrease manual efforts, changing database definitions and structures, modernize reporting requirements, and other products to meet changes in regulatory requirements. All web applications listed in Section 6.1, WEB Application Support Table are Government developed. 



The scope of effort will also include Contractor support to generate new code and update SharePoint 2010 programming.

 

This is a non-personal service contract to provide on-site support at the DLA Distribution

Headquarters facility located in New Cumberland, Pennsylvania.  The Government will not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor’s employees performing the services required for each specific Task Order.  Such contract employees shall be accountable solely to the Contractor who, in turn is responsible to the Government.  All contract personnel attending meetings, answering Government telephones, corresponding by e-mail, and working in other situations where their Contractor status is not obvious to third parties are required to identify themselves as such to avoid creating an impression in the minds of the members of the public that they are Government officials.  All Contractor employees shall wear ID badges conspicuously on his or her outer clothing above the waste at all times and shall identify themselves as Contractors while in the work place and at meetings.





GENERAL OPERATION CONDITIONS 



A. This Section provides general information relating to the conditions of operation and general requirements relating to the Web Application support services performed by DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA located at Susquehanna, PA.



2.2.1 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE 



Work will be accomplished primarily at DLA Distribution Susquehanna, PA 17070  DLA Distribution Susquehanna, New Cumberland, PA. 



Contractor employees may be required to travel to any site CONUS supported by DLA Distribution as deemed necessary. 



Travel costs will be paid for in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations. Receipts for all travel expenses must be provided when the travel voucher is submitted.



Offsite work may be authorized at the discretion the Government on specific Task Orders. The contractor shall have onsite FTE's on all released task orders.



2.2.2 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE 



The period of performance will be established for a one year base period with four-one year option periods. Continued funding for task orders is contingent upon an acceptable level of performance.



1.2.3  	INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS

The Contractor’s primary interaction with the Government shall be through the Contracting Officer (KO) and the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).  The COR will perform the following.

Perform all COR functions.

Perform quality assurance evaluations of the Contractor’s performance.

Provide the primary interface between the Contractor and the host installation and DLA Headquarters.

Perform other inherently governmental functions or other functions not part of this support services.





2.2.3 FEDERAL HOLIDAYS 



Federal holidays generally observed by government personnel include:









In the event an Executive Order issued by the President of the United States declares Agencies of the Federal Government closed for a regularly scheduled workday, the Contracting Officer (KO) or designee will determine and advise the contractor on whether services are required for that day.



2.2.4 CURRENT DUTY HOURS AND ACCESS TO THE HOST INSTALLATION 

A.   Work will primarily be accomplished at the DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland location Monday through Friday from the hours of 0600-1700 hours.   

B.    On-call after hours work shall be required as deemed necessary by the COR.   Support shall be provided via telephone, on-site, or remotely using Government furnished equipment (GFE), as deemed necessary.

C.    Due to changing traffic requirements brought on by construction, changing missions, and security concerns within the host installation, access to the host installation is subject to change, sometimes with little or no warning.  Inbound and outbound traffic restrictions exist.

2.3 KEY PERSONNEL 

2.3.1 PROJECT MANAGER

The Contractor shall designate a Project Manager for the duration of the contract. There will be only one Project Manager Position, which is the only Key Personnel position for the contract.  The individual in this position will manage the contract, as well as each task order, and may be required to perform administration and control over personnel on multiple task orders simultaneously. In the performance of these duties, the Contractor shall possess the basic knowledge and skills required to plan, control, manage, and shall be responsible for the successful completion of the work and shall be qualified to be the Contractor’s on-site supervisor and POC for Government representatives.  The Project Manager shall be able to provide overall supervision for Contractor employees to include, but not limited to, planning and managing the project professionally, ensuring that work is scheduled properly to obtain maximum use of resources; ensuring that accurate and timely reports are provided.  Has the authority to resolve problems, allocate resources, manage personnel, and monitor operation performance taking direction from the Government to ensure complete satisfaction. 

Upon notification, the Project Manager shall be available to communicate with Government personnel within one (1) hour during normal duty hours and within two (2) hours outside of normal duty hours.  The Contractor shall provide the name, telephone number (to include mobile telephone and pager, as applicable) and e-mail address of the Program Manager in writing at the start of the contract.  

In the event of the replacement of the Project Manager, the Contractor shall notify the KO or designee, in writing, of such replacement.  The name, telephone number (to include mobile telephone and pager, as applicable) and e-mail address of the replacement Project Manager shall be provided to the KO or designee at least 15 calendar days prior to a planned replacement and within 24 hours following an unplanned replacement.  



2.4 PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS

The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and certifications and for complying with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws.  The Contractor shall maintain updated copies of any applicable licenses and certifications for all employees and make them available to the Government upon request.

All Contractor personnel must be proficient in reading and capable of communicating effectively in English.

All Contractor personnel performing tasks under this SOW shall have appropriate level DoD 8570 IT level certifications for Information Assurance Technical (IAT) as identified in Table 2.4.1, IAT Certification Requirements.















    

Table 2.4.1, IAT Certification Requirements





* All tasks performed under this SOW are categorized under Information Assurance Technical (IAT) Level II positions as outlined in DoD 8570.01-M. No waivers or extensions will be provided for mandatory DoD IA or DLA CE certification requirements. Contractor personnel who fail to maintain the required certifications are subject to KO directed removal for performance under Section 2.5 of the SOW. 



Personnel assigned to or utilized by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall possess the qualifications and skills set forth below and shall be fully capable of performing in an efficient, reliable, and professional manner.  If the KO or COR questions the qualifications or competence of any person performing under a task order, the burden of proof that the person is qualified as prescribed herein shall be upon the Contractor.

The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and certifications and for complying with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws.  The Contractor shall maintain updated copies of any applicable licenses and certifications for all employees and provide copies to the COR.

Contractor personnel that operate motor vehicles shall maintain a valid state driver’s license with all class and commodity endorsements required by Public Law 99-570 and state law for the type of vehicle operated.



TECHNICAL PERSONNEL



2.5.1	PERSONNEL RECRUITMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS  

The Contractor shall implement a continuing recruiting program such that the Contractor can respond to urgent and phased surge and mobilization requirements.  Personnel assigned to or utilized by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall, as a minimum, meet the experience, educational, or other background requirements set forth below and shall be fully capable of performing in an efficient, reliable, and professional manner.  If the KO questions the qualifications or competence of any person performing under the contract, the burden of proof that the person is qualified as prescribed herein shall be upon the Contractor.



Personnel assigned to or utilized by the Contractor in the performance of this contract shall

meet the experience, educational, and other background requirements set forth below and shall be fully capable of performing in an efficient, reliable, and professional manner.  



The Contractor shall not employ any person who is not a citizen of the United States and who does not have the requisite security check as set forth in paragraph 2.6 Personnel Clearance.  





2.5.2  REQUIRED SKILLS FOR ALL PERSONNEL:


The Contractorpersonnel shall have working knowledge and hands on use of the following tools, languages, databases, third party libraries and IT infrastructure as listed below, to include current versions or later.



Table of Skills and Knowledge for personnel: 





Proven knowledge of programming a distribution network system, building distribution Hub and         Spoke Networks, Lanes, SKUs (item-location combinations) and assigning inventory levels at world-wide depots.  This includes extensive knowledge of integrating restrictions, business rules to build a world-wide network, extracting demand for all stockable items at all stockable locations (dual channels) from a history table, implement System Change Requests (SCRs), and performing planned and dynamic deployment of material movement.



Good Communication/Analytical skills



Working knowledge of Internet/Intranet/Extranet architectures and security of each with emphasis on how it applies to domains in a Windows environment.  



Capability to identify problems, debug and resolve application malfunctions.



Ability to analyze, diagnose, recommend and implement solutions for application problems.  



Proven knowledge of automating data transfer between mainframe (OS390), mid-tier (Windows and Unix, and desktop platforms, automatic conversions from EDCDIC to ASCII, data scrubbing/normalization, and data loads.  The ability to fully automate and compress/decompress on the fly is absolutely mandatory.



Working capability designing and maintaining database structure, the database engine, dictionaries, data integrity, security, user accounts, jobs, roles, indexes, complex SQL statements and all necessary structures in a distributed application environment. 



Working knowledge of the Common Runtime Language (CLR) virtual machine component of Microsoft’s .Net 2.0, stored procedures written in VB.Net and C# within a 64-bit platform.



Ability to understand and abide by the Mobile Code policy, OPSEC (Operational Security) and other DoD, DLA, and DLA Distribution Internet and Intranet and Information Assurance guidance, policy, and directives.  Examples may include the ability to correct SQL Injection or Cross Script Vulnerabilities of an application program.



Knowledge of the IBM MQ Series data transfer server, the Microsoft Data Transfer System, and the File Transfer Protocol and controlling each with automated triggers. 



Working knowledge and understanding of transferring web applications and mainframe data to Microsoft SharePoint Portal servers.    



SENIOR WEB DEVELOPERS SKILLS 



2.5.2.1 The Senior Web Developers shall have working knowledge and hands on use of the following tools, languages, databases, third party libraries and IT infrastructure as listed in the table below, to include current versions or later.









JUNIOR WEB DEVELOPERS SKILLLS 



2.5.3.1 The Junior Web Developers shall have working knowledge and hands on use of the following tools, languages, databases, third party libraries and IT infrastructure as listed in the table below, to include current versions or later.













2.6 SECURITY 

The Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) dated 27 August 2004 has established criteria for contractors who require a Common Access Card (CAC) for either physical access to a U.S. Government controlled installation or access to government information technology (IT) systems.  The Government requires Personnel Security Investigations (PSI) to establish that applicants or incumbents either employed by the Government or working for the Government under contract are suitable for the job and/or are eligible for a public trust position.  These positions have been designated as IT Level II and require a Secret clearance.  Contractors shall be required to provide appropriate background investigation for IT-II with Secret clearance as required in accordance with DoD 5220.22-M, “National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual” (NISPOM) and DoD 5200.2-R.  The appropriate background investigation for IT-II with Secret clearance is a National Agency Check with Local Agency Check and Credit Check (NACLC).  The Contractor shall forward their employee clearance information to: 



DLA Intelligence Office 

ATTN:  Personnel Security Officer

2001 Mission Drive

New Cumberland, PA 17070



All personnel employed by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, or any representative of the Contractor entering a U.S. Government installation, shall abide by all security regulations and policies of the installation including access badges, parking, access to controlled or restricted areas, classified information, controlled unclassified information, data and IT resources.

DLA reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interests of the Government, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status. DLA also reserves the right to direct the removal of an employee for misconduct, security violations, or performance reasons. The reason for removal shall be fully documented in writing by the Contracting Officer. When and if such removal occurs, the contractor shall assign qualified personnel to any vacancy(s) thus created within 10 working days. This action does not relieve the contractor from total performance of the contract tasks specified herein.

Contractor shall return all government issued identification, access badges, and vehicle passes to the KO or COR upon termination of service.

2.6.1 The provisions outlined above apply to the prime contractor and any subcontractors the prime contractor may employ during the course of this contract. No contractor personnel performing sensitive duties shall be allowed to commence work on this effort until his or her trustworthiness has been favorably adjudicated. DoD Common Access Card (CAC)/access identification badge (id badge)/electronic key card. 

Every Contractor employee shall obtain and possess a DoD Common Access Card (CAC) and an Access ID Badge as required.  Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job and the approval for temporary Automated Information System (AIS) access pending final adjudication of the PSI, the Contractor shall submit to the KO a request for the DoD CAC and ID Badge. 



The Contractor shall safeguard CAC and ID Badges furnished to them.  Contractor employees shall not share CAC and ID Badges.  Each Contractor employee shall wear the ID Badge conspicuously on his or her outer clothing above the waist at all times while working on the installation.  Personnel may be challenged and removed from the work area or denied access to the host installation if the ID Badge is not worn.  



In the event that a Contractor employee damages or loses his or her CAC and ID Badge, the Contractor shall report the lost or damaged CAC and ID Badge within two (2) working hours of damage or loss to the KO or COR who will arrange for a replacement CAC or ID Badge.  The Government will issue the Contractor employee a temporary ID Badge to be used for an eight to ten (8-10) working day waiting period until a new permanent ID Badge is issued.  The Contractor shall return all government-furnished CAC or ID Badges to the Government either within one (1) working day of the completion of the contract or upon termination of an individual’s employment, whichever comes first.  Contractor personnel failing to return their Government CAC or ID Badge are subject to criminal charges under USC Title 18, Chapter 1, Section 499 and 701.



The KO or COR will provide and maintain electronic key cards for the security access system.  The electronic key card allows access to specific controlled areas of the facilities.  The KO or COR will approve and provide the electronic key cards to the Contractor for access to the facilities.



2.7 INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY 

Upon favorable review and initiation of the PSI to establish the suitability of an employee for the job and the approval for temporary AIS access pending final adjudication, but not less than fourteen (14) working days prior to the employee’s start date, the Contractor shall request Information Technology (IT) eligibility for an employee requiring access and passwords to the government-furnished data systems.  All positions involving computer activities require a minimum IT II category eligibility.  The Contractor shall submit a Contractor Investigative Request (CIR) and a DD Form 2875 for temporary IT II eligibility, with final eligibility contingent upon receiving a favorably adjudicated background investigation.   



All Contractor personnel provided with access to government-furnished computers and systems shall observe local AIS security policies and procedures as provided by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall notify the KO or COR within 12 hours when, for reasons of personnel resignation, reassignment, termination, or completion of portions of the contract, Contractor personnel no longer require access to government systems.



The Contractor shall observe all copyright agreements.  In the interest of protecting government systems from computer viruses, the Contractor shall not use public domain software nor shall Contractor personnel download software from public bulletin boards or Internet websites.  The Contractor shall use only commercial off-the-shelf (COTS), Contractor-developed, or government-furnished software in performance of the contract requirements.  Should the introduction of a computer virus or malicious destruction of computer software, stored information, or hardware result from the use of public domain software or from software taken from a public bulletin board or Internet website, the Contractor shall be required to repair the damage and incur all costs at no expense to the Government and without impact on delivery schedules.





2.7.1 CONTACT OF A SUSPICIOUS NATURE 

Contractor personnel who have been contacted under suspicious circumstances shall report that contact immediately, either verbally or in writing, to their supervisor who shall report it within two (2) hours to the KO or COR for action.  Key contacts for reporting purposes are defined as:



Contact with an individual (regardless of nationality) that suggests to the Contractor employee that an intelligence gathering or terrorist organization may have targeted him or her for possible intelligence exploitation.

A request by anyone (regardless of nationality) for illegal or unauthorized access to classified or unclassified sensitive information.

Contact with a known or suspected intelligence officer from any country.

Contact with a foreign diplomatic establishment, whether in the U.S. or abroad, for personal or official reasons.  Certain Contractor personnel in positions designated as “sensitive” by the Government may also be required to inform their chain of command in advance of the nature and reason for contacting a foreign diplomatic establishment or travel to countries on the State Department list whose interests may be adverse to the United States.



Additionally, Contractor personnel who have information about activities pertaining to espionage, terrorism, unauthorized technology transfer, sabotage, sedition, subversion, spying, treason, unauthorized release of classified or unclassified controlled information, or unauthorized intrusions into automated information systems shall report that information immediately to the KO or COR for action.  



2.7.2 SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION 

The Contractor shall not allow access or disclosure of information regarding the operations of DLA to any government agency, non-government agency, or individual unless specifically authorized by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall provide documents and files requested by such parties to the KO or COR within one hour of receipt of the authorized request.   



The Contractor may be required to access data and information that is proprietary to a government agency or contractor or that is of such nature that its dissemination and use other than as specified in this contract would be adverse to the interests of the Government or others.  The Contractor and its personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained under performance of this contract except to government personnel who are authorized to receive the information or upon written approval of the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend other than as specified in this contract.



Disclosure of information regarding operations and services of DLA to persons not entitled to receive it, or failure to safeguard any classified information that may come into the Contractor’s control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the Contractor, its agent, or its employees to criminal liability under USC Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 37, Espionage and Censorship, Sections 793, Gathering, Transmitting or Losing Defense Information, and Section 798, Disclosure of Classified Information.  Neither the Contractor nor its employees shall disclose or cause to be disseminated any information concerning the operations of the activity which could result in, or increase the likelihood of, the possibility of a breach of DLA’s security or interrupt the continuity of DLA’s operation.



2.7.3 POTENTIAL OPERATIONAL CONTRAINTS 

Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) may affect access to the host installations and DLA facilities.  The FPCON is established by the host installation or higher national command authorities, and the Installation Commander is responsible for implementing the proper response to progressive levels of terrorist threats.  FPCONs are normally displayed at most entrance gates, building entrances and office entrances.  The Contractor shall adhere to and operate IAW any restrictions imposed as a result of a FPCON. Measures implemented under the various levels of terrorist threat may impact the Contractor’s normal operational approach to IT support services.  The Contractor shall ensure that IT support services are sustained during heightened security measures.  



2.8 ENVIRONMENTAL, SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH (ESOH)

The Contractor shall formulate and maintain a written safety and health plan and make available to the Government upon request.  The written plan shall include the details of the Contractor’s responsibilities, method of program implementation, and how hazards and deficiencies shall be identified and corrected.  It shall detail Contractor personnel responsibilities for:  protection of Government property and safety of others, personnel responsibilities for reporting all mishaps, and establish procedures for reporting to correcting unsafe conditions, hazards, or practices.  The Contractor shall have a central POC for safety and health related issues.  The POC shall be identified in writing to the KO or COR.

The Contractor shall ensure employees have safety education when engaged in activities involving Government facilities, personnel, or equipment.

The Contractor shall notify the KO or COR immediately after the occurrence of all accidents and incidents resulting in either personal injury, loss of life, impact to the environment or property damage to a government facility or equipment.  The Contractor shall submit a completed copy of DLA Form 1591 and supplemental information within four (4) working days of the accident or incidents.

The Contractor shall require their personnel to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) (i.e. safety shoes or safety boots, hearing protection, eye protection, gloves, safety harnesses) during the performance of this contract in accordance with OSHA standards.  The Government will not be responsible for furnishing or paying for the cost of PPE.

The Contractor shall comply with all federal, state, and local environmental laws to include but not limited to Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Safe Water Drinking Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), and Federal Facilities Compliance Act (FFCA).



2.9 PREPAREDNESS EXERCISES

As directed by the KO or COR, the Contractor shall participate in preparedness exercises relating to security disaster preparedness and response, wartime response, and emergency and environmental and similar preparedness exercises.  

The Contractor shall participate in emergency and recall notification and personnel accountability exercises.  The Contractor shall establish emergency notification and recall and personnel accountability procedures in accordance with DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, and test those procedures twice a year when directed by the KO or COR.  During the exercise, the Contractor shall determine the status and whereabouts of assigned personnel, report the status of each Contractor employee to the KO or COR within established timelines, and continue to report periodic status until further direction by the KO or COR.  The Contractor shall follow their personnel accountability procedures in the event of a real emergency as directed by the KO or COR. 



2.10 PHASE-IN PERIOD

The Government reserves the right to include a phase-in period in any task orders where it is determined necessary. 

Within five (5) calendar days from the effective date of the task order, the Contractor shall complete all required hiring actions for the PM.  Within 20 calendar days of the effective date of the task order, the Contractor shall complete all hiring actions for personnel required to perform the requirements of the task order and complete any associated training and certification requirements. The Contractor shall ensure that all new employees are trained and ready to begin working on the first day of full performance.



SECTION 3 DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS

3.1 DOD DICTIONARY 

The DoD Dictionary of definitions and terms is available on the Internet at: .



3.2 ACRONYMS 









SECTION 4 GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP), SYSTEMS, TRAINING AND SUPPORT SERVICES 



4.1 	GENERAL INFORMATION 

The Government will provide access to resources and information to include Government transactional data systems required in the performance of this SOW.

The Government will furnish training for Contractor personnel on the Government data systems to be used in performance of this SOW.  

The Government will provide on-site office space with furniture, to include desktop computer and network printer, office supplies and desk telephone.  This office space will be located at DLA Distribution Susquehanna, PA.  

At no cost to the Contractor, the Government will furnish the services to be used exclusively to perform the requirements of this contract that include custodial services, refuse and recycling collection, government forms, emergency medical services, police and fire protection, telephone and utilities.

All materials, equipment or supplies (i.e. lift equipment, tools and parts) that contractor personnel will need to perform this requirement at DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA located at DLA Distribution Susquehanna; PA will be furnished by the Government.  

The Government will provide all hardware necessary for the Web Application upgrade.



SECTION 5 	CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING 

5.1 CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED TRAINING

The Contractor shall provide training (not designated as Government furnished) which may be required for Contractor personnel to comply with the contract requirements.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all costs associated with this training.  The Contractor shall maintain copies of training records, designation letters and certificates on site and make them available for the KO or COR to review upon request.  The training records shall include, at a minimum, the name of the employee, the name of the course, the source of the training, a description of the training provided and the date the employee successfully completed the training.  The Contractor shall furnish the following training:







COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (CTIP).  DoD requires Contractor employees to complete CTIP Computer Based Training (CBT) within 30 days of employment and thereafter on an annual basis.  Training time for the completion of this course is approximately 20 minutes.  This training is available online at .



INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IA).  This training is required for all employees with access to DoD computer systems.  This training is available via a web-based, self-taught course. This 40-minute course is part of the vital effort to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and non-repudiation of DLA information and data.  An employee failure to complete this training will result in loss of his/her access to DLA computer systems.  The KO or COR will provide the website address or required source for this training during phase-in and/or on an annual basis.  



SECURITY TRAINING.  The Government will provide the materials necessary for employee training in the following areas:

Counterintelligence.  IAW DoDI 5240.6, Counterintelligence (CI) Awareness and Briefing Program (Training time is 30 minutes or less).

Operational Security (OPSEC).  IAW DoDD 5205.2, DoD Operations Security Program (Training time is 60 minutes or less)

Antiterrorism Training.  IAW DoDD 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Program as directed by the KO or COR (Training time is 60 minutes).





INFORMATION ASSURANCE: Contractor personnel performing tasks associated with this SOW that will be performing an IA function shall be trained and certified in accordance with DoD Directive 8570.1 and DoD 8570.1M.  IA functions are defined in chapters 3 and 4 of the DoD 8570.1M.  Contractor personnel shall be certified at the appropriate IAT II Level in accordance with their designated function (labor category) as demonstrated by possessing one (1) of the authorized certifications listed in Table 2.4.1, IAT Certification Requirements. The Contractor shall identify personnel performing IA functions identified in the SOW prior to that employee commencing any work under Task Order SOW’S and provide documentation to the KO or COR showing the employee’s certification(s) and certification status.  The Contractor shall demonstrate that they have a process to track certification status of employees to ensure certifications are current or to replace departing employees with employees possessing current certifications in a manner that will not cause program interruption.  Contractor personnel shall be required to sign the User Access Agreement, Privileged Rules of Behavior, and General Rules of Behavior and non Discloser agreement prior to working on any government system(s).



EQUIPMENT OPERATION.  This training is required for all Contractor employees who operate motor vehicles, MHE, other equipment with the required licensing, certification, or specialized training.  Training includes but is not limited to the requirements identified in CFR Title 29, Part 1910.178; CFR Title 49; American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.13-1996, Storage/Retrieval (S/R) Machines and Associated Equipment; and DLAI 4500.36, Management, Acquisition, and Use of DLA Operating Equipment, Sections E3m and E3n; and Federal, State and Local Laws.  Refresher training is required at a minimum of every three years or when warranted in accordance with OSHA, DoD, and manufacturer’s guidance.



The Contractor shall provide safety equipment while performing hazardous duties in both the office and warehouse environments.  The required safety equipment may include, but is not limited to, safety shoes, glasses, harness, and lanyard.  





SECTION 6 		SPECIFIC TASKS



This section provides a general outline of the scope of the work and the representative types of tasks that the Contractor may be required to perform under this contract.



APPLICATION MAINTENANCE



This Section includes but is not limited to general task requirements that may be included in totality or in part for specific task orders issued.




6.1.1 Application maintenance support shall be provided on all of the applications listed in the table below.  This includes application configuration, troubleshooting and problem resolution Enterprise wide.  



WEB Application support Table:






**It is estimated during the five year term of the contract that there will be approximately a 15% variance in the number of web applications listed in the above table. 



**It is estimated that the three conversions identified below will occur in the following chronological order as planned by DLA Information Operations. Further information about each application to have a conversion is listed above in the table. 

. 

	TERM	                 WEB APPLICATION 	

	Base Year:                         POP

          Option Year 1;                   ISP 

          Option Year 2:	              Prelodge 





All user and user group roles must be maintained and updated as necessary to meet user requirements and ensure data security.

   .

The Contractor shall use DLA Distribution’s Distribution Standard System (DSS), data dictionary and schema functionality, which are structured in both IBM DB2 and Computer Associates (CA) Datacom database platforms. DSS is an automated information system that manages all functional business processes of DoD's warehouse operations. These processes include receiving, storage, consolidation, packing, shipping, inventory, inspection, and workload management. The system includes both commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software packages and developed application software. DSS operates in an IBM mainframe compatible environment and supports inventory management and workload control functions. It manages the performance of the mainline distribution functions: receipt, stow, pick, pack, and ship. A relational database is maintained to track the quantity and location of depot stock items. Communication is gained through a combination of interfaces, specified transactions, and file transfers.

The Contractor shall test all data and ensure 100% data integrity and error-free load checking on all products provided.  Therefore, a constant output, which tests and proves the data output is the same as data retrieved from source shall be available first thing each morning.



Address all issues related to Web-based system performance in accordance with (IAW) the Acceptable Performance Levels (APLs) identified in the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP).



 The operation documentation shall be modified prior to moving application to production to incorporate any change that may be required.



 The Continuation of Operations (COOP) Procedures shall be updated when a change is made that will affect bringing the processing-related programs online at the backup COOP location.



Provide technical support and resolution for software installation and configuration issues.  



Trouble tickets shall be input, updated and maintained using the existing Remedy Help Desk software application.



 For maintenance resolutions, the Contractor shall notify, in writing, the KO, or designee, and the DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland liaison of the application problem resolution.



Attend meetings with the KO, or COR, to discuss milestones, task status, concerns, and any issues that would impact progress.  Discussions may include major projects such as new Enterprise application requirements or existing application changes/upgrades.





  PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT / CHANGE SUPPORT REQUIRMENTS



Development/Change duties apply to all web based applications in support of the DLA Distribution Enterprise.  All the development and change requirements below will be completed each time an application is created/changed or upgraded. Activities under this task area may include but are not limited to:







Identify specifications based on customer requirements, to determine the level of effort required.

Requirements Analysis

  Functional Design:   Application purpose, justification, description, and data fields

  UI Design:   Interfaces, Screens, Fonts, Attributes, etc. (Cosmetics) using 508 compliance measures.

  System Design:   Hardware and Software configuration platform baseline and compatibility  identification



All development and change programming for distribution applications must be within compliance of the Section 508 (handicap-accessibility) laws and code.



Work with the customer to get the CCB Approval request composed and sent to the CCB for 
 review. 



Upon CCB approval, create Conceptual Design:  Application/Database/Information-base structure and layout, record definition and layouts, data field definition, end-user interfaces, screens, and drop-down menus, text and graphical issues (fonts, attributes, etc.), etc.  Business Rules are defined in accordance with the Customer Requirements.  The Contractor shall submit concept and design documentation outlining the database schema and structures, data flow, error-checking, data normalization, security, views, and web reports for approval to the KO, or designee, for approval.



Application Development and Coding:  Create application software coding. Document the code explaining what the block of code is doing and any other helpful information.



Development Testing:  Incremental testing during the initial coding and development phases in a non-production/testing environment.



Production Testing:  Performed after Application Development and Coding phase/step is completed.  Testing of the overall integrity of the code in relation to the complete system performance in a staging environment. 



Customer Acceptance Testing: Testing begins during the Production Testing phase/step.  During this phase/step, the customer actually tests the limitations of the products to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer/end-user ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer/end-user. 



Documentation



End-User:   Overviews and End-User Manuals (Definition and instructions on how to use the application)

Functional Administrator/Coordinator: Overviews and Manuals (may be same as or similar to end-user documentation); typically, the purpose of the application, description, data fields used, problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.

Technical/Help Desk:  Overviews and Manuals for technical support staff; e.g. DBAs (database analysts/administrators), system/server administrators, etc.; typically, the data and database structures, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.



Training and/or Training Plan Package:  Training can be delivered in a variety of formats, using a variety of vehicles – e.g. classroom, computer-based training (CBT), video teleconference (VTC), etc., using manuals, videotape, DVD-ROM, CD-ROM, etc.  Types of training include end-user, functional administrator/coordinator, and technical/help desk



End-User: Training should be focused on the access and use of the application being developed to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training modules should be developed as follows:  (1) Application Basic Overview and User Access, (2) Screens – Access and Use (correlation between application use and job/mission requirement).  The target audience for this training/training package is application end-users, and functional administrators and coordinators.

Functional Administrator/Coordinator:   Training should be focused on the purpose and description of the application; data fields used and defined application problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc. to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training support areas: Application Overview, Purpose and Description, Record Layouts and Data Fields, Problem Identification, Troubleshooting, and Resolution, Problem Escalation and Referral, etc. The target audience for this training/training package is functional project and team leads, and/or functional administrators and coordinators.

Technical/Help Desk (DBA and System/Server Admin):	Training should be focused on the purpose and description of the application, data and database structures used and defined, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc. to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training modules should be developed that reflect the aforementioned support areas:

Application Overview:  Purpose and Description,

Data and Database Structures – including record layouts and field descriptions and attributes,

Problem Identification, Troubleshooting, and Resolution,

Problem Escalation and Referral, etc.

The target audiences for this training/training package are technical and help desk support personnel.



Application Deployment:  The actual rollout of the application, including distribution and installation of that application.



Final Acceptance Testing:  Not completed until application development and deployment have been completed.  Testing begins during the final stages of application development, and continues through application deployment.  During this phase/step, the customer tests the limitations of the products in a full production environment to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer/end-user has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer/end-user ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer/end-user.  If customer/end-user formally ‘accepts’ the application (signs and dates an acceptance form/contract), on the date/time when the application was accepted, the ‘manufacturer’s’ warranty period for the application begins.  



Developer signs release forms that the Web application and all associated products are compliant with Section 508, the Mobile Code Policy, internal security requirements, and other DoD, DLA, and DLA Distribution policies.



The Contractor shall test all applications on the DLA Distribution Web Development Server after changes are complete prior to production testing on the Staging Server and finally deploying to the 64-bit production environment.  



The Contractor shall implement the necessary modifications to the server hosted databases in accordance with optimal design for data insert, update and query retrieval performance.



The Contractor shall update the Source Code documentation that includes ASP pages, DLLs (source prior to executable) stored procedures, etc. reflecting the application change.



The Contractor shall notify the appropriate team leads and respective Program Coordinator, and DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland liaison, when the application development/changes have been completed/resolved and estimated timeframe to migrate solution/resolution into the Production application.



Attend meetings with the KO, or designee, to discuss milestones, task status, concerns, and any issues that would impact progress.  Discussions may include major projects such as Enterprise PC replacements, installation, upgrades or software upgrades.



Application Rationalization is an on-going project which evaluates all the functionality of the applications to determine their future uses for DLA Distribution. Web Applications and activities under this task area may include but are not limited to:





The contractor will be tasked with analyzing approximately 60 WEB Applications and providing the Government with the analysis. 



The rationalization project is estimated to take place during the Base Year and first Option year of the contract.  



Table of Web Applications that need Rationalization: 











6.3.3 Working with the business personnel at DLA Distribution Headquarters, DLA Information Operations New Cumberland (IONC) is tasked with determining the future of all applications listed in the above table. Below A though F are the outcomes for the above WEB Applications that are being analyzed. 



Our currents Courses of Action are:



A. Centralize application at DLA (IONC), Roll functionality into DSS or another Enterprise   Application. The application has been deemed useful for all sites and the functionality can be rolled into DSS or another Enterprise Application in an agreed upon timeframe.  Until that timeframe, the application will be centralized and maintained at DLA IONC.   New development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.  The development and maintenance will continue until the functionality is moved into DSS or another Enterprise Application.  Once in DSS or another Enterprise Application the application will be sunset.

Centralize application at DLA IONC, Expand functionality to all DLA Distribution Sites



The application has been deemed useful for all sites and expansion to all sites will be completed in an agreed upon timeframe.  The application will be centralized and maintained at DLA IONC.  New development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.  Level of effort will need to be established and vetted for the new global application between DLA Distribution DLA Logistics Operations (J3)/Customer Support (J4) personnel and J6N personnel before beginning the expansion piece of the application.

Centralize application at DLA IONC, Sunset application in X number of years.



The application has been deemed unique for the location and supports the DLA Distribution Mission.  The application will be centralized at DLA IONC.  J3/J4 has determined that the application is no longer necessary at the site and will be sunset in an agreed upon timeframe.  No new development will be done on the application.  Only troubleshooting and repair on the current functionality will be done by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.



Centralize application at DLA IONC, Functionality will remain unique to site



The application has been deemed unique for the location and supports the DLA Distribution Mission.  The application will be centralized at DLA IONC and all new development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.

No centralization, Sunset application in X number of years



The application has been deemed unique for the location and centralization of the application is not possible to due latency or response issues.  The application also may not support the DLA Distribution Mission Support and does not need to be centrally located.  J3/J4 has determined that the application is no longer necessary at the site and will be sunset in an agreed upon timeframe.  No new development will be done on the application.  Only troubleshooting and repair on the current functionality will be done by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.

No centralization, Functionality will remain unique to site



The application has been deemed unique for the location and centralization of the application is not possible to due latency or response issues.  The application also may not support the DLA Distribution Mission Support and does not need to be centrally located.  For example, the site has developed an application for use by the site Fire Department.  The continued development of the application will now reside with the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.





The Contractor will carry out the following Application rationalization analysis in the following order: 



A. Identify all apps, owners, number of users, and availability

B. Analyze the code, security, functionality, and status

C.  Determine if the app has an alternative or should be made Enterprise

D. Calculate sustainment, update/migrate, and rewrite costs

E. Create decision making criteria

F. Weekly meetings and briefs

G. Create supporting documents and update weekly



POTENTIAL ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS

DLA Information Operations is anticipating a potential surge of new requirements, based on the findings in the on-going Application Rationalization Project, identified above.  The following are the applications most likely to be designated ‘Enterprise’ apps. Additionally, DLA may choose to deploy other WEB Applications to the Enterprise other than those listed in the below table during the term of this contract. This will require rewrites of the existing applications to provide the functionality and portability to expand capabilities for DLA Distribution locations CONUS and OCONUS.  DLA Distribution currently has approximately 13K users.  Not all users will require access to applications listed below but some subset will require usage across all sites as these applications are taken to the Enterprise.  This will also require additional man hours, as configured below:







** In the advent the Government chooses to have any of the above WEB Applications deployed to the Enterprise. Upon completion of the Web Application Deployment the Application will fall under section 6.1 for maintenance, support and upgrades as needed.

CONTRACTOR IDENTIFICATION AND COMMUNICATION

A.  During performance of the service requirements set forth in Task Order SOW’s, all Contractor personnel shall introduce themselves or shall ensure they are introduced as Contractor employees and shall display distinguishing badges.  Contractor personnel shall also appropriately identify themselves as contractor employees in telephone conversations and in formal and informal written correspondence.

6.4 PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY 

The Contractor shall maintain care of all Government-furnished property.  At all times during the performance of the contract requirements, title to the mission stock and all other government-furnished property shall remain vested with the Government.  In exercising care and custody, the Contractor shall safeguard all Government-furnished property.



The Contractor shall provide the proper protection for material under their custody and control.  If there is a loss the Contractor shall immediately notify the KO or COR. 

6.4.1 LIABILITY FOR GOVERNMENT PROPERTY 

The Contractor shall be held financially liable for loss, damage, or destruction of government property caused by negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use.  The KO or COR will make the pecuniary liability determination when a Contractor’s negligence results in loss, damage, or destruction of Government property.



The Contractor shall:

Notify the KO or COR immediately when it discovers the gain, loss, damage or destruction of government equipment or property.  

Conduct an initial search and/or informal investigation into the loss or damage of equipment or property and forward all research data to the KO or COR.

Cooperate in any subsequent investigations.

6.4.2 IDEMNIFICATION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 

The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and hold it harmless against claims for injury to persons or damage to property of the Contractor or others arising from the Contractor’s possession or use of the government facilities, from its activities, or from its use, care and custody of the mission stock and government equipment and supplies relating to the performance of this contract. 



When the KO or COR determines that any loss, damage or destruction of mission stock or other government property is caused by the Contractor’s negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use, the KO or COR may off-set payments under the contract by the determined value of the loss, damage or destruction.  The Contractor’s liability per occurrence shall be limited to $50,000 with a total limit of liability of $1,000,000 per year.  This limit of liability does not apply to the Government’s right to indemnification.

6.5 RECORDKEEPING 

The Contractor shall utilize the designated Time and Project Tracking System to input consolidated time spent per day on each assigned task using predetermined codes that will be provided within the tracking system.



The Contractor shall utilize the designated Incident Ticket Tracking System to identify, schedule, and complete all trouble call actions and requests. 



All documentation, record and databases, as described in this SOW, are the property of the Government.



6.6 NOTICE REGARDING LATE DELIVERY



The contractor shall notify the COR, as soon as it becomes apparent to the contractor, that a scheduled delivery will be late. The contractor shall include in the notification the rationale for late delivery, the expected date for the delivery and the project impact of the late delivery. The COR will review the new schedule and provide guidance to the contractor. Such notification in no way limits the Government's right to any and all rights and remedies up to and including termination.



6.7 CONTRACTOR MANPOWER REPORTING



The Contractor shall report all contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this contract for the Defense Logistics Agency via a secure data collection site. The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the following web address: http://www.ecmra.mil/. Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30. While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2014. Contractors may direct questions to the help desk at help desk at: http://www.ecmra.mil.





6.8 SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS 



Section 508 must be considered as a requirement on the delivered content to assure that it includes data and/or knowledge appropriate to specific Section 508 accessibility requirements. Solicitation respondents must describe how their experience and skills will result in Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) deliverables meet at least those technical provisions identified as applicable in the attached Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT), Software Development Services. The standards in the GPAT define the types of technology covered and set forth provisions that establish a minimum level of accessibility. Only proposals which contain adequate information to document their responsiveness to the Section 508 requirements (e.g. a completed GPAT, VPAT or equivalent and supporting documentation).



6.9 QUALITY CONTROL PLAN

DLA is committed to a highly interactive relationship between quality control by the Contractor and quality assurance by the government recipient of services.  This relationship shall be achieved through a Prevention Based Quality System dedicated to ensuring the best possible products and services to DLA end users.  The Contractor shall provide their final QCP no later than (NLT) 10 calendar days after the start of full performance in accordance with paragraph 6.5B.

The Contractor’s quality system shall demonstrate its prevention-based outlook by meeting the objectives stated in the SOW throughout all areas of performance (e.g., all functional areas, all APL and non-APL requirements).  The QCP shall be developed to specify the Contractor’s responsibility for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract.  Within 24 hours of completion, the Contractor shall provide to the KO or COR, all reports generated as a result of the Contractor’s quality control efforts.  This shall include any summary information used to track quality control, including any charts/graphs.

The Contractor’s QCP shall be incorporated into and become part of this contract after the plan has been accepted by the Government.  Changes made after KO approval shall be submitted in writing to the KO for review and acceptance.  The Contractor’s QCP shall be maintained throughout the life of the contract and shall include the Contractor’s procedures to routinely evaluate the effectiveness of the plan to ensure the Contractor is meeting the performance standards and requirements of the contract.

DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA located at DLA Distribution Susquehanna. PA will implement a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to ensure the contractor provides the required services and adheres to quality standards as specified in each Task Order SOW.  The KO or COR shall monitor performance.  This monitoring by the KO or COR shall be carried out via the QASP as identified in the attachment to Task Order SOW entitled, “Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). This QASP document shall also ensure the Contractor’s QCP effectiveness and provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the Contractor is required to furnish.  



6.7 DELIVERABLES



The Contractor shall create and distribute reports, QCP’s, quick reference guides and training documents for the Government to administer performance of the contract requirements and to manage and interface with other government activities or agencies.  The items below are a sample listing of required reports outlined in the contract.  The Contractor shall submit all reports to the COR for review and final distribution.





Upon contract award, DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland IT Ops representative(s) will consult with Contractor representatives to provide an overview of current and proposed web application program configurations.



The Contractor shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Liability Insurance to the KO, or designee.



The Contractor shall provide a Quality Control Plan (QCP) to the KO, or designee, within 10 days after contract award.  The document shall be updated at least quarterly to reflect any changes in goals, strategies, and circumstances.  



The Contractor shall provide weekly status updates to the KO, or designee, to include any issues that would impact completion date of any assigned support tasks.  



The Contractor shall, upon request, attend and participate in meetings with KO, or designee, or alternates to discuss required tasks, concerns, and any issues.



Documentation of changes made to resolve any operating problems. Documentation of change made must include:



All source code, including ASP pages, DLLS, Stored Procedures, etc. in all completed/changed application modifications. 



All permissions and configurations of each file and/or virtual directory.



All forms with customer approvals, signature verification that applicable policies; i.e. Section 508, Mobile Code, etc. and other requirements were followed and implemented.  



The Contractor shall provide complete Training Packages on changed applications, which include the following materials:  



End-User Manual – use of the application.   



Functional Administrator/Coordinator Manual – Maintenance, Upkeep, and Restoration of the application. 



Technical Manual with in-depth technical design.  The manual shall show the technical coordinator the necessary steps and files needed to successfully build the application from scratch to support a Disaster recovery/COOP requirement.  Also, the technical manual must include the workflow, layout, data dictionary, source code, and other technical information of the application.



The completed Web Application Maintenance Sheet.



Written recommendations included in the weekly status update for corrective Web application solutions that are less cumbersome and that are more cost effective to the end user and/or program managers.





Certification and Acceptance

The KO or designee is designated as the point of final inspection and acceptance by the Government of all items and services required by the contract.  





	END OF STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)







Observed Federal Holidays



New Year’s Day 

Martin Luther King Day 

Presidents Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day

Labor Day

Columbus Day

Veterans Day

Thanksgiving Day

Christmas Day



Approving Authority

Certification

Requirement

DoD Approved IAT Level II Baseline Certifications

GSEC, Security+, SCNP, SSCP 

Personnel performing work must have and maintain a minimum of (1) certification at the IAT II. 

DoD Approved IAT Level III Baseline Certifications

CISA, GSE, GCIH or CISSP (or Associate)

Personnel performing work must have and maintain a minimum of (1) certification at the IAT II. 



Development Apps & Tools

Languages

Databases

Third Party Libraries

IT Infrastructure

Visual Studio 2008 & 2010

Team Foundation Server

Altova XMLSpy

DataStudio

Crystal Reports

IIS 7.0 – 7.5

.NET Framework 2.0 – 4.0

508 Compliance



VB6

DHTML/XHTML

PL-SQL

Perl

VB.NET

T-SQL

ASP.NET

C#

Classic Asp

XML	

JavaScript

VB Script



DB2

ORACLE 11g

MS Access

Oracle 10g 

Computer Associates
  Datacom

SQL Server 2003/2008R2



NHibernate

ActiveReports 

SQLite

Data ETL

MS Office 2010

Active Directory

BMC Remedy

SFTP

SharePoint 2010

IBM MQ Series



Development Apps & Tools

Languages

Databases

Third Party Libraries

IT Infrastructure

IIS 7.0 – 7.5

.NET Framework 2.0 – 4.0

508 Compliance



VB.NET

T-SQL

ASP.NET

C#

Classic Asp

XML	

JavaScript

VB Script



SQL Server 2003/2008R2










SYMBOL

DEFINITION

GIAC

Global Information Assurance Certification

GSEC

GIAC Security Essentials Certification

SCCP

Systems Security Certified Practitioner

CISA

Certified Information Systems Auditor

GSE

GIAC Security Expert

GCIH

GIAC Certified Incident Handler

CISSP

Certified Information Systems Security Professional

MCDST

Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician

MCITP

Microsoft Certified IT Professional

EDST

Enterprise Desktop Support Technician

EDA

Enterprise Desktop Administrator

MCM

Microsoft Certified Master

MCSA

Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate

MCSE

Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert

MCTS

Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist

MCP

Microsoft Certified Professional

CCNA

CISCO Certified Network Associate

CCIE

CISCO Certified Internetwork Expert

ESE

Enterasys System Engineer

SCNA

Sun Solaris Certified Network Administrator

CCNP

CISCO Certified Network Professional

CCSP

CISCO Certified Security Professional

NSA

EC-Council Network Security Administrator

ECIE-C

Enterasys Certified Internetworking Engineer for Infrastructure



COURSE

COMPLETION DATE

REFRESHER TRAINING

Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP)

Prior to the end of phase-in

Annual

Information Assurance (IA)

Within 30 days after the employee is granted access to the DLA network

Annual

Security Training

Prior to the end of phase-in

Annual



Application

Description or Notes

Source code language

Source code language

DB Backend

Est. User Count

DD Sites Supported

Application

Description or Notes

current

conversion

DB Backend

Est. User Count

DD Sites Supported

POP

Oriented Packaging is a DLA Distribution Web App that displays POP packaging data that meets design qualification testing requirements. POP needs a code rewrite to meet STIG. (80% done)





Classic ASP with COM+ dlls

ASP.Net 3.5

VB.Net

C#

MSSQL 2008R2

250

DOD

WebMIS

MIS (Management Information System) uses the data from the Distribution Standard System (DSS) to develop performance, workload and billing statistics.   Statistics are displayed on line in accordance with the requested level of detail through predetermined screen designs. WebMIS needs a code change to give the user the ability to add a depot to prevent an admin user from taking out the database.



ASP.Net /VB.net

MS Excel



MSSQL 2008R2

350

DLA Distribution

PAWS

Contracting tool for J7 to modify and update contracting information. E-procurement replaced but is still being used because there is a lack of functionality in e-procurement.

.Net 2.0 VB.net



MSSQL 2008R2

80

J7

DLAUserIDGen

Used to create and manage new userIDs for the Access Management team. Not working right and currently on stand-by.



.Net 4.0 C#



MSSQL 2008R2

10

J6N

ISP

Employee DB

Audits

Emp Performance

Employee work analysis tool. Includes Employee work related information to include photo.  Initially pulled from Lenel, is currently being updated from Classic ASP to .Net 4.0 with functionality to update photos and additional information not currently supplied in class ASP app.  Also include Audit update/analysis

Classic ASP

ASP.Net 4.0 C#



MSSQL 2008r2

D2B

Mgrs

DDSP

DDWG

MPC

Web Materiels Processing Center – used by all depots – local collection point

ASP.Net/

VB.Net





200

DLA Distribution

Outloading

Container booking and scheduling.  Users periodically request interface changes

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

20

DDSP

Overtime

Schedule employee overtime work w/union parameters. Sub part of ISP.  Currently being used at DDSP.

Relies heavily on timely Employee DB (ISP Application) updates

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

80

DDSP

PDO Processing

Warehouse staff track materiel returned for PDO

Classic ASP





10

DDSP

Prelodge

Used by DDSP transportation and security staff to schedule and track truck traffic.

Users have a long standing request for a public interface to this system that is supposedly being addressed by changes to the DSS system, but as of Feb2013 have no update on the status of this.

Classic ASP

ASP.Net 4.0

C#

MS SQL 2008R2

25

DDSP

QBO/QBD

Used by depots for querying the owner/location of NIINs (Navy Sites)

ASP.net/ VB.net





100

All DLA Dist.

QBO/QBD (Navy)

Used by Navy for querying the owner/location of NINs

ASP.net/ VB.net







Navy

Training Calendar

Schedule training and rooms at DDSP

Classic ASP





100

DDSP

Automated Training System (ATS)

This is used for training that hasn’t been offered thru LMS

Classic ASP





2200

DDSP

Internal Package Delivery Tracking (IntraTrac)

This system provides a means of entering, distributing, and reporting on packages delivered to internal depot addresses.



Classic ASP





300

DDSP

CAC Appointment Calendar

Calendar for scheduling CAC replacements with Pass & ID

Classic ASP



MS Access

All DDSP 

DDSP

Parts Room

3rd Party Application that tracks parts used in inventory

VB6



MS Access

7

DDSP

DDSP IT Inventory

Application that tracks IT inventory and location on depot

Classic ASP





20

DDSP

MRO Cycle Tracking

Provides MRO data by distribution depot

Classic ASP





1000

DLA Distribution

Next Scheduled Departure (NSD)

Schedules dedicated truck shipments by customer delivery date/schedule

ASP .net/ VB .net



MQ Replication to DB2

25

DDSP

DDJC

DDYJ

DDDE

Work Counts

DSS Web App which keeps track of how many CCP Receipts 

Classic ASP



MQ Replication to  DB2

350

DLA Distribution

Device Tracking

Tracks ScanGun assignments.  May require future updates 

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2



DDSP

Radio Tracking

Used to assign radios for inventory tracking. May require future updates 

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

35

DDSP

Awards Store

Online catalog store app for management to provide awards for employees

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

50

DDSP

DOTS **

Dispatch Order Tracking System

Classic ASP    





MS SQL 2008R2

800+

DDOO

FITS **

Facility Inventory Tracking System -- Tracking HelpDesk and Shop Stock Information

Classic ASP 





MS SQL 2008R2

39

DDOO

FITS-GPC **

Facility Inventory Tracking System – General Purchasing System for tracking credit card purchases

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

492

DDOO

TrukTrak **

Tracking trailer to stow off load time or commercial inbound trucks in receiving.

Classic ASP 

 



MS SQL 2008R2

79

DDOO

DOTS -RedBall **

Stickers sub-app is part of the Dispatch Order Tracking System

Classic ASP  





MS SQL 2008R2

55

DDOO

DOTS – Customer Service **

Customer Complaints tracker

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

24

DDOO

Data Center Access **

Tracks request for access to the DataCenter or other security areas as needed.

ASP.Net/C#





25

J6N

GreenBelt **

Used for tracking GreenBelt mentoring. (Six Sigma)

ASP .Net



MS SQL 2008R2

50

DDSP



Acronym

Full Name

Description

No of Users

Used by

Format

2010 Soft Suite

PII

Risk

SharePoint Sites Allowed

DOTS                                                    

Dispatch Order Tracking System  CR797 3-22

Database for tracking local delivers from request to delivery.

800+

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

DOTS-REDBALL        

REDBALL Security Tracking and Accountability System  CR798 3-22

Database for tracking classified material to be inducted, stowed and shipped with the steps in Redball system to include Access, Discovery, Transferring, Acceptance, Inducting, Stow, Check Out and In, Local Pick, Deliver, Pick up, Mission pick, Packed, Retire and Lost or Unusable.

55

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

DOTS-CUSTOMER SERVICE        

Dispatch Order Tracking System - Customer Service CR797 3-22

Database for tracking customer complaints in Inventory.

24

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

TRUKTRAK                                        

TruckTrak CR796 3-22

Database for tracking Trailer to Stow off load time for commercial inbound trucks in receiving. 

79

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

FITS-GPC                                           

Facility Inventory Tracking System - General Purchasing System CR799 3-22

Database for tracking credit card purchases for the Depot.  

492

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

FITS                                                       

Facility Inventory Tracking System CR799 3-22

Database for tracking facility work orders.  At one time also tracked IT work orders. Currently only used by facilities for maintenance work orders.  

39

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

COOPSQL/ COOP

COOPSQL/ COOP

The primary front end is a web interface found on our home page called COOP.  There is also a second front end consisting of an It is used for providing DODAAC address information, and stock location/catalog data for both Sharpe and Tracy sites in the event DSS is not available.  Web front end to microsoft office.  One is SQL server which is not Microsoft Office.  

20

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

ESOC

Emergency Supply Operations Center

Used to check status of emergency requisitions in the ESOC data base and DSS.  Users do not access ESOC database through the web.  There are about 40 to 50 users.  Users are primarily Customer Support Office in Transportation.  The Shipment Planning group has read access.  

~

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Box Shop Request

Tracks work requests from Divisions input via Intranet.  Box office - thru microsoft office? 

~

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

CCP Research

San Joaquin Research Material list <Consolidation Container point realize bundling of customer material- production home 

~1000

DDJC

Not in use

 

 

 

 

 

Commander's Hotline

Employee's hot line to Commander instead of fax to secretary 

~1000

DDJC

 

 

 

 

 

 

Device Tracking

Logs high value portable devices in and out Scan guns, no issues (DDSP) written 10 yrs ago at DDSP and works for DDJC… 

250

DDJC

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic Asp)

 

 

Facilities Maintenance Customer Comment

  Online comment reporting for customers                                         

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Facilities Maintenance Request

Online request for facilities work Support Tab                                   

200

DDJC

.net

 

 

 

 

 

GSA Query

Web front end to microsoft access  Production Tab Used to query imported data from GSA to research shipments in CCP Freight terminal

50

DDJC

.net

 

 

 

X

 

Mishap Notification

Employee mishap reporting  for injury/illness,  motor vehicle or property damage sends email msg “heads up 

250

DDJC

.NET

Outlook

X

 

 

 

NANA Vehicle Maintenance Request

NANA Vehicle Maintenance Request Submission Form Contractor who manages physical facilities at depot web pg sends email  

50

DDJC

.net

Outlook

 

 

X

 

Open Lines Reports

OPEN WORKLOAD SUMMARY web front end to Microsoft access 

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Open Re-Warehousing Actions

DSS improvement visibility of different DSS conditions that first line mgrs use in warehouse 

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

Phone Book

Online phonebook inquiry for DLA Distribution San Joaquin web front end access db  

1000

DDJC

.net

Outlook

X

Users agree to risk of PII

X

 

Ride Sharing Bulletin Board

It was created for one of the Depot Support Group offices that wanted an online carpool information. Web application sql server backend web front end Employee Services Transportation

300

DDJC

.NET

 

X

 

X

 

Single Loc TPIC V Counts

DSS information web query to oracle datamart as backend. DSS Query of MTR, MRC, RCI tables,  SFTP Oracle multiple times a day. DDJC. Reside in DDJC.         

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

Suggestion Program

DDJC employees submit process improvement suggestions.  Web front end to SQL server backend 

1000

DDJC

.Net

Outlook

 

 

X

 

Unscheduled Downtime

Created for the Depot Operations Group, the app is a web form that supervisors fill out and submit whenever anything affects their productivity such as loss of DSS connectivity.  The data is stored in a SQL Server database for later analysis and is immediately forwarded via email to a distribution list of depot managers and technical personnel.  This provides a "heads up" notification of problems.  Web front end 

250

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

VPP Ergo Request Form

The Ergo request form is an easy method for DLA San Joaquin personnel to formally request an ergonomic workstation or task evaluation (POC services) and for us to document requests for POC services.  Web front end Support Safety Tab

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Vehicle Maintenance Queries

 Query used to search vehicle maintenance logs, vehicle meter readings, and excess equipment list.  Web front end  to Microsoft access db Support Tab

50

DDJC

.Net

 

 

 

X

 

Visitor Notifications

Visitor Notifications for Visitors, Contractors, Incoming Carriers Web front end  to Microsoft access db Support Tab

50

DDJC

.Net

 

 

 

X

 

Workload Reports

DSS information on workloads Web front end  to summary data downloaded DSS each day, Production Tab

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

DSS Pick Data

Consists of records downloaded from DSS table AHD (AD-HOC-DISP-REC). There are two links to this database from our webpage:  Ad Hoc Delinquent Report and Ad Hoc Discrepancy Report. Web front end  oracle db Production Tab. DSS Query of PPR,MMR, and MAR tables. SFTP Oracle multiple times a day.  DDJC. 

1000

DDJC

.NET

 

 

Security (FTP)

 

Awards Store

Awards Store (DDSP)

Online catalog store app for management to provide awards for employees/recently changed /people use maybe not 50?                         

50

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 X

ATS

Automated Training System

This application is used by DDSP staff to provide and manage training material. The system also automatically tracks training requirements by employee and supervisor.

~2200

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Data Center Access

DataCenter Access

Tracks request for access to the Data Center or other security areas as needed.  As of June 2011, J6N Data Center is only location being tracked.

25

J6N/Dist HQ/DDSP

ASP.NET/C Sharp

 

X

 

X

ISP

Individual Standards Performance

This application is used by DDSP warehouse staff to track production and employee productivity.(CR00549 ITCR Review Mar CTO) Used Daily

Mgrs

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Inventory

Inventory

DDSP IT Hardware tracking/in use not sure who

20

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Out loading

Out loading

This application is used by DDSP transportation and warehouse staff to schedule the loading, pickup, and departure point of outbound containers. /in use not sure who

20

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Overtime

Overtime-subportion ISP

This application is used by DDSP staff to schedule employee overtime work. As required by union contract, overtime must be offered by a combination of location, seniority, and previous overtime hours worked. This application uses these factors to provide the supervisor with a list of appropriate employees eligible for overtime work.

80

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Parts Room

Parts Room

This application is used by DDSP maintenance staff to manage parts inventory. This application runs as a service and sends daily email reports of parts used.  Standalone.  Box keeps track parts inventory.

7

DDSP

 

 

 

 

 

PDO Processing

PDO Processing

This application is used by DDSP warehouse staff to track materiel returned for PDO.

10

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Prelodge

Prelodge

This application is used by DDSP transportation and security staff to schedule and track truck traffic.  Webtrack sched trucks.

25

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

PAWS

Procurement Action Workload System

This application is used by J7 to facilitate the awarding and modifying of contracts. Used daily.

80

DLA Dist

ASP.NET/Visual Basic

 

X

 

 

(CR00333)QMSIT

Quality Management Scheduling & Inspection Tool

Pro, DDSP, Training, Distribution-QC (QMT recently went through ITCR  process and was approved) Approved.  The ITCR was updated. - Dec

~

DDSP

 

 

X

 

 

Radio Tracking

Radio Tracking

These applications are used by DDSP warehouse staff to track the usage of high-dollar portable equipment (handheld radios and RF guns). Supervisors assign this equipment to employees and scan tracking information (CAC code and device serial number) into the database.

35

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Remedy

Remedy

Online (mid-tier) version of Remedy 

500

J6N

 

 

X

 

 

TCN Tracker

Transportation Control Number (TCN) Tracker

This application is used by DDSP transportation staff to track packages by (TCN) and to correct billing issues. For instance, in December of 2009 this application saved over $80,000 by finding shipments billed but not delivered correctly (late, no signature, etc.) 

 

 

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Training Calendar

Training Calendar

This application is used by DDSP training staff to manage training room availability.

100

DDSP

Classic ASP

Use Outlook or SharePoint

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

MRO Cycle Tracker

MRO Cycle Tracker

Web-based MRO tracker provides data by distribution depot used. The Distribution Standard System (DSS) MRO Tracking System allows the user to enter a requisition number and obtain the current status of previously processed requisitions 
Web-based MRO tracker provides data by distribution depot. 

~1000

ALL DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic ASP)

 

WebMIS

Web Management Information System

MIS (Management Information System) uses the data from the Distribution Standard System (DSS) to develop performance, workload and billing statistics.   Statistics are displayed on line in accordance with the requested level of detail through predetermined screen designs. used

350

All DLA Dist

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

Security (FIPS cannot be applied) Conflicts with Apose.Excel

 

Workcounts

Workcounts

A DSS Web App to keep track of how many CCP Receipt,  , Mission Receipt, Stow Putaway, Pick includes mission/re-warehouse and Pack. ALL DLA DistJ6N Supported WebApp of replicated DSS data performance counts; MQ Replication to DB2 LUW.Classis ASP;  DB2 DB 

350

All DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic ASP)

 

Web MPC

Web Material Processing Center

Web enabled MPC providing local collection point for ships / functions at a Navy installation without warehousing.  Run by both DLA and Navy depending on site  used

~200

NAVY sites

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

 

 

POP

Performance Oriented Packaging

DLA Distribution Web App that displays POP packaging data that meets design qualification testing requirements. used

~

All DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic Asp)

 

QBD/QBO

Owner Asset Records (QBD-QBO)

This application is used by the depots for querying the owner/location of NIINsused  NAVY SITES QBO/QBD is a WebApp of Replicated DSS Owner/Location tables supported via MQ Rep on DB2 LUW   

~

All DLA Dist

ASP.Net VB

 

 

 

 

NSD

Next Scheduled Departure (NSD)

Schedules dedicated truck shipments by customer delivery date/schedule dataused  DSS WebApp  with replicated DSS data via MQ Replication to DB2 LUW.

25

DDSP, DDJC, DDYJ, DDDE

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

 

 



Application

Description or Notes

Source code language

Source code language

DB Backend

DD Sites Supported

Application

Description or Notes

current

conversion

DB Backend

DD Sites Supported

Enterprise

Truck Tracking Application/ Enterprise  Prelodge

Database for tracking Trailer to Stow off load time for commercial inbound trucks in receiving.  Prelodge application is used by DDSP transportation and security staff to schedule and track truck traffic.

Current versions of truck tracking applications running at DDOO and DDSP

 



Classic Asp

ASP.NET 

SQL 2008r

All depots

Enterprise Redball

Database for tracking classified material to be inducted, stowed and shipped with the steps in Redball system to include 

Access, Discovery, Transferring, Acceptance, Inducting, Stow, Check Out and In, Local Pick, Deliver, Pick up, Mission pick, Packed, Retire and Lost or Unusable.  Currently being used at DDOO



Classic ASP

ASP.NET 

SQL 2008r

All depots

Enterprise Individual Standard Performance (ISP)

Reports on employee performance and production.  Currently being used at DDSP and DDWG

Classic ASP

ASP.NET C#



All Depots

Enterprise  Overtime

Schedule employee overtime work w/union parameters. Sub part of ISP.  Currently being used at DDSP.

Classic ASP

ASP.NET C#



All Depots

Enterprise ECS Monitoring

ECS is a lower tier system that directs material through mechanized conveyances within warehouse operations

System will provide monitoring of key processes through web dashboard.  Currently being used at DDJC.







DLA Dist Sites

Enterprise     RFID              Last Tag Read

Quick view of pRFID reader status query as quick way depot people can know if rfid server is operating.  Currently running at DDJC

ASP.NET

ASP.NET



All Depots

Enterprise     Radio Tracking

These applications are used by DDSP warehouse staff to track the usage of high-dollar portable equipment (handheld radios and RF guns). Supervisors assign this equipment to employees and scan tracking information (CAC code and device serial number) into the database.



Classic ASP

ASP.NET



All Depots

Enterprise Performance Oriented Packaging (POP)

DLA Distribution Web App that displays POP packaging data that meets design qualification testing requirements to meet compliance.

Classic ASP

ASP.NET 

SQL 2008r

All DLA Distribution Customers												SP3300-14-R-0001  Attachment 2

Section 508, Government Product Accessibility Template for Software Development Services

Summary

Column one involves consideration of all the Sections of the Standard that might apply to any deliverable.  The total number of provisions within each Section of the Standard is shown in parentheses.  

Column two identifies the total number of provisions that typically apply to a deliverable of this type.  Some of these may not be features of the vendor’s deliverable.  Conversely, others not noted may be features of the vendor’s deliverable.  If the deliverable involves consideration of additional features, the accessibility of these features must also be considered.

Column three is for general notes about the Sections of the Standard.  Some apply to all deliverables and some are specific to the deliverable.

Column four is a summary of the vendor’s response to applicable provisions and additional deliverable features from the Sections of the Standard.

Column five is where the vendor can note explanations for any of the preceding columns, e.g. there are differences between expected applicable provisions and actual product features.





Subpart B -- Technical Standards 

Note: If there is a possibility that the provision applies, the default value is “Yes”.  



Column one is the full text of the provision from the Standard.

Column two documents the agency’s accessibility requirement based on common characteristics of the EIT deliverable.  Place a Yes or No in this column based on program need and actual characteristics of your expected deliverable (i.e., Is this provision seen as applicable to the expected deliverable?)

Column three provides explanatory information about the provision to help both the agency in determining applicability and the vendor in providing accessibility information. 

Column four is for the vendor to check off whether the deliverable meets, partially meets or does not meet the specific provision.

Column five is for the vendor to provide an explanation of how the deliverable meets or does not meet the specific provision.  It is also an opportunity to explain why a deliverable does not have an applicable feature or why it has a feature that was not identified as applicable.

Section 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems



Section 1194.22 Web-based intranet and Internet information and applications





CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Total Number of Possible Applicable Provisions

Notes

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Total Number of Supported Provisions

Please explain

CFR 1194 Standard Sections

Total Number of Possible Applicable Provisions

Notes

Fully

Partial

Not

Please explain

Section 1194.21  (12 provisions) 

12

Software Development involves consideration of software applications and operating systems.









Section 1194.22  
(16 provisions)

16

Software Development involves consideration of web-based applications and information.











Provision Text 

Applicable 

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement? 

Please explain

(a) When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a keyboard where the function itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually.

Yes

This applies to QWERTY keyboards.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(b) Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified as accessibility features, where those features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable activated features of any operating system that are identified as accessibility features where the application programming interface for those accessibility features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(c) A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input focus changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that Assistive Technology can track focus and focus changes.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(d) Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and state of the element shall be available to Assistive Technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(e) When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the meaning assigned to those images shall be consistent throughout an application's performance.

Yes

In this requirement, the term “bitmap” refers to a broad number of image formats, such as .bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .tif and .svg.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(f) Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The minimum information that shall be made available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes.

Yes





__Fully
__Partially
__No



(g) Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No



(h) When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user.

Yes

Self-scrolling and moving text are considered animation.

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(i) Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(g).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(j) When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a range of contrast levels shall be provided.

Yes

See  



This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(h).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(k) Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

Yes

Other elements include turning graphics on and off or changing between images.



This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.22(j) and 1194.25(i).

__Fully
__Partially
__No



(l) When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.22(n). 

__Fully
__Partially
__No





Provision Text 

Applicable 

Notes

How does the EIT meet this requirement? 

Please explain

(a) A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided (e.g., via “alt”, “longdesc”, or in element content).

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No


 

(f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.

Yes

This requirement does not apply to tables used strictly for layout.

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provisions 1194.21(k) and 1194.25(i).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes.

Yes





This should only be used as a last resort.

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with functional text that can be read by Assistive Technology.

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with Section1194.21(a) through (l). 

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using Assistive Technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues. 

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.21(l).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links. 

Yes



__Fully
__Partially
__No

 

(p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

Yes

This requirement is also addressed in provision 1194.25(b).

__Fully
__Partially
__No

 ATTACHMENT 3 to RFP SP3300-14-R-0001  

TABLE OF LABOR CATEGORIES









CLIN 0001 (Base Year) Prime - Web Application Support- Services Labor 







Labor Category 

Estimated Number of Hours 

Rate/Hr. Burden

Subtotal labor (Number of Hours *Burdened Base Rate)

Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer (onsite)

1920

 

 

Senior Web Application Developer 

 7680

 

 

Junior Web Application Developer 

 9600

 

 



Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 0001-Amount Column)

Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 0001-Amount Column)

$









CLIN 1001 (Option Year 1) Prime - Web Application Support- Services Labor 







Labor Category 

Estimated Number of Hours

Rate/Hr. Burden

Subtotal labor (Number of Hours *Burdened Base Rate)

Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer (onsite)

 1920

 

 

Senior Web Application Developer 

 11520

 

 

Junior Web Application Developer 

 15360

 

 



Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 1001-Amount Column)

Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 1001-Amount Column)

$











CLIN 2001 (Option Year 2) Prime - Web Application Support- Services Labor 







Labor Category 

Estimated Number of Hours 

Rate/Hr. Burden

Subtotal labor (Number of Hours *Burdened Base Rate)

Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer (onsite)

1920

 

 

Senior Web Application Developer 

 17280

 

 

Junior Web Application Developer 

26880 

 

 



Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 2001-Amount Column)

Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 2001-Amount Column)

$









CLIN 3001 (Option Year 3) Prime - Web Application Support- Services Labor 







Labor Category 

Estimated Number of Hours 

Rate/Hr. Burden

Subtotal labor (Number of Hours *Burdened Base Rate)

Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer (onsite)

1920

 

 

Senior Web Application Developer 

 7680

 

 

Junior Web Application Developer 

 13440

 

 



Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 3001-Amount Column)

Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 3001-Amount Column)

$

















CLIN 4001 (Option Year 4) Prime - Web Application Support- Services Labor 







Labor Category 

Estimated Number of Hours 

Rate/Hr. Burden

Subtotal labor (Number of Hours *Burdened Base Rate)

Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer (onsite)

1920

 

 

Senior Web Application Developer 

 3840

 

 

Junior Web Application Developer 

 7680

 

 



Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 4001-Amount Column)

Total Labor for all
Categories:
(Note: This number is
carried over to Section B
CLIN 4001-Amount Column)

$

Total Estimated Amt. CLINs 0001-4001

$

$STATEMENT OF WORK

FOR

DLA INFORMATION OPERATIONS NEW CUMBERLAND 

WEB APPLICATION SUPPORT SERVICES

 TASK ORDER 0001



DLA INFORMATION OPERATIONS AT NEW CUMBERLAND, PA

 LOCATED AT SUSQUEHANNA, PA





SCOPE:  


DLA Information Operations requires Enterprise Web Application Maintenance Support to provide Advanced Web Application Support in the maintenance and enhancement of existing web applications throughout DLA Distribution and all associated distribution locations.  The objective is to utilize on-site contractual support to augment DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland expertise to maintain and/or enhance the existing web applications, rationalize existing systems for consolidation, and troubleshoot and resolve all related programmatic problems that require DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland expertise and reach back to include technical support for all DLA Distribution locations.



Advanced Web Application Support – Contacts vendors for warranty issues for both hardware and software.  This level of support requires communication with vendors or other Government agencies to accomplish the resolution for the most complex hardware and software issues, locally and at all DLA Distribution sites.   

 

Contractor technical support is required to provide application maintenance when problems occur that affect the operations of the DLA Distribution.   All changes get processed through the Control Change Board (CCB) to be assigned, by written task, to alter the functionality, look/feel, or reporting process of the tasked program.  Application changes will include additional web interface features, streamlining management tools to decrease manual efforts, changing database definitions and structures, modernizing reporting requirements, and other products to meet changes in regulatory requirements. All web applications listed in Section 2.1 WEB Application Support Table are Government developed. 



Application Rationalization involves reviewing all existing DLA Distribution applications and making determinations to either develop into an enterprise application, consolidate with an existing application or sunset the application.   Coordination with functional site users and other application developers is essential. 



The scope of effort will also include Contractor support to generate new code and update SharePoint 2010 programming.



2. SPECIFIC TASK AREAS: 



APPLICATION MAINTENANCE


2.1.1 Application maintenance support shall be provided on all of the applications listed in the table below.  This includes application configuration, troubleshooting and problem resolution Enterprise wide.  



WEB Application support Table:






**It is estimated during the term of this task order that there will be approximately a 5% variance in the number of web applications listed in the above table. 

        





All user and user group roles must be maintained and updated as necessary to meet user requirements and ensure data security.

   .

The Contractor shall use DLA Distribution’s Distribution Standard System (DSS), data dictionary and schema functionality, which are structured in both IBM DB2 and Computer Associates (CA) Datacom database platforms. DSS is an automated information system that manages all functional business processes of DoD's warehouse operations. These processes include receiving, storage, consolidation, packing, shipping, inventory, inspection, and workload management. The system includes both commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software packages and developed application software. DSS operates in an IBM mainframe compatible environment and supports inventory management and workload control functions. It manages the performance of the mainline distribution functions: receipt, stow, pick, pack, and ship. A relational database is maintained to track the quantity and location of depot stock items. Communication is gained through a combination of interfaces, specified transactions, and file transfers.

The Contractor shall test all data and ensure 100% data integrity and error-free load checking on all products provided.  Therefore, a constant output, which tests and proves the data output is the same as data retrieved from source shall be available first thing each morning.



Address all issues related to Web-based system performance in accordance with (IAW) the Acceptable Performance Levels (APLs) identified in the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP).



 The operation documentation shall be modified prior to moving application to production to incorporate any change that may be required.



 The Continuation of Operations (COOP) Procedures shall be updated when a change is made that will affect bringing the processing-related programs online at the backup COOP location.



Provide technical support and resolution for software installation and configuration issues.  



Trouble tickets shall be input, updated and maintained using the existing Remedy Help Desk software application.



 For maintenance resolutions, the Contractor shall notify, in writing, the KO, or designee, and the DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland liaison of the application problem resolution.



Attend meetings with the KO, or COR, to discuss milestones, task status, concerns, and any issues that would impact progress.  Discussions may include major projects such as new Enterprise application requirements or existing application changes/upgrades.





2.2  PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT / CHANGE SUPPORT REQUIRMENTS



Development/Change duties apply to all web based applications in support of the DLA Distribution Enterprise.  All the development and change requirements below will be completed each time an application is created/changed or upgraded. 



2.2.1



Identify specifications based on customer requirements, to determine the level of effort required.

Requirements Analysis

  Functional Design:   Application purpose, justification, description, and data fields

  UI Design:   Interfaces, Screens, Fonts, Attributes, etc. (Cosmetics) using 508 compliance measures.

  System Design:   Hardware and Software configuration platform baseline and compatibility  identification



All development and change programming for distribution applications must be within compliance of the Section 508 (handicap-accessibility) laws and code.



Work with the customer to get the CCB Approval request composed and sent to the CCB for 
 review. 



Upon CCB approval, create Conceptual Design:  Application/Database/Information-base structure and layout, record definition and layouts, data field definition, end-user interfaces, screens, and drop-down menus, text and graphical issues (fonts, attributes, etc.), etc.  Business Rules are defined in accordance with the Customer Requirements.  The Contractor shall submit concept and design documentation outlining the database schema and structures, data flow, error-checking, data normalization, security, views, and web reports for approval to the KO, or designee, for approval.



Application Development and Coding:  Create application software coding. Document the code explaining what the block of code is doing and any other helpful information.



Development Testing:  Incremental testing during the initial coding and development phases in a non-production/testing environment.



Production Testing:  Performed after Application Development and Coding phase/step is completed.  Testing of the overall integrity of the code in relation to the complete system performance in a staging environment. 



Customer Acceptance Testing: Testing begins during the Production Testing phase/step.  During this phase/step, the customer actually tests the limitations of the products to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer/end-user ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer/end-user. 



Documentation



End-User:   Overviews and End-User Manuals (Definition and instructions on how to use the application)

Functional Administrator/Coordinator: Overviews and Manuals (may be same as or similar to end-user documentation); typically, the purpose of the application, description, data fields used, problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.

Technical/Help Desk:  Overviews and Manuals for technical support staff; e.g. DBAs (database analysts/administrators), system/server administrators, etc.; typically, the data and database structures, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc.



Training and/or Training Plan Package:  Training can be delivered in a variety of formats, using a variety of vehicles – e.g. classroom, computer-based training (CBT), video teleconference (VTC), etc., using manuals, videotape, DVD-ROM, CD-ROM, etc.  Types of training include end-user, functional administrator/coordinator, and technical/help desk



End-User: Training should be focused on the access and use of the application being developed to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training modules should be developed as follows:  (1) Application Basic Overview and User Access, (2) Screens – Access and Use (correlation between application use and job/mission requirement).  The target audience for this training/training package is application end-users, and functional administrators and coordinators.

Functional Administrator/Coordinator:   Training should be focused on the purpose and description of the application; data fields used and defined application problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc. to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training support areas: Application Overview, Purpose and Description, Record Layouts and Data Fields, Problem Identification, Troubleshooting, and Resolution, Problem Escalation and Referral, etc. The target audience for this training/training package is functional project and team leads, and/or functional administrators and coordinators.

Technical/Help Desk (DBA and System/Server Admin):	Training should be focused on the purpose and description of the application, data and database structures used and defined, record layouts, field descriptions (length, type, rules, audio/video attributes, etc.), problem identification, troubleshooting, problem resolution, problem escalation and referral, etc. to satisfy mission and job requirements.  Training modules should be developed that reflect the aforementioned support areas:

Application Overview:  Purpose and Description,

Data and Database Structures – including record layouts and field descriptions and attributes,

Problem Identification, Troubleshooting, and Resolution,

Problem Escalation and Referral, etc.

The target audiences for this training/training package are technical and help desk support personnel.



Application Deployment:  The actual rollout of the application, including distribution and installation of that application.



Final Acceptance Testing:  Not completed until application development and deployment have been completed.  Testing begins during the final stages of application development, and continues through application deployment.  During this phase/step, the customer tests the limitations of the products in a full production environment to determine whether it satisfies the requirements and specifications originally identified.  The customer/end-user has the option of ‘accepting’ or ‘refusing to accept’.  Should the customer/end-user ‘refuse to accept’ the application, application development and coding shall resume based upon refined specifications provided by the customer/end-user.  If customer/end-user formally ‘accepts’ the application (signs and dates an acceptance form/contract), on the date/time when the application was accepted, the ‘manufacturer’s’ warranty period for the application begins.  



Developer signs release forms that the Web application and all associated products are compliant with Section 508, the Mobile Code Policy, internal security requirements, and other DoD, DLA, and DLA Distribution policies.



The Contractor shall test all applications on the DLA Distribution Web Development Server after changes are complete prior to production testing on the Staging Server and finally deploying to the 64-bit production environment.  



The Contractor shall implement the necessary modifications to the server hosted databases in accordance with optimal design for data insert, update and query retrieval performance.



The Contractor shall update the Source Code documentation that includes ASP pages, DLLs (source prior to executable) stored procedures, etc. reflecting the application change.



The Contractor shall notify the appropriate team leads and respective Program Coordinator, and DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland liaison, when the application development/changes have been completed/resolved and estimated timeframe to migrate solution/resolution into the Production application.



Attend meetings with the KO, or designee, to discuss milestones, task status, concerns, and any issues that would impact progress.  Discussions may include major projects such as Enterprise PC replacements, installation, upgrades or software upgrades.



Application Rationalization is an on-going project which evaluates all the functionality of the applications to determine their future uses for DLA Distribution. 





The contractor will be tasked with analyzing approximately 60 WEB Applications and providing the Government with the analysis. 





Table of Web Applications that need Rationalization: 









2.2.3 Working with the business personnel at DLA Distribution Headquarters, DLA Information Operations New Cumberland (IONC) is tasked with determining the future of all applications listed in the above table. Below A though F are the outcomes for the above WEB Applications that are being analyzed. 



Our currents Courses of Action are:



A. Centralize application at DLA (IONC), Roll functionality into DSS or another Enterprise   Application. The application has been deemed useful for all sites and the functionality can be rolled into DSS or another Enterprise Application in an agreed upon timeframe.  Until that timeframe, the application will be centralized and maintained at DLA IONC.   New development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.  The development and maintenance will continue until the functionality is moved into DSS or another Enterprise Application.  Once in DSS or another Enterprise Application the application will be sunset.

Centralize application at DLA IONC, Expand functionality to all DLA Distribution Sites



The application has been deemed useful for all sites and expansion to all sites will be completed in an agreed upon timeframe.  The application will be centralized and maintained at DLA IONC.  New development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.  Level of effort will need to be established and vetted for the new global application between DLA Distribution DLA Logistics Operations (J3)/Customer Support (J4) personnel and J6N personnel before beginning the expansion piece of the application.

Centralize application at DLA IONC, Sunset application in X number of years.



The application has been deemed unique for the location and supports the DLA Distribution Mission.  The application will be centralized at DLA IONC.  J3/J4 has determined that the application is no longer necessary at the site and will be sunset in an agreed upon timeframe.  No new development will be done on the application.  Only troubleshooting and repair on the current functionality will be done by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.



Centralize application at DLA IONC, Functionality will remain unique to site



The application has been deemed unique for the location and supports the DLA Distribution Mission.  The application will be centralized at DLA IONC and all new development requirements will be handled by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.  J6NIS will assume responsibility for troubleshooting and maintenance with the assistance of the site personnel.

No centralization, Sunset application in X number of years



The application has been deemed unique for the location and centralization of the application is not possible to due latency or response issues.  The application also may not support the DLA Distribution Mission Support and does not need to be centrally located.  J3/J4 has determined that the application is no longer necessary at the site and will be sunset in an agreed upon timeframe.  No new development will be done on the application.  Only troubleshooting and repair on the current functionality will be done by the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.

No centralization, Functionality will remain unique to site



The application has been deemed unique for the location and centralization of the application is not possible to due latency or response issues.  The application also may not support the DLA Distribution Mission Support and does not need to be centrally located.  For example, the site has developed an application for use by the site Fire Department.  The continued development of the application will now reside with the J6NIS developers in New Cumberland.





The Contractor will carry out the following Application rationalization analysis in the following order: 



A. Identify all apps, owners, number of users, and availability

B. Analyze the code, security, functionality, and status

C.  Determine if the app has an alternative or should be made Enterprise

D. Calculate sustainment, update/migrate, and rewrite costs

E. Create decision making criteria

F. Weekly meetings and briefs

G. Create supporting documents and update week







Level of Effort and Labor Categories



















GENERAL OPERATION CONDITIONS 



A. This Section provides general information relating to the conditions of operation and general requirements relating to the Web Application support services performed by DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA located at Susquehanna, PA.



 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE 



Work will be accomplished primarily at DLA Distribution Susquehanna, PA 17070 

DLA Distribution Susquehanna, New Cumberland, PA. 



Contractor employees may be required to travel to any site CONUS and OCONUS supported by DLA Distribution as deemed necessary. 



Travel costs will be paid for in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations. Receipts for all travel expenses must be provided when the travel voucher is submitted.



Offsite electronic work may be authorized by the COR. The frequency of the offsite work shall be determined after performance has commenced.





PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE 

The period of performance of this Task Order shall commence on or around 25 September 2014 and be completed within 365 calendar days, or as modified.  The phase-in period will commence on or around 25  September 2014 and will not exceed 30 calendar days.  The period of full performance of the requirements will commence on or around 25 October 2014 and be completed on or around 24 September 2015.  



7. CURRENT DUTY HOURS AND ACCESS TO THE HOST INSTALLATION 



A.   Work will primarily be accomplished at the DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland location Monday through Friday from the hours of 0600-1700 hours.   

B.    On-call after hours work shall be required as deemed necessary by the COR.   Support shall be provided via telephone, on-site, or remotely using Government furnished equipment (GFE), as deemed necessary.

C. At a minimum from 0600-1700 hours Monday through Friday the contractor must have 50% of the FTE's onsite providing support. 





TRAVEL 

Contractor personnel may be required to travel within the continental United States (CONUS) and outside the continental United States (OCONUS) in support of this contract.  All travel by Contractor employees shall be authorized by the KO or COR prior to the travel being performed.  When travel has been authorized, the Project Manager shall approve and forward travel requests to the COR for Government validation within a minimum of ten (10) working days prior to the travel commencement date.  Travel requests shall be in writing and contain the dates, locations, and estimated travel costs.  The Contractor shall ensure that all travel is IAW the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).  Reimbursements for transportation costs will be limited to allowable expenses for Government directed travel.  The Contractor shall be responsible for any costs incurred as a result of authorized travel which were in excess of that allowed under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 31.205-46 Travel Costs and the appropriate regulations therein



PHASE-IN



In order to allow for a smooth and orderly transfer of responsibility for project management, 

data collection and analytical projects and duties from the incumbent Contractor to the new  Contractor, the Contractor shall participate in a period of phase-in during which the incumbent Contractor shall continue to perform the services.  This period will commence                        upon execution of the task order and will continue for a period not to exceed (1) one month,    

      at which time the Contractor shall commence full performance.  



      Within five (5) calendar days from the date of task order award, the Contractor shall 

      complete the hiring action for the Program Manager.  Within 15 calendar days of the date of 

      task order award, the Contractor shall complete all hiring actions for personnel required to 

      perform the requirements of the task order and complete any associated training 

      requirements.  The Contractor shall ensure that all new employees are trained and ready to 

      begin working on the first day of full performance.



      The Government will provide orientation for all Contracted personnel within the first 30 days 

      of the phase-in period.  The orientation will cover topics such as familiarization with 

      operations, facilities location, assigned parking, familiarization with DLA Distribution, and 

      issuance of building passes.



      During the phase-in period, the Contractor shall provide a weekly written report to the KO or

      COR on the status of the tasks required to be completed during this period.  Five (5) working 

      days prior to the conclusion of the phase-in period, the Contractor shall provide the KO or

      COR with a detailed final phase-in report outlining all tasks accomplished.



          	Below are the projected hours for phase-in by labor category.







SECURITY 

Security Clearance:

The Contractor shall comply with all applicable DoD security regulations and procedures during the performance of this task order IAW 2.6  Security,  2.6 Physical Security, 2.6 A. Personnel Clearance, and 2.6.2 Information System Security.  The Contractor shall be required to provide a minimum of IT II eligibility for all personnel requiring access to Government computers and workstations.  The Task Order duration is expected to last no longer than twelve (12) months.  





GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP), SYSTEMS, TRAINING AND SUPPORT SERVICES 

The Government will provide access to resources and information to include Government transactional data systems required in the performance of this PWS.

The Government will furnish training for Contractor personnel on the Government data systems to be used in performance of this PWS.  

The Government will provide on-site office space with furniture, to include desktop computer and network printer, office supplies and desk telephone.  This office space will be located at DLA Distribution Susquehanna, PA.  

At no cost to the Contractor, the Government will furnish the services to be used exclusively to perform the requirements of this contract that include custodial services, refuse and recycling collection, government forms, emergency medical services, police and fire protection, telephone and utilities.

All materials, equipment or supplies (i.e. lift equipment, tools and parts) that contractor personnel will need to perform this requirement at DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland, PA located at DLA Distribution Susquehanna; PA will be furnished by the Government.  

The Government will provide all hardware necessary for the Web Application upgrade.



CONTRACTOR-FURNISHED EQUIPMENT,  MATERIALS, SERVICES, TRAINING

A.  Title to contractor-furnished equipment shall remain with the contractor.  Contractor

      furnished equipment shall meet the same safety requirements as those established for 

      government equipment.



B. The Contractor shall furnish supplies not provided by the Government.



C.  The Contractor shall provide the training identified below and any other training 

      that is not identified as Government-Furnished but which may be required for Contractor 

      personnel to comply with the contract requirements. The Contractor shall maintain copies of

      training records for the duration of the contract, designation letters and certificates on site 

      and make them available for the KO or COR to review upon request. 



COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (CTIP).  



INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IA).  



SECURITY TRAINING.  The Government will provide the materials necessary for employee training in the following areas:

Counterintelligence.  IAW DoDI 5240.6, Counterintelligence (CI) Awareness and Briefing Program (Training time is 30 minutes or less).

Operational Security (OPSEC).  IAW DoDD 5205.2, DoD Operations Security Program (Training time is 60 minutes or less)

Antiterrorism Training.  IAW DoDD 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Program as directed by the KO or COR (Training time is 60 minutes).





INFORMATION ASSURANCE: Contractor personnel performing tasks associated with this PWS that will be performing an IA function shall be trained and certified in accordance with DoD Directive 8570.1 and DoD 8570.1M.  IA functions are defined in chapters 3 and 4 of the DoD 8570.1M.  Contractor personnel shall be certified at the appropriate IAT II Level in accordance with their designated function (labor category) as demonstrated by possessing one (1) of the authorized certifications listed in Table 2.4.1, IAT Certification Requirements. The Contractor shall identify personnel performing IA functions identified in the PWS prior to that employee commencing any work under this PWS and provide documentation to the KO or COR showing the employee’s certification(s) and certification status.  The Contractor shall demonstrate that they have a process to track certification status of employees to ensure certifications are current or to replace departing employees with employees possessing current certifications in a manner that will not cause program interruption.  Contractor personnel shall be required to sign the User Access Agreement, Privileged Rules of Behavior, and General Rules of Behavior and non Discloser agreement prior to working on any government system(s).



EQUIPMENT OPERATION.  This training is required for all Contractor employees who operate motor vehicles, MHE, other equipment with the required licensing, certification, or specialized training.  Training includes but is not limited to the requirements identified in CFR Title 29, Part 1910.178; CFR Title 49; American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B30.13-1996, Storage/Retrieval (S/R) Machines and Associated Equipment; and DLAI 4500.36, Management, Acquisition, and Use of DLA Operating Equipment, Sections E3m and E3n; and Federal, State and Local Laws.  Refresher training is required at a minimum of every three years or when warranted in accordance with OSHA, DoD, and manufacturer’s guidance.



The Contractor shall provide safety equipment while performing hazardous duties in both the office and warehouse environments.  The required safety equipment may include, but is not limited to, safety shoes, glasses, harness, and lanyard.  



NON-PERSONAL SERVICES STATEMENT 



Contractor employees performing services under this order will be controlled, directed, and supervised at all times by management personnel of the contractor.  Contractor management will ensure that employees properly comply with the performance work standards outlined in the SOW.  Contractor employees will perform their duties independent of, and without the supervision of any Government official or other Defense Contractor.  The tasks, duties, and responsibilities set forth in the task order may not be interpreted or implemented in any manner that results in any Contractor employee creating or modifying Federal policy, obligating the appropriated funds of the US Government, overseeing the work of Federal employees, providing direct personal services to any Federal employee, or otherwise violating the prohibitions set forth in parts 7.5 and 37.1 of the FAR.  The Government will control access to the facility and will perform the inspection and acceptance of the completed work.



GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT OVERSITE  



Government management will provide general instructions on limitations and deadlines.  Additional instructions will be provided for any unusual assignments or those that vary from established procedures.  The Contractor’s employees will independently carry out the assignments.  Completed work will be spot checked by Government management for adherence to procedures, accuracy, and completeness.



15. CONTRACTOR IDENTIFICATION AND COMMUNICATION

A.  During performance of the service requirements set forth in this PWS, all Contractor personnel shall introduce themselves or shall ensure they are introduced as Contractor employees and shall display distinguishing badges.  Contractor personnel shall also appropriately identify themselves as contractor employees in telephone conversations and in formal and informal written correspondence.

16. PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY 

The Contractor shall maintain care of all Government-furnished property.  At all times during the performance of the contract requirements, title to the mission stock and all other government-furnished property shall remain vested with the Government.  In exercising care and custody, the Contractor shall safeguard all Government-furnished property.



The Contractor shall provide the proper protection for material under their custody and control.  If there is a loss the Contractor shall immediately notify the KO or COR. 

17.  LIABILITY FOR GOVERNMENT PROPERTY 

The Contractor shall be held financially liable for loss, damage, or destruction of government property caused by negligence, willful misconduct or unauthorized use.  The KO or COR will make the pecuniary liability determination when a Contractor’s negligence results in loss, damage, or destruction of Government property.



The Contractor shall:

Notify the KO or COR immediately when it discovers the gain, loss, damage or destruction of government equipment or property.  

Conduct an initial search and/or informal investigation into the loss or damage of equipment or property and forward all research data to the KO or COR.

Cooperate in any subsequent investigations.



18. CONTRACTOR MANPOWER REPORTING



The Contractor shall report all contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this contract for the Defense Logistics Agency via a secure data collection site. The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the following web address: http://www.ecmra.mil/. Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30. While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2014. Contractors may direct questions to the help desk at help desk at: http://www.ecmra.mil.



19.  DELIVERABLES



Upon contract award, DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland IT Ops representative(s) will consult with Contractor representatives to provide an overview of current and proposed web application program configurations.



The Contractor shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Liability Insurance to the KO, or designee.



The Contractor shall provide a Quality Control Plan (QCP) to the KO, or designee, within 10 days after contract award.  The document shall be updated at least quarterly to reflect any changes in goals, strategies, and circumstances.  



The Contractor shall provide weekly status updates to the KO, or designee, to include any issues that would impact completion date of any assigned support tasks.  



The Contractor shall, upon request, attend and participate in meetings with KO, or designee, or alternates to discuss required tasks, concerns, and any issues.



Documentation of changes made to resolve any operating problems. Documentation of change made must include:



All source code, including ASP pages, DLLS, Stored Procedures, etc. in all completed/changed application modifications. 



All permissions and configurations of each file and/or virtual directory.



All forms with customer approvals, signature verification that applicable policies; i.e. Section 508, Mobile Code, etc. and other requirements were followed and implemented.  



 Complete ‘application restore’ procedures for COOP/Disaster Recovery, ensuring complete recovery of the application, by system administrators (non-developers).



The Contractor shall provide complete Training Packages on changed applications, which include the following materials:  



End-User Manual – use of the application.   



Functional Administrator/Coordinator Manual – Maintenance, Upkeep, and Restoration of the application. 



Technical Manual with in-depth technical design.  The manual shall show the technical coordinator the necessary steps and files needed to successfully build the application from scratch to support a Disaster recovery/COOP requirement.  Also, the technical manual must include the workflow, layout, data dictionary, source code, and other technical information of the application.



The completed Web Application Maintenance Sheet.



Written recommendations included in the weekly status update for corrective Web application solutions that are less cumbersome and that are more cost effective to the end user and/or program managers.


The Contractor shall provide weekly status on the Application Rationalization Project, to include meetings held and progress made, reporting back to the Application Rationalization team.




	END OF STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)









Application

Description or Notes

Source code language

Source code language

DB Backend

Est. User Count

DD Sites Supported

Application

Description or Notes

current

conversion

DB Backend

Est. User Count

DD Sites Supported

POP

Oriented Packaging is a DLA Distribution Web App that displays POP packaging data that meets design qualification testing requirements. POP needs a code rewrite to meet STIG. (80% done)





Classic ASP with COM+ dlls

ASP.Net 3.5

VB.Net

C#

MSSQL 2008R2

250

DOD

WebMIS

MIS (Management Information System) uses the data from the Distribution Standard System (DSS) to develop performance, workload and billing statistics.   Statistics are displayed on line in accordance with the requested level of detail through predetermined screen designs. WebMIS needs a code change to give the user the ability to add a depot to prevent an admin user from taking out the database.



ASP.Net /VB.net

MS Excel



MSSQL 2008R2

350

DLA Distribution

PAWS

Contracting tool for J7 to modify and update contracting information. E-procurement replaced but is still being used because there is a lack of functionality in e-procurement.

.Net 2.0 VB.net



MSSQL 2008R2

80

J7

DLAUserIDGen

Used to create and manage new userIDs for the Access Management team. Not working right and currently on stand-by.



.Net 4.0 C#



MSSQL 2008R2

10

J6N

ISP

Employee DB

Audits

Emp Performance

Employee work analysis tool. Includes Employee work related information to include photo.  Initially pulled from Lenel, is currently being updated from Classic ASP to .Net 4.0 with functionality to update photos and additional information not currently supplied in class ASP app.  Also include Audit update/analysis

Classic ASP

ASP.Net 4.0 C#



MSSQL 2008r2

D2B

Mgrs

DDSP

DDWG

MPC

Web Materials Processing Center – used by all depots – local collection point

ASP.Net/

VB.Net





200

DLA Distribution

Outloading

Container booking and scheduling.  Users periodically request interface changes

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

20

DDSP

Overtime

Schedule employee overtime work w/union parameters. Sub part of ISP.  Currently being used at DDSP.

Relies heavily on timely Employee DB (ISP Application) updates

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

80

DDSP

PDO Processing

Warehouse staff track materiel returned for PDO

Classic ASP





10

DDSP

Prelodge

Used by DDSP transportation and security staff to schedule and track truck traffic.

Users have a long standing request for a public interface to this system that is supposedly being addressed by changes to the DSS system, but as of Feb2013 have no update on the status of this.

Classic ASP

ASP.Net 4.0

C#

MS SQL 2008R2

25

DDSP

QBO/QBD

Used by depots for querying the owner/location of NIINs (Navy Sites)

ASP.net/ VB.net





100

All DLA Dist.

QBO/QBD (Navy)

Used by Navy for querying the owner/location of NINs

ASP.net/ VB.net







Navy

Training Calendar

Schedule training and rooms at DDSP

Classic ASP





100

DDSP

Automated Training System (ATS)

This is used for training that hasn’t been offered thru LMS

Classic ASP





2200

DDSP

Internal Package Delivery Tracking (IntraTrac)

This system provides a means of entering, distributing, and reporting on packages delivered to internal depot addresses.



Classic ASP





300

DDSP

CAC Appointment Calendar

Calendar for scheduling CAC replacements with Pass & ID

Classic ASP



MS Access

All DDSP 

DDSP

Parts Room

3rd Party Application that tracks parts used in inventory

VB6



MS Access

7

DDSP

DDSP IT Inventory

Application that tracks IT inventory and location on depot

Classic ASP





20

DDSP

MRO Cycle Tracking

Provides MRO data by distribution depot

Classic ASP





1000

DLA Distribution

Next Scheduled Departure (NSD)

Schedules dedicated truck shipments by customer delivery date/schedule

ASP .net/ VB .net



MQ Replication to DB2

25

DDSP

DDJC

DDYJ

DDDE

Work Counts

DSS Web App which keeps track of how many CCP Receipts 

Classic ASP



MQ Replication to  DB2

350

DLA Distribution

Device Tracking

Tracks ScanGun assignments.  May require future updates 

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2



DDSP

Radio Tracking

Used to assign radios for inventory tracking. May require future updates 

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

35

DDSP

Awards Store

Online catalog store app for management to provide awards for employees

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

50

DDSP

DOTS **

Dispatch Order Tracking System

Classic ASP    





MS SQL 2008R2

800+

DDOO

FITS **

Facility Inventory Tracking System -- Tracking HelpDesk and Shop Stock Information

Classic ASP 





MS SQL 2008R2

39

DDOO

FITS-GPC **

Facility Inventory Tracking System – General Purchasing System for tracking credit card purchases

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

492

DDOO

TrukTrak **

Tracking trailer to stow off load time or commercial inbound trucks in receiving.

Classic ASP 

 



MS SQL 2008R2

79

DDOO

DOTS -RedBall **

Stickers sub-app is part of the Dispatch Order Tracking System

Classic ASP  





MS SQL 2008R2

55

DDOO

DOTS – Customer Service **

Customer Complaints tracker

Classic ASP



MS SQL 2008R2

24

DDOO

Data Center Access **

Tracks request for access to the DataCenter or other security areas as needed.

ASP.Net/C#





25

J6N

GreenBelt **

Used for tracking GreenBelt mentoring. (Six Sigma)

ASP .Net



MS SQL 2008R2

50

DDSP



Acronym

Full Name

Description

No of Users

Used by

Format

2010 Soft Suite

PII

Risk

SharePoint Sites Allowed

DOTS                                                    

Dispatch Order Tracking System  CR797 3-22

Database for tracking local delivers from request to delivery.

800+

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

DOTS-REDBALL        

REDBALL Security Tracking and Accountability System  CR798 3-22

Database for tracking classified material to be inducted, stowed and shipped with the steps in Redball system to include Access, Discovery, Transferring, Acceptance, Inducting, Stow, Check Out and In, Local Pick, Deliver, Pick up, Mission pick, Packed, Retire and Lost or Unusable.

55

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

DOTS-CUSTOMER SERVICE        

Dispatch Order Tracking System - Customer Service CR797 3-22

Database for tracking customer complaints in Inventory.

24

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

TRUKTRAK                                        

TruckTrak CR796 3-22

Database for tracking Trailer to Stow off load time for commercial inbound trucks in receiving. 

79

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

FITS-GPC                                           

Facility Inventory Tracking System - General Purchasing System CR799 3-22

Database for tracking credit card purchases for the Depot.  

492

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

FITS                                                       

Facility Inventory Tracking System CR799 3-22

Database for tracking facility work orders.  At one time also tracked IT work orders. Currently only used by facilities for maintenance work orders.  

39

DDOO

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

COOPSQL/ COOP

COOPSQL/ COOP

The primary front end is a web interface found on our home page called COOP.  There is also a second front end consisting of an It is used for providing DODAAC address information, and stock location/catalog data for both Sharpe and Tracy sites in the event DSS is not available.  Web front end to Microsoft office.  One is SQL server which is not Microsoft Office.  

20

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

ESOC

Emergency Supply Operations Center

Used to check status of emergency requisitions in the ESOC data base and DSS.  Users do not access ESOC database through the web.  There are about 40 to 50 users.  Users are primarily Customer Support Office in Transportation.  The Shipment Planning group has read access.  

~

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Box Shop Request

Tracks work requests from Divisions input via Intranet.  Box office - thru Microsoft office? 

~

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

CCP Research

San Joaquin Research Material list <Consolidation Container point realize bundling of customer material- production home 

~1000

DDJC

Not in use

 

 

 

 

 

Commander's Hotline

Employee's hot line to Commander instead of fax to secretary 

~1000

DDJC

 

 

 

 

 

 

Device Tracking

Logs high value portable devices in and out Scan guns, no issues (DDSP) written 10 yrs ago at DDSP and works for DDJC… 

250

DDJC

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic Asp)

 

 

Facilities Maintenance Customer Comment

  Online comment reporting for customers                                         

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Facilities Maintenance Request

Online request for facilities work Support Tab                                   

200

DDJC

.net

 

 

 

 

 

GSA Query

Web front end to Microsoft access  Production Tab Used to query imported data from GSA to research shipments in CCP Freight terminal

50

DDJC

.net

 

 

 

X

 

Mishap Notification

Employee mishap reporting  for injury/illness,  motor vehicle or property damage sends email msg “heads up 

250

DDJC

.NET

Outlook

X

 

 

 

NANA Vehicle Maintenance Request

NANA Vehicle Maintenance Request Submission Form Contractor who manages physical facilities at depot web pg sends email  

50

DDJC

.net

Outlook

 

 

X

 

Open Lines Reports

OPEN WORKLOAD SUMMARY web front end to Microsoft access 

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Open Re-Warehousing Actions

DSS improvement visibility of different DSS conditions that first line mgrs use in warehouse 

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

Phone Book

Online phonebook inquiry for DLA Distribution San Joaquin web front end access db  

1000

DDJC

.net

Outlook

X

Users agree to risk of PII

X

 

Ride Sharing Bulletin Board

It was created for one of the Depot Support Group offices that wanted an online carpool information. Web application sql server backend web front end Employee Services Transportation

300

DDJC

.NET

 

X

 

X

 

Single Loc TPIC V Counts

DSS information web query to oracle datamart as backend. DSS Query of MTR, MRC, RCI tables,  SFTP Oracle multiple times a day. DDJC. Reside in DDJC.         

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

Suggestion Program

DDJC employees submit process improvement suggestions.  Web front end to SQL server backend 

1000

DDJC

.Net

Outlook

 

 

X

 

Unscheduled Downtime

Created for the Depot Operations Group, the app is a web form that supervisors fill out and submit whenever anything affects their productivity such as loss of DSS connectivity.  The data is stored in a SQL Server database for later analysis and is immediately forwarded via email to a distribution list of depot managers and technical personnel.  This provides a "heads up" notification of problems.  Web front end 

250

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

VPP Ergo Request Form

The Ergo request form is an easy method for DLA San Joaquin personnel to formally request an ergonomic workstation or task evaluation (POC services) and for us to document requests for POC services.  Web front end Support Safety Tab

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

X

 

Vehicle Maintenance Queries

 Query used to search vehicle maintenance logs, vehicle meter readings, and excess equipment list.  Web front end  to Microsoft access db Support Tab

50

DDJC

.Net

 

 

 

X

 

Visitor Notifications

Visitor Notifications for Visitors, Contractors, Incoming Carriers Web front end  to Microsoft access db Support Tab

50

DDJC

.Net

 

 

 

X

 

Workload Reports

DSS information on workloads Web front end  to summary data downloaded DSS each day, Production Tab

50

DDJC

.NET

 

 

 

 

 

DSS Pick Data

Consists of records downloaded from DSS table AHD (AD-HOC-DISP-REC). There are two links to this database from our webpage:  Ad Hoc Delinquent Report and Ad Hoc Discrepancy Report. Web front end  oracle db Production Tab. DSS Query of PPR,MMR, and MAR tables. SFTP Oracle multiple times a day.  DDJC. 

1000

DDJC

.NET

 

 

Security (FTP)

 

Awards Store

Awards Store (DDSP)

Online catalog store app for management to provide awards for employees/recently changed /people use maybe not 50?                         

50

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 X

ATS

Automated Training System

This application is used by DDSP staff to provide and manage training material. The system also automatically tracks training requirements by employee and supervisor.

~2200

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Data Center Access

DataCenter Access

Tracks request for access to the Data Center or other security areas as needed.  As of June 2011, J6N Data Center is only location being tracked.

25

J6N/Dist HQ/DDSP

ASP.NET/C Sharp

 

X

 

X

ISP

Individual Standards Performance

This application is used by DDSP warehouse staff to track production and employee productivity.(CR00549 ITCR Review Mar CTO) Used Daily

Mgrs

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Inventory

Inventory

DDSP IT Hardware tracking/in use not sure who

20

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Out loading

Out loading

This application is used by DDSP transportation and warehouse staff to schedule the loading, pickup, and departure point of outbound containers. /in use not sure who

20

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Overtime

Overtime-subportion ISP

This application is used by DDSP staff to schedule employee overtime work. As required by union contract, overtime must be offered by a combination of location, seniority, and previous overtime hours worked. This application uses these factors to provide the supervisor with a list of appropriate employees eligible for overtime work.

80

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Parts Room

Parts Room

This application is used by DDSP maintenance staff to manage parts inventory. This application runs as a service and sends daily email reports of parts used.  Standalone.  Box keeps track parts inventory.

7

DDSP

 

 

 

 

 

PDO Processing

PDO Processing

This application is used by DDSP warehouse staff to track materiel returned for PDO.

10

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Prelodge

Prelodge

This application is used by DDSP transportation and security staff to schedule and track truck traffic.  Webtrack sched trucks.

25

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

X

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

PAWS

Procurement Action Workload System

This application is used by J7 to facilitate the awarding and modifying of contracts. Used daily.

80

DLA Dist

ASP.NET/Visual Basic

 

X

 

 

(CR00333)QMSIT

Quality Management Scheduling & Inspection Tool

Pro, DDSP, Training, Distribution-QC (QMT recently went through ITCR  process and was approved) Approved.  The ITCR was updated. - Dec

~

DDSP

 

 

X

 

 

Radio Tracking

Radio Tracking

These applications are used by DDSP warehouse staff to track the usage of high-dollar portable equipment (handheld radios and RF guns). Supervisors assign this equipment to employees and scan tracking information (CAC code and device serial number) into the database.

35

DDSP

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Remedy

Remedy

Online (mid-tier) version of Remedy 

500

J6N

 

 

X

 

 

TCN Tracker

Transportation Control Number (TCN) Tracker

This application is used by DDSP transportation staff to track packages by (TCN) and to correct billing issues. For instance, in December of 2009 this application saved over $80,000 by finding shipments billed but not delivered correctly (late, no signature, etc.) 

 

 

Classic ASP

 

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

Training Calendar

Training Calendar

This application is used by DDSP training staff to manage training room availability.

100

DDSP

Classic ASP

Use Outlook or SharePoint

 

Security Risk (Classic ASP)

 

MRO Cycle Tracker

MRO Cycle Tracker

Web-based MRO tracker provides data by distribution depot used. The Distribution Standard System (DSS) MRO Tracking System allows the user to enter a requisition number and obtain the current status of previously processed requisitions 
Web-based MRO tracker provides data by distribution depot. 

~1000

ALL DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic ASP)

 

WebMIS

Web Management Information System

MIS (Management Information System) uses the data from the Distribution Standard System (DSS) to develop performance, workload and billing statistics.   Statistics are displayed on line in accordance with the requested level of detail through predetermined screen designs. used

350

All DLA Dist

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

Security (FIPS cannot be applied) Conflicts with Apose.Excel

 

Workcounts

Workcounts

A DSS Web App to keep track of how many CCP Receipt,  , Mission Receipt, Stow Putaway, Pick includes mission/re-warehouse and Pack. ALL DLA DistJ6N Supported WebApp of replicated DSS data performance counts; MQ Replication to DB2 LUW.Classis ASP;  DB2 DB 

350

All DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic ASP)

 

Web MPC

Web Material Processing Center

Web enabled MPC providing local collection point for ships / functions at a Navy installation without warehousing.  Run by both DLA and Navy depending on site  used

~200

NAVY sites

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

 

 

POP

Performance Oriented Packaging

DLA Distribution Web App that displays POP packaging data that meets design qualification testing requirements. used

~

All DLA Dist

Classic ASP

 

 

Security (Classic Asp)

 

QBD/QBO

Owner Asset Records (QBD-QBO)

This application is used by the depots for querying the owner/location of NIINsused  NAVY SITES QBO/QBD is a WebApp of Replicated DSS Owner/Location tables supported via MQ Rep on DB2 LUW   

~

All DLA Dist

ASP.Net VB

 

 

 

 

NSD

Next Scheduled Departure (NSD)

Schedules dedicated truck shipments by customer delivery date/schedule dataused  DSS WebApp  with replicated DSS data via MQ Replication to DB2 LUW.

25

DDSP, DDJC, DDYJ, DDDE

ASP.NET / Visual Basic

 

 

 

 



Labor Category

Projected Hours

Senior Web Application Developer/ Project Manager

1920 

Senior Web Application Developer

1920

Junior Web Application Developer

3840



Labor Category

Projected Phase-In Hours

Senior Web Application Developer/ Project Manager

160

Senior Web Application Developer

160

Junior Web Application Developer

320
                                                       Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
                                                                       for
                                                       Web Application Support Services at
                                                  DLA Information Operations, New Cumberland, PA

                                                                 TASK ORDER 0001

1.0. Purpose

1.0.1. This Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) is a government developed document used to evaluate Contractor actions while implementing
the Statement of Work (SOW) included in this contract.  The QASP is designed to provide an effective surveillance method for monitoring and
evaluating the Contractor’s performance for each of the performance objectives, to ensure that the Contractor performs in accordance with the
performance metrics set forth herein, and to ensure that the Government receives the acceptable performance levels of services.

1.0.2. The Contracting Officer (KO), or designee, performs surveillance activities under direction of the DLA Information Operations at New
Cumberland Director. The QASP will also afford the KO, or designee, a productive mechanism to preclude major deficiencies in Contractor
performance, provide input for the annual Contractor performance evaluations, and make sure the Government only pays for acceptable level of
services received.  The Contractor, and not the Government, is responsible for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the
contract.  The role of the Government is to carry out quality assurance surveillance actions to ensure contract standards are achieved.  This
Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) may be revised periodically as determined by the KO, or designee. The Contractor shall be provided a
30-day notice of the revision.

2.0. Performance objectives for the Contractor


2.0.1. The Contractor shall perform Web Application support services with oversight and approval of the KO, or designee.  These services include
all functions associated with generally accepted Web Application maintenance and development functions, services, and information and equipment
accountability requirements. Specific tasks are detailed in the SOW.

2.0.2. Contractor shall ensure that adequate staffing levels are provided to meet the Acceptable Performance Levels (APL’s) detailed in this
QASP.  Contractor will be evaluated monthly to ensure performance meets or exceeds the APL’s listed below. Penalty deductions may be used to
reduce the monthly fixed price invoice when APL’s are not met.

3.0. Metrics / penalties

3.0.1. Performance levels will be monitored and measured monthly, and compared against the APL’s by the KO, or designee.  If a performance
objective APL is not met during a calendar month, the following month’s invoice will be reduced by the penalty listed in the APL.  While it may
be possible for penalty percentages to add to more than 10%, the maximum discount will be 10%.

3.0.2. Actual use and application of monetary penalties in any given month may be waived by the KO, or designee, if the KO, or designee, and
Vendor PM agree that such penalties are not necessary or are not appropriate based on the circumstances associated with creating the penalty.

Acceptable Performance Levels:

4.0. WEB APPLICATION SUPPORT

4.1.0. Performance Objective: Timely completion of assigned projects and tasks.


   4.1.1. Measure 1: Assigned projects and tasks are completed accurately and within the time frame allotted.


      4.1.1.1. Surveillance:  The KO, or designee, will perform periodic inspections to determine whether assigned projects and tasks are
      completed within specified time limits.


      4.1.1.2. Acceptable performance level: At least 90% of assigned projects / tasks are completed and returned to the KO, or designee, by the
      defined or stated completion date, as specified by the KO, or designee.  Contractor personnel shall notify the KO, or designee, of any
      anticipated delays, and will notify the KO, or designee, of task completion within 24 hours.


      4.1.1.3. Penalty: 2%

   4.1.2. Measure 2: Documentation / Reports are submitted timely and with minimal errors.


      4.1.2.1. Surveillance:  The KO, or designee, will perform periodic inspections to determine whether documentation / reports are submitted
      within specified time limits and whether quality of documentation / reports is acceptable.


      4.1.2.2. Acceptable performance level: At least 98% of Documentation / Reports are to be submitted within five (5) working days of
      completion of the respective project / task.  A weekly report shall be provided which provides a summary of work completed and any issues
      that could not be resolved or suspense that was not met and an explanation for the delay.  All documentation shall be accurate and
      complete.


      4.1.2.3. Penalty: 1%

4.2.0. Performance Objective:  Timely closeout of Remedy tickets.


   4.2.1. Measure 1:  All trouble calls (tier 3) shall be tracked through issue resolution and closeout using Remedy.


      4.4.1.1. Surveillance:  Daily reports will be run from the Remedy application to verify proper ticket closeout procedures are followed.


      4.2.1.2. Acceptable performance level: 98% of Remedy tickets shall be closed within 1 hour of issue resolution.


      4.2.1.3. Penalty: 2%


5.0.0. The table below summarizes the performance factors, APL’s, and penalties.



|Surveillance Activity Checklist- summary table                                                                                                              |
|Category      |Performance metric /         |Goal              |Acceptable Performance level (APL)   |Surveillance method(s) used to |Monthly penalty /      |
|              |Evaluation Factor            |                  |                                     |determine performance level    |deduction if APL is not|
|              |                             |                  |                                     |                               |met                    |
|Web           |Timely completion of assigned|All Projects /    |At least 90% of assigned projects /  |Periodic inspections           |2%                     |
|Application   |projects and tasks.          |tasks completed   |tasks are completed by due date.     |                               |                       |
|Support       |                             |within designated |                                     |                               |                       |
|              |                             |time frame        |                                     |                               |                       |
|              |Required documentation /     |Submitted on time |98% of documentation / reports are   |Periodic inspections           |1%                     |
|              |reports                      |                  |submitted to the COTR within 5 days  |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |of project / task completion         |                               |                       |
|              |Closing Remedy tickets       |Close all         |98% of Remedy tickets shall be closed|Daily reports from Remedy      |2%                     |
|              |                             |completed tickets |within 1 hour of issue resolution    |system                         |                       |
|              |                             |                  |                                     |                               |                       |
|              |                             |                  |                                     |                               |                       |

6.0.0. Documentation

6.0.1. The KO, or designee, will maintain a complete Quality Assurance file.  The file will contain copies of all reports, evaluations,
recommendations, and any actions related to the Government’s performance of the quality assurance function, including the originals of all
Surveillance Activity Checklists.  All such records will be retained for the life of this contract.



Present/Past Performance Questionnaire



ATTACHMENT 7 to REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) SP3300-14-R-0001



PART I – BACKGROUND

The RFP has been issued to solicit offers that would provide the best value to the Government for the requirements of the procurement.  The specific RFP requirements may be referenced at .  The place of performance for contract start-up is New Cumberland PA, the customer for the contract is DLA Information Operations, and the contract will be for WEB Application Support/Development services.  A company that is interested in providing an offer on the RFP has requested that you complete this present/past performance questionnaire and submit it to the following:



DLA DISTRIBUTION 

ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER

ACQUISTION OPERATIONS

5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404

NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059

			



PART II – QUESTIONNAIRE INSTRUCTIONS

This questionnaire covers the topics that are in line with the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).  This questionnaire is designed to provide basic information regarding the Contractor’s present/past performance results on the contracts they have been awarded with your company and your satisfaction with their performance.  



RATERS PLEASE NOTE:  Per DOD policy, a fundamental principle of assigning ratings is that contractors will not be assessed a lower than Satisfactory rating solely for not performing beyond the requirement of the contract.   



Please use the following guide in preparing your response to the below questions:  



Exceptional

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds many to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.

Note:  To justify an Exceptional rating, identify multiple significant events and state how they were of benefit to the Government.  A singular benefit, however, could be of such magnitude that it alone constitutes an Exceptional rating.  Also there should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.



Very Good

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements and exceeds some to the Government’s benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor was effective. 

Note:  To justify a Very Good rating, identify a significant event and state how it was a benefit to the Government.  There should have been no significant weaknesses identified.



Satisfactory

Definition:  Performance meets contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed contains some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear to be or were satisfactory.  

Note:  To justify a Satisfactory rating, there should have been only minor problems, or major problems the contractor recovered from without impact to the contract.  There should have been NO significant weaknesses identified.  



Marginal

Definition:  Performance does not meet some contractual requirements.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified corrective actions.  The contractor’s proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented.

Note:  To justify Marginal performance, identify a significant event in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A Marginal rating should be supported by referencing the management tool that notified the contractor of the contractual deficiency (e.g., management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency report or letter).



Unsatisfactory 

Definition:  Performance does not meet most contractual requirements and recovery is not likely in a timely manner.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains a serious problem(s) for which the contractor’s corrective actions appear or were ineffective.

Note:  To justify an Unsatisfactory rating, identify multiple significant events in each category that the contractor had trouble overcoming and state how it impacted the Government.  A singular problem, however, could be of such serious magnitude that it alone constitutes an unsatisfactory rating.  An Unsatisfactory rating should be supported by referencing the management tools used to notify the contractor of the contractual deficiencies (e.g., management, quality, safety, or environmental deficiency reports, or letters).



Not Applicable 

Definition:  Did not apply to this acquisition; or, questionnaire respondent has no knowledge of, and/or did not observe, the contractor’s performance in this area.





PART III - PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 



Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:

In addition, please provide a justification for rating given if above or below satisfactory.



1.  QUALITY OF PRODUCT OR SERVICE:

Justification for Rating:  





2.  TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE:

Justification for Rating:  





3.  COST CONTROL:  

Justification for Rating:  





4.  GOOD BUSINESS RELATIONS:

Justification for Rating:  





5.  MANAGEMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL:

Justification for Rating: 

 



6.  UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS:  (ONLY APPLICABLE TO LARGE BUSINESS CONTRACTORS)

 Justification for Rating:  





7.  ANY ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, i.e., SAFETY, SECURITY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE, MAINTENANCE OF GFE, etc.: 

Justification for Rating:  





Please CIRCLE your response below each question based on the following scale:

In addition, please provide an explanation when necessary.



8.  MEETS MOST ACCEPTABLE PERFORMANCE LEVELS (APLs) AND/OR CONTRACT QUALITY STANDARDS:

If no, please explain:





9.  RESPONDS TO COMPLAINTS IN A TIMELY MANNER:

If no, please explain:





10.  DISPUTES THE SCOPE OF THE REQUIREMENT:

If yes, please explain:





11.  SUBMITS REASONABLE PRICE PROPOSALS ON CONTRACT CHANGES:

If no, please explain:







12.  HAS PROBLEMS WITH PAYROLL, PAYING FOR SUPPLIES, OR SUBCONTRACTORS:

If yes, please explain:





13.  DIFFICULT WHEN NEGOTIATING CHANGES:

If yes, please explain:





14.  PRO-ACTIVELY ANTICIPATES, AVOIDS, OR MITIGATES PROBLEMS:

If no, please explain:





15.  BILLING IS TIMELY, ACCURATE, AND COMPLETE:

If no, please explain:





16.  IF GIVEN A CHOICE, WOULD YOU AWARD TO THIS CONTRACTOR AGAIN:

If no, please explain:





17.  PLEASE PROVIDE ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THIS CONTRACTOR’S PERFORMANCE, IF APPLICABLE:





PART IV - GENERAL PROGRAM INFORMATION

Please provide a brief description of the services/supplies provided under the contract administered by your organization:  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Contract Original Dollar Amount: ____________________

Contract Current Dollar Amount:  ____________________

Contract Original Period of Performance:  ______________ 

Contract Current Period of Performance:   ______________



Evaluator’s Name:  _____________________Evaluator’s Signature:  ________________________                                

Evaluator’s Title:  ___________________Evaluator’s Telephone Number:  ___________________

Agency or Business:  ______________________________________________________________ Address:  ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

NOTICE:  WHEN COMPLETED, THIS QUESTIONNAIRE WILL BE CONSIDERED SOURCE SELECTION SENSITIVE INFORMATION IAW FAR 3.104.



Exceptional

Very Good

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Exceptional

Very Good 

Satisfactory

Marginal

Unsatisfactory

Not Applicable



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



Yes

No



 Yes

NoSOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 1000015852 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 1 OF 52

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

a. NAME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No Collect calls) Phone: 717-770-7373 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS SMALL BUSINESS UNRESTRICTED OR

Brenda Delawder PNN0007 CODE SP3300

8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME 2014 JAN 15 02:00 PM SET ASIDE: 100 % FOR:

DLA DISTRIBUTION OFFICE OF PROCUREMENT - EBS 2001 MISSION DRIVE NEW CUMBERLAND PA 17070-5000 USA

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM EDWOSB 8 (A) NAICS: 541513 SIZE STANDARD: $25,500,000 13b. RATING

11. DELIVERYFOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED

SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE RFP

SEE SCHEDULE 17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE 18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED OFFER SEE ADDENDUM 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES See Schedule 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA 26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or Print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or Print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012)
Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 33. SHIP NUMBER 34. VOUCHER NUMBER 36. PAYMENT COMPLETE 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY PARTIAL FINAL 37. CHECK NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

PARTIAL

FINAL

38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) BACK

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 3 OF 52 PAGES

NOTICE TO OFFERORS 1. This Request for Proposal (RFP) is being issued as a 100% Small Business Set Aside acquisition to establish an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) contract with Firm Fixed Price task orders to provide Web Applications Information Technology (IT) support services at DLA Information Operations at New Cumberland. 2. The period of performance will be one (1) base year and four (4) one (1) year options as follows: Base Year: 25 September 2014 through 24 October 2015 Option Year One if exercised: 25 October 2015 through 24 October 2016 Option Year Two if exercised: 25 October 2016 through 24 October 2017 Option Year Three if exercised: 25 October 2017 through 24 October 2018 Option Year Four if exercised: 25 October 2018 through 24 October 2019 3. Due date and time for proposal questions is 11:00 AM Eastern Time on Thursday, 5 December 2013. Questions must be submitted in accordance with the instructions found in the solicitation. 4. Due date and time for proposal submission is 14:00 AM Eastern Time on Wednesday, 15 January 2014. Proposals must be submitted in accordance with the instructions found in the solicitation. 5. Invoicing Instructions: Invoices shall be submitted on a monthly basis in accordance with the task order invoicing instructions, DFARS 252.232-7000, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (June 2012), and DFARS 252.232-7006, Wide Area Workflow Payment instructions (June 2012). 6. The Government is not soliciting for the "same old way" of doing business. The Government encourages proposals that will achieve savings through innovative processes. Furthermore, DLA Distribution personnel are working to eliminate unnecessary requirements and negotiating for a reduction in material prices. Therefore, your assistance is requested in not only reducing prices but also, request submitting all of your ideas for how to improve our buying processes to reduce material costs. 7. As noted in the Attachment to this RFP, DD Form 254, offerors are required to have a Secret Facility Clearance. The prime contractor must have a current or interim Secret facility clearance at time of solicitation closing, in order to be eligible for evaluation. The Government will not sponsor Secret facility clearances during solicitation or prior to contract award. Contract award will not be delayed because of pending security clearances. 8. This requirement will be a follow-on contract to contract number SP3300-11-F-0014, which was continued under contract number SP3300-11-F-1194, for which the incumbent was E&E IT Consulting Services, Inc. The period of performance for the contracts was 25 October 2010 through 24 October 2013. Currently, there is a one year contract in place, SP3300-14-F-0006, until 24 October 2014, with E&E Consulting Services, Inc.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 4 OF 52 PAGES

Form Schedule of Supplies and Services

NOTE: FOR CLIN X001: The contractor shall be required to propose the number of hours for each applicable labor category listed in the solicitation/contract when a task order is required. The Government and the contractor will negotiate a price to complete the task order based on the number of hours agreed to by both parties. When the task order is issued, the price shall be firm fixed price, regardless of actual hours expended for each labor category required to complete the task. The total firm fixed price for each task order will be divided by the number of months for the task order period of performance to determine the monthly unit price. The unit of issue for the task order will be the number of months for the task order performance period. DOLLAR AMOUNTS FOR SECTION B. See the table of labor categories and hours associated with each labor category at the Attachment to the RFP/contract. The contractor shall complete this table, and transfer the total dollar amounts for each CLIN 0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, and 4001, to the corresponding AMOUNT for the CLINs below. ITEM NO. 0001 SUPPLIES/SERVICES BASE YEAR Period of Performance: 25 Sep 2014 - 24 Sep 2015 Web Applications Support Services in accordance with SOW Para.2.1 BASE YEAR Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. . TOTAL BASE YEAR CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR ONE Period of Performance: QTY UNIT EA UNIT PRICE AMOUNT

0002

15,000

UN

$1.00 $15,000.00

1001

EA

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 5 OF 52 PAGES

25 Sep 2015 - 24 Sep 2016 Web Applications Support Services in accordance with SOW Para.2.1 OPTION YEAR ONE Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. . TOTAL OPTION YEAR ONE CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR TWO Period of Performance: 25 Sep 2016 ­ 24 Sep 2017 Web Applications Support Services in accordance with SOW Para.2.1 OPTION YEAR TWO Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. .
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

1002

15,000

UN

$1.00 $15,000.00

2001

EA

$1.00

2002

15,000

UN

$1.00 $15,000.00

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 6 OF 52 PAGES

3001

TOTAL OPTION YEAR TWO CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR THREE Period of Performance: 25 Sep 2017 ­ 24 Sep 2018 Web Applications Support Services in accordance with SOW Para.2.1 OPTION YEAR THREE Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. . TOTAL OPTION YEAR THREE CEILING PRICE OPTION YEAR FOUR Period of Performance: 25 Sep 2018 ­ 24 Sep 2019 Web Applications Support Services in accordance with SOW Para.2.1 OPTION YEAR FOUR Travel ­ NOT TO EXCEED Cost Reimbursement ­ No Fee. The costs for travel, subsistence, and lodging shall be reimbursed to the contractor only to the extent that is it necessary and authorized for performance of work under this contract. These costs shall be reimbursed to the contractor in accordance with FAR 31.20546(a)(2), only to the extent that they

EA

3002

15,000

UN

$1.00 $15,000.00

4001

EA

4002

15,000

UN

$1.00 $15,000.00

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 7 OF 52 PAGES

do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the JTR per diem rates. . TOTAL OPTION YEAR FOUR CEILING PRICE TOTAL CONTRACT CEILING PRICE (CLINS 0001 through 4002)

Part 12 Clauses Addendum to FAR 52.212-4

FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions ­ Commercial Items (Sep 2013): The following clauses are hereby incorporated by reference: FAR 52.203-3 Gratuities (APR 1984) FAR 52.203-12, Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010) FAR 52.204-2 Security Requirements (AUG 1996) FAR 52.204-4, Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper (MAY 2011) FAR 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011) FAR 52.216-11 Cost Contract -- No Fee (APR 1984) (Applicable to CLINs 0002, 1002, 2002, 3002, and 4002 only) FAR 52.223-5 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (MAY 2011) FAR 52.223-10 Waste Reduction Program (MAY 2011) FAR 52.227-1 Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) FAR 52.227-2 Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement (DEC 2007) FAR 52.228-5 Insurance ­ Work on a Government Installation (JAN 1997) FAR 52.237-2 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (APR 1984) FAR 52.237-3 Continuity of Services (JAN 1991) FAR 52.242-13 Bankruptcy (JUL 1995)
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 8 OF 52 PAGES

DFARS 252.203-7002 Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights (SEP 2013) DFARS 252.203-7003 Agency Office of the Inspector General (DEC 2012) DFARS 252.204-7000 Disclosure of Information (DEC 1991) DFARS 252.204-7003, Control of Government Personnel Work Product (APR 1992)

DFARS 252.205-7000 Provision of Information to Cooperative Agreement Holders (Dec 1991)

DFARS 252.209-7004 Subcontracting with Firms That Are Owned or Controlled by the Government of a Terrorist Country (DEC 2006)

DFARS 252.223-7006 Prohibition on Storage and Disposal of Toxic and Hazardous Materials (APR 2012) DFARS 252.226-7001, Utilization of Indian Organizations, Indian Owned Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business Concerns (SEP 2004)

DFARS 252.232-7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports (JUN 2012) DFARS 252.232-7010 Levies on Contract Payments (DEC 2006)
DFARS 252.239-7001 Information Assurance Contractor Training and Certification (JAN 2008)

DFARS 252.243-7002 Requests for Equitable Adjustments (Dec 2012) DFARS 252.244-7000, Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Jun 2013) The following clauses are hereby incorporated by full text:
52.216-19 -- Order Limitations (Oct 1995) (a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $25,000 [insert dollar figure or quantity], the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor -(1) Any order for a single item in excess of $4,000,000 [insert dollar figure or quantity]; (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of $4,000,000 [insert dollar figure or quantity]; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within fifteen (15) days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 9 OF 52 PAGES

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within ten days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of Clause)

FAR 52.216-22, Indefinite Quantity (OCT 1995)
(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 25 October 2020.. (End of Clause) FAR 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days of the last day of any option period.
FAR 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed five (5) years and six (6) (months). (End of Clause) FAR 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j-336/icps.htm . (This page can also be reached by accessing the J-71 Web page at http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j336/logisticspolicy/procurementlinks2.htm and selecting "Go to FAR/DFARS & Local Clauses." http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ (End of Clause) CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 10 OF 52 PAGES

DFARS 252.201-7000 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 1991) (a) Definition. "Contracting officer's representative" means an individual designated in accordance with subsection 201.602-2 of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions. (b) If the Contracting Officer designates a contracting officer's representative (COR), the Contractor will receive a copy of the written designation. It will specify the extent of the COR's authority to act on behalf of the contracting officer. The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or changes that will affect price, quality, quantity, delivery, or any other term or condition of the contract. (End of clause)

DFARS 252.215-7008 ORDERING (MAY 2011) (a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the contract schedule. Such orders may be issued from 24 September 2014 through 25 October 2019. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c)(1) If issued electronically, the order is considered "issued" when a copy has been posted to the Electronic Document Access system, and notice has been sent to the Contractor. (2) If mailed or transmitted by facsimile, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail or transmits by facsimile. Mailing includes transmittal by U.S. mail or private delivery services. (3) Orders may be issued orally only if authorized in the schedule. (End of Clause) DFARS 252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (JUN 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- "Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC)" is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization. "Document type" means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF). "Local processing office (LPO)" is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system. (b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports. (c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall-- (1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the Central Contractor Registration at https://www.acquisition.gov; and (2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for selfregistration available at this web site. (d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the "Web Based Training" link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/ (e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol. (f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract/order: (1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s). 2-in-1 Invoice Note: If a "Combo" document type is identified but not supportable by the Contractor's business systems, an "Invoice" (stand-alone) and "Receiving Report" (stand-alone) document type may be used instead.)
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 11 OF 52 PAGES

(2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the contracting officer. Not Applicable (3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the system. Routing Data Table* Field Name in WAWF Data to be entered in WAWF Pay Official DoDAAC Issue By DoDAAC Admin DoDAAC Inspect By DoDAAC Ship To Code Ship From Code Mark For Code Service Approver (DoDAAC) Service Acceptor (DoDAAC) Accept at Other DoDAAC LPO DoDAAC DCAA Auditor DoDAAC
SP3300 SP3300 SP3300 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A SP3300 N/A N/A N/A

N/A Other DoDAAC(s) (4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request. (5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the e-mail address identified below in the "Send Additional Email Notifications" field of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system. judy.coleman@dla.mil; tracy.birch@dla.mil (g) WAWF point of contact. (1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's WAWF point of contact. Ken Decker at Kenneth.decker@dla.mil (2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988. (End of clause) DLAD 52.204-9000 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (MAR 2012) (a) Work to be performed under this contract or task order may, in full or in part, be performed at the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Headquarters (HQ) or other DLA field activity office(s), with physical access to a Federally-controlled facility. Prior to beginning work on a contract, DLA and its field activity offices require all contractor personnel working on the Federally-controlled facility to have a favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI) or NACI equivalent. (b) Additionally, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Programs, and DLA Issuance 4314, Personnel Security Program, all DoD Contractor personnel who have access to Federally-controlled information systems must be assigned to positions which are designated at one of three information technology (IT) levels, each requiring a certain level of investigation and clearance, as follows: CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 12 OF 52 PAGES

(1) IT-I for an IT position requiring a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) or SSBI equivalent; (2) IT-II for an IT position requiring a National Agency Check with Law and Credit (NACLC) or NACLC equivalent; and (3) IT-III for an IT position requiring a NACI or equivalent. Note: IT levels will be designated according to the criteria in DoD 5200.2-R. (c) Previously completed security investigations may be accepted by the Government in lieu of new investigations if determined by the DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office to be essentially equivalent in scope to the contract requirements. The length of time elapsed since the previous investigation will also be considered in determining whether a new investigation is warranted. To assist the Government in making this determination, the Contractor must provide the following information to the respective DLA Personnel Security Office immediately upon receipt of the contract. This information must be provided for each Contractor employee who will perform work on a Federally-controlled facility and/or will require access to Federallycontrolled information systems: (1) Full name, with middle name, as applicable, with social security number; (2) Citizenship status with date and place of birth; (3) Proof of the individual's favorably adjudicated background investigation or NACI, consisting of identification of the type of investigation performed, date of the favorable adjudication, and name of the agency that performed the investigation; (4) Company name, address, phone and fax numbers with email address; (5) Location of on-site workstation or phone number if off-site (if known by the time of award); and (6) Delivery order or contract number and expiration date; and name of the Contracting Officer. (d) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor is notified as soon as a determination is made by the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office regarding acceptance of the previous investigation and clearance level. (1) If a new investigation is deemed necessary, the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be notified by the respective DLA Personnel Security Office after appropriate checks in DoD databases have been made. (2) If the Contractor employee requires access to classified information and currently does not have the appropriate clearance level and/or an active security clearance, the DLA Personnel Security Office will relay this information to the Contractor and Contracting Officer for further action. (3) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the respective DLA Personnel Security Office initiates the investigation for the required clearance level(s) of the Contractor personnel. (4) It is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that adequate information is provided and that each Contractor employee completes the appropriate paperwork, as required either by the Contracting Officer or the DLA Personnel Security Office, in order to begin the investigation process for the required clearance level. (e) The Contractor is responsible for ensuring that each Contractor employee assigned to the position has the appropriate security clearance level. (f) The Contractor shall submit each request for IT access and investigation through the contracting officer to the assigned or cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office. Requests shall include the following information and/or documentation: (1) Standard Form (SF) 85, Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or the SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions (see note below); (2) Proof of citizenship (i.e., an original or a certified copy of a birth certificate, passport, or naturalization certificate); and (3) Form FD-258, fingerprint card (however, fingerprinting can be performed by the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office). (Note to (f)(1) above: An investigation request is facilitated through use of the SF 85 or the SF 86. These forms with instructions as well as the Optional Form (OF) 306, Declaration for Federal Employment, which is required with submission of the SF85 or SF 86, are available at the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) system called Electronic ­Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP).
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 13 OF 52 PAGES

Hard copies of the SF85 and SF86 are available at OPM's web-site, www.opm.gov, but hard copies of the forms are not accepted.) (g) Required documentation, listed above in paragraphs (f) (1) through (3), must be provided by the Contractor as directed by the Contracting Officer to the cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office at the time of fingerprinting or prior to the DLA Security Office releasing the investigation to the Office of Personnel Management. (h) Upon completion of the NACI, NACLC, SSBI, or other sufficient, appropriate investigation, the results of the investigation will be forwarded by the office performing the investigation to either the appropriate adjudication facility for eligibility determination or the DLA Intelligence Security Division for review and determination regarding the applicant's suitability to occupy an unescorted entry position in performance of the DLA contract. Contractor personnel shall not commence work on this effort until the investigation has been favorably adjudicated or has been waived into the position pending completion of adjudication. The DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office will ensure that results of investigations will be sent by the office performing the investigation to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) or DLA Intelligence Personnel Security Office. (i) A waiver for an IT-I or IT-II position to allow assignment of an individual Contractor employee to commence work prior to completion of the investigation may be granted in emergency situations when it is determined that a delay would be harmful to national security. A request for waiver will be considered only after the Government is in receipt of the individual Contractor employee's completed forms. The request for a waiver must be approved by the Commander/Director or an authorized representative of the site. The cognizant DLA Personnel Security Office reserves the right to determine whether a waiver request will be forwarded for processing, however, there will be no waiver for an IT-III position. The individual Contractor employee for which the waiver is being requested may not be assigned to a position, that is, physically work at the Federallycontrolled facility and/or be granted access to Federally-controlled information systems, until the waiver has been approved. (j) The requirements of this clause apply to the prime Contractor and any subcontractors the prime Contractor may employ during the course of this contract, as well as any temporary employees that may be hired by the Contractor. The Government retains the right to request removal of Contractor personnel, regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status whose actions, while assigned to this contract, who are determined by the Contracting Officer to conflict with the interests of the Government. If such removal occurs, the Contractor shall assign qualified personnel, with the required investigation, to any vacancy. (k) All Contractor personnel who are granted access to Government and/or Federally-controlled information systems shall observe all local automated information system (AIS) security policies and procedures as provided by the DLA site Information Systems Security Officer. Violations of local AIS security policy, such as password sharing, performing personal work, file access violations, or browsing files outside the scope of the contract, will result in removal of the Contractor employee from Government property and referral to the Contractor for appropriate disciplinary action. Actions taken by the Contractor in response to a violation will be evaluated and will be reflected in the Contractor's performance assessment for use in making future source selection decisions. In addition, based on the nature and extent of any violations of AIS security policy, the Government will consider whether it needs to pursue any other actions under the contract such as a possible termination. (l) The Contractor is also required to obtain a common access card (CAC) for each contractor employee in accordance with procedures established at the DLA HQ or field activity office. When a CAC is required, the Contracting Officer will ensure that the contractor follows the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12. (m) Contractor personnel must additionally receive operations security (OPSEC) and information security (INFOSEC) awareness training. The DLA annual OPSEC refresher training and DLA annual INFOSEC training will satisfy these requirements and are available through the DLA Intelligence Office. (n) When a Contractor employee who has been granted a clearance is removed from the contract, the Contractor shall provide an appropriately trained substitute who has met or will meet the investigative
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 14 OF 52 PAGES

requirements of this clause. The substitute may not begin work on the contract without written documentation, signed by the Contracting Officer, stating that the new Contractor employee has met one of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), or (i) of this clause, (i.e., acceptance of a previously completed security investigation, satisfactory completion of a new investigation, or a waiver allowing work to begin pending completion of an investigation). Contractor individual employees removed from this contract as a result of a violation of local AIS security policy are removed for the duration of the contract. (o) The Contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing, within 12 hours, when a Contractor employee working on this contract resigns, is reassigned, terminated or no longer requires admittance to the Federallycontrolled facility or access to Federally-controlled information systems. When the Contractor employee departs, the Contractor will relay departure information to the cognizant DLA Security Office so appropriate databases can be updated. The Contractor will ensure each departed employee has completed the DLA J6 Out-Processing Checklist, when applicable, for the necessary security briefing, has returned any Governmentfurnished equipment, returned the DoD CAC and DLA (or equivalent) badge, returned any DoD or DLA vehicle decal, and requested deletion of local area network account with a prepared Department of Defense (DD) form 2875. The Contractor will be responsible for any costs involved for failure to complete the out-processing, including recovery of Government property and investigation involved. (p) These Contractor security requirements do not excuse the Contractor from meeting the delivery schedule set forth in the contract, or waive the delivery schedule in any way. The Contractor shall meet the required delivery schedule unless the contracting officer grants a waiver or extension. (q) The Contractor shall not bill for personnel, who are not working on the contract while that Contractor employee's clearance investigation is pending. (End of Clause) DLAD 52.228-9000 INSURANCE (NOV 2011)
(a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire period of any resulting contract, including any extensions granted by contract modification, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance noted here: (1) Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability - $150,000 (except in states with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers' compensation to be written by private carriers.) (2) General Liability- $500,000 per occurrence (3) Automobile Liability ­ Property damage $20,000 per occurrence, bodily injury $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence. (b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall provide a copy of all subcontractors' proofs of required insurance no later than five (5) days before each subcontractor commences work on the Government installation. (End of clause) ACCESSIBILITY OF E&IT PRODUCTS TO PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES (SECTION 508 OF THE REHABILITATION ACT) Unless otherwise specified, all products (supplies or services) furnished under this contract shall comply with the applicable Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR part 1194. CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORTING SYSTEM (CPARS) REQUIREMENTS (a) The contractor, in performing this contract, will be subject to a past performance assessment in accordance with FAR 42.15 and the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) training materials can be found at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/allapps/cpartrng/documents/CPARS%20Presentation.pdf. All information contained in the assessment may be used by the Government, within the limitations of FAR 42.15, for future source selections in accordance with FAR 15.304 where past performance is an evaluation factor. Assessments will be conducted as prescribed by CPARS guidance. (b) The contractor will be provided with a copy of the assessment. The contractor will have 30 calendar-days to submit comments, additional information, or rebut statements if warranted or desired. The contractor must strictly control access to the assessment while in the Contractor's possession and must ensure that the assessment is never released to persons or entities outside of the contractor's control. After receipt of Contractor's comments or expiration of the 30 day comment period, whichever occurs first, and depending on the Contractor's response the Government will: CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 15 OF 52 PAGES

(1) If no comments are received; close the CPAR by the Assessing Official Rep and Reviewing Official; (2) If the Contractor concurs with the assessment; accept/update and close the CPARS and forward comments to all reviewers; (3) If Contractor does not concur with the assessment, coordinate a final response with Reviewing Official, Assessing Official Representative, and Assessing Official;. (4) Enter the final government response and close CPARS. (c) After completion of one of the appropriate actions, the Assessing Official will notify all individuals that the report is complete. The assessment is considered complete when signed by the Assessing or Reviewing Official. (d) The official responsible for the corporate operating unit being assessed can submit a written request to receive a copy of the completed CPARS assessment. The assessment is not subject to the Disputes clause of the contract, nor is it subject to appeal beyond the review and comment procedures described above and in the CPARS Guide. (e) Refer to http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/ for details and additional information related to CPARS, CPARS user access (which includes obtaining a PKI certificate), how contract performance assessments are conducted, and how contractors participate. ILLEGAL ITEMS NOT AUTHORIZED ON FEDERAL INSTALLATION Illegal drugs, guns or other contraband are not authorized on this Federal installation. It is the contractor's responsibility to ensure that its employees working on-site at this installation are U. S. citizens or legal aliens with no outstanding warrants. This installation is manned by a DoD Police Force who possesses apprehension authority, which includes holding suspects for local authorities. The local authorities can issue a citation that charges the individual with a specific offense and requires the individual to appear before a Federal Magistrate. This agency processes illegal aliens in accordance with INS instructions. MARK CONTRACT NUMBER ON ALL CORRESPONDENCE Contractor must mark the contract or purchase order number on all paperwork and shipments. The order number must appear on the exterior of the shipment. Failure to follow these instructions will hold up payment to you and could result in the return of merchandise at your expense. MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES The Contractor personnel are employees of the Contractor and under the administrative control and supervision of the Contractor. The Contractor, through its personnel, shall perform the tasks prescribed in the Performance Work Statement/Statement of Work. The Contractor shall select, supervise, and exercise control and direction over its employees under this contract. The Contractor shall not supervise, direct, or control the activities of the Government personnel or the employee of any other contractor, except any subcontractor employed by the Contractor on this contract. The Government shall not exercise any supervision or control over the Contractor in the performance of contractual services under this contract. The Contractor is accountable to the Government for the actions of its personnel. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST (a) The contractor shall be ineligible from participation as a contractor, subcontractor, or consultant in any procurement arising or resulting from any of the services provided to DDC on this contract. This restriction includes providing services to any potential bidders on such procurements. The contractor shall not incorporate its product or services in any statement of work or specification unless directed to do so in writing by the Contracting Officer. (b) If the contractor in the performance of this contract, obtains access to information such as plans, polices, reports, studies, financial data, internal data, or any other non-public information or information by the Privacy Act, the contractor agrees not to release such information without prior written approval from the Contracting Officer. The use of such information for personal gain is prohibited. (c) In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with any restrictions imposed on such information.

FAR 52.212-5

Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items (Sep 2013)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 16 OF 52 PAGES

_X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402). _X__ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). _X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Aug 2013) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). _X__ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (41 U.S.C. 2313). ___ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Public Law 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ___ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (11) [Reserved] __X_ (12) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). ___ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). ___ (13) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _X_ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (15) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9. ___ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 17 OF 52 PAGES

_X_ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (19) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ___ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 103355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f). _X_ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ___ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ___ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). ___ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). _X_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _X_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _X_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _X_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _X_ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (35) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-theshelf items.) ___ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (37) (i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 18 OF 52 PAGES

___ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16. _X_ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011). ___ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). ___ (40) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (Nov 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (iv) Alternate III (Nov 2012) of 52.225-3. ___ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Sep 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X_ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (43) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2303 Note). ___ (44) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (45) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (46) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (47) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X_ (48) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (49) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (50) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (51) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (52) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 19 OF 52 PAGES

___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act -- Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). ___ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). ___ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). ___ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 20 OF 52 PAGES

(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). (xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause)

Instructions INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS ADDENDA TO FAR 52.212-1 ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS ­ COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013) Reference paragraph (c) under referenced provision FAR 52.212-1. This paragraph is tailored to read as follows: (c) Period of acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers. The following paragraph under referenced provision 52.212-1 is hereby deleted: (d) Product Samples; (e) Multiple Offers (h) Multiple awards Provisions Incorporated by Reference: CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 21 OF 52 PAGES

DFARS 252.203-7005 Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials (Nov 2011) DFARS 252.209-7001 Disclosure of Ownership or Control by the Government of a Terrorist Country (Jan 2009) Provisions Incorporated in Full Text:

DFARS 252.215-7008, Only One Offer (JUN 2012) (a) The provision at FAR 52.215-20, Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data, with any alternate included in this solicitation, does not take effect unless the Contracting Officer notifies the offeror that-- (1) Only one offer was received; and (2) Additional cost or pricing data is required in order to determine whether the price is fair and reasonable or to comply with the statutory requirement for certified cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. 2306a and FAR 15.403-3). (b) Upon such notification, the offeror agrees, by submission of its offer, to provide any data requested by the Contracting Officer in accordance with FAR 52.215-20. (c) If negotiations are conducted, the negotiated price should not exceed the offered price. (End of Provision)

FAR 52.215-20 -- Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data, Alternate IV (Oct 2010) (a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required. (b) Provide information described below: For CLIN 0001, 1001, 2001, 3001, and 4001 for Web Applications IT Support Services: Labor Categories Number of Productive Labor Hours per Labor Category Burdened Labor Rate for each labor category (End of Provision)
FAR 52.216-1 Type of Contract (Apr 1984) The Government contemplates award of a single award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract with Firm Fixed Price Task Orders resulting from this solicitation. (End of Provision) FAR 52.233-2 Service of Protest (Sep 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Joni L. Stephens, Acquisition Operations, DLA Distribution, J Ave, Building 404, New Cumberland PA 17070 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of Provision) FAR 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998) CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 22 OF 52 PAGES

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j-336/icps.htm . (This page can also be reached by accessing the J-71 Web page at http://www.dla.mil/j-3/j336/logisticspolicy/procurementlinks2.htm and selecting "Go to FAR/DFARS & Local Clauses." http://farsite.hill.af.mil/ (End of Provision)

DLAD 52.233-9000 Agency Protests (Nov 2011) Companies protesting this procurement may file a protest (1) with the Contracting Officer, (2) with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), or (3) pursuant to Executive Order Number 12979, with the Agency for a decision by the Activity's Chief of the Contracting Office. (b) Protests filed with the agency should clearly state that they are an "Agency Level Protest under Executive Order Number 12979." (c) Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) procedures for Agency Level Protests filed under Executive Order Number 12979 allow for a higher level decision on the initial protest than would occur with a protest to the Contracting Officer; this process is not an appellate review of a Contracting Officer's decision on a protest previously filed with the Contracting Officer. Absent a clear indication of the intent to file an agency level protest, protests will be presumed to be protests to the Contracting Officer. (End of Provision) DLAD 52.233-9001 Disputes: Agreement to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution (Nov 2011) (a) The parties agree to negotiate with each other to try to resolve any disputes that may arise. If unassisted negotiations are unsuccessful, the parties will use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques to try to resolve the dispute. Litigation will only be considered as a last resort when ADR is unsuccessful or has been documented by the party rejecting ADR to be inappropriate for resolving the dispute. (b) Before either party determines ADR inappropriate, that party must discuss the use of ADR with the other party. The documentation rejecting ADR must be signed by an official authorized to bind the Contractor (see Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.2331), or, for the Agency, by the Contracting Officer, and approved at a level above the Contracting Officer after consultation with the ADR Specialist and with legal. Contractor personnel are also encouraged to include the ADR Specialist in their discussions with the Contracting Officer before determining ADR to be inappropriate. (c) The offeror should check here to opt out of this clause: [ ] Alternate wording may be negotiated with the Contracting Officer. (End of Provision)

DLAD 52.237-9002 Key Personnel ­ Fixed-Price Service Contracts (Apr 2008) (a) Certain skilled, experienced, professional and/or technical personnel are essential for successful accomplishment of the work to be performed under this contract. These are defined as "Key Personnel" and are those persons whose resumes were submitted as part of the technical/business proposal for evaluation. The Contractor agrees to use said key personnel during the performance of this contract and that they shall not be removed from the contract work or replaced unless authorized in accordance with this clause. (b) The Contractor shall not substitute key personnel assigned to perform work under this contract without the prior approval of the Contracting Officer. Requests for approval of substitutions shall be in writing and shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions. The request must contain a complete resume for the proposed substitute, and any other information requested or needed by the Contracting Officer to approve or disapprove the request. Proposed substitutes must have qualifications that are equal to or higher than the key personnel being replaced. The Contracting Officer or his/her authorized representative shall evaluate such requests and promptly notify the Contractor in writing whether the proposed substitution is acceptable.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 23 OF 52 PAGES

(c) If the Contracting Officer determines that suitable and timely replacement of key personnel who have been reassigned, terminated or have otherwise become unavailable for the contract work is not reasonably forthcoming, or the resultant substitution would be so substantial as to impair the successful completion of the contract or the delivery order in accordance with the proposal accepted by the Government at time of contract award, the Contracting Officer may (1) terminate the contract for default or for the convenience of the Government, as appropriate, or (2) if the Contracting Officer finds the Contractor at fault for the condition, equitably adjust the contract price downward to compensate the Government for any resultant delay, loss or damage. (d) The provisions of this clause shall be fully applicable to any subcontract which may be entered into. (End of Provision) Instructions to Offerors This acquisition will be negotiated in accordance FAR Subpart 12--Acquisition of Commercial Items and FAR 15--Contracting By Negotiations. Communications Between the Government and Offerors: Questions regarding this solicitation prior to proposal submission may occur for the purpose of clarifying elements of the solicitation. Questions concerning this solicitation shall be submitted by electronic mail to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder to Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil, with the subject: Solicitation SP3300-14-R-0001. Offerors shall submit any questions regarding the solicitation in an MS Word Table landscape format with the following column headings: Question RFP Page RFP Para Name of Firm POC Tel No. Fax No. e-mail

No information concerning this RFP or requests for clarification will be provided in response to offeror-initiated telephone calls. All such requests must be made by electronic mail in the format noted above and submitted to the above email address. Inquiries will be answered in writing and provided to all offerors. To avoid a delay in the procurement process, all questions regarding this RFP must be received by 11:00 a.m. eastern local time on Thursday, 5 December 2013. Questions received after this date and time may not receive a response. Proposal Submission Instructions: The hour and date for receipt of offers is 2:00pm eastern local time on 15 January 2014. HARD COPY OFFERS MUST BE RECEIVED IN THIS OFFICE BY THIS DATE AND TIME. Facsimile and email submissions of proposals will not be accepted.

Proposals sent via US Postal Service shall be addressed to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder and mailed to:
DLA DISTRIBUTION ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER ACQUISTION OPERATIONS 5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404 NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059 Proposals sent via Commercial Carrier (i.e., FedEx, UPS, DHL, etc.) shall be addressed to the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder and mailed to: DLA DISTRIBUTION ATTN: MS. BRENDA S. DELAWDER ACQUISTION OPERATIONS 5404 J AVENUE, BLDG 404 NEW CUMBERLAND, PA 17070-5059

Note: If packages are sent by commercial carrier, the package must be plainly marked ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE COMMERCIAL CARRIER'S ENVELOPE with the solicitation number, date,
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 24 OF 52 PAGES

and time set forth for receipt of offers as indicated in Blocks 5 & 8, page 1 of the SF 1449. At this time, only FedEx and UPS provide express delivery to the office listed above.
Offerors should e-mail the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) the method in which they sent their proposal and any associated tracking information. If the offeror plans to hand deliver the proposal, the offeror shall contact the Acquisition Specialist via e-mail (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) at least one (1) business day in advance to coordinate the proposal delivery. The packaging of the proposals AND EACH PAGE of the documents submitted must be clearly marked with the Offeror's Name and solicitation number and the following statement: "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY -- SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION - SEE FAR 2.101 AND FAR 3.104" If an offeror has any questions regarding this solicitation or believes that the requirements in this instruction contains an error or omission, the offeror shall immediately notify the Acquisition Specialist, Ms. Brenda S. Delawder (Brenda.Delawder@dla.mil) in writing in the format provided in paragraph 1 on page 4 above. If an offeror believes that the requirements in this instruction are otherwise unsound, the offeror shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer, Joni L. Stephens (joni.stephens@dla.mil), in writing with supporting rationale. The offeror is reminded that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial proposal, as received, without discussions. Submission of a proposal that does not contain all of the items requested may result in elimination from consideration for award.

Organization/Number of Copies/Page Limits: The Offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table below. The titles and contents and number of copies required for each volume are defined in this table. Proposals shall be submitted as three (3) separate volumes as follows:
VOLUME I TITLE Technical Proposal Introduction Factor 1:Technical Capability Subfactor a: Technical Approach Subfactor b: 508 Compliance Factor 2: Management Capability Subfactor a: Management Approach Subfactor b: Staffing Plan Subfactor c: Quality Control Plan Factor 3: Task Order 0001 II III Factor 4: Past Performance Proposal Price Proposal Original & 2 Original & 1 1 1 No page limit N/A PAPER COPIES Original & 4 CD's 1 PAGE LIMITATION No page limit

7. Cross-Referencing: To the greatest extent possible, each volume shall be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with the minimum of cross-referencing to other volumes of the proposal. Information required for proposal evaluation which is not found in its designated volume will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal. Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is permitted where its use would conserve space without impairing clarity. 8. Indexing: Each volume shall contain a more detailed table of contents to delineate the subparagraphs within that volume. The detailed table of contents is not part of or included in the page limitation. Tab indexing shall be used to identify sections. Any crossreference matrix table is not part of the page limitation. 9. Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms: Each volume shall contain a glossary of all abbreviations and acronyms used, with an explanation of each. Glossaries do not count against the page limitations for their respective volumes.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 25 OF 52 PAGES

10.

Page Size and Format: a. The offeror's proposal shall be prepared on standard 8.5 x 11 inch paper and submitted in three-ring binders. Except for the reproduced sections of the solicitation document and chart labels, the text size shall be no less than 10 point font. Use at least 1-inch margins on the top and bottom and ž inch side margins. Pages shall be numbered sequentially by volume. b. Legible tables, charts, graphs and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation schedules, plans, etc. These displays shall not exceed 11 X 17 inches in size. Foldout pages shall fold entirely within the volume, and may only be used for large tables, charts graphs, diagrams and schematics.

11. Binding and Labeling: Each volume of the proposal shall be separately bound in a three-ring loose-leaf binder which shall permit the volume to lie flat when open. Staples shall not be used. A cover sheet should be bound in each book, clearly marked as to volume number, title, copy number, solicitation identification and the offer's name. The same identifying data should be placed on the spine of each binder. Offerors are advised to apply all appropriate markings including those prescribed in FAR 3.104-4, Disclosure, Protection and Marking of Contractor Bid or Proposal Information and Source Selection Information. 12. Electronic Copies (CDs): The proposal shall also be submitted in CD-ROM format. Each volume of the proposal shall also be submitted on a separate CD-ROM. All CDs shall be readable on an IBM PC- compatible system running Microsoft Office 2007, including Microsoft Word 2007 and Microsoft Excel 2007. For each cost breakdown provided in Microsoft Excel format, the Offeror must show and establish clear identifiable links and calculations, such that the Government is able to understand and replicate the numerical data provided. Each CD shall be clearly labeled and each label shall state the offeror's name, solicitation number, date of submission and the proposal volume (name and number) contained on the CD. If more than one CD is required for a volume, the CD shall be labeled as Disk "x" of "y", i.e. Disk 1 of 2. The requirement for the CDs in no way relinquishes the offeror's responsibility to provide hard copies of the cost proposal. If there are any discrepancies between the electronic version and the hardcopy version submitted in response to this RFP, the hardcopy (paper) version will be considered binding. 13. Distribution: The originals shall be clearly identified as the "ORIGINAL", and bear the original signature(s) of the offeror. The "copies" shall be complete and clearly identified a "COPY" or "DUPLICATE". Offerors are advised that the proposal is "For Official Use Only" and are considered "Source Selection Information" ­ See FAR 2.101 & 3.104. 14. Table of Contents: A table of contents for each volume is required. Volume I ­ Technical Proposal The technical proposal should be written so that information technology oriented personnel can make a thorough evaluation and arrive at a sound determination as to whether the proposal meets the requirements of this solicitation. To this end, the technical proposal shall be specific, detailed and complete as to clearly and fully demonstrate that the prospective contractor has a thorough understanding of the technical requirements contained in the Statement of Work (SOW). Statements such as "The Offeror understands", "will comply with the Statement of Work", standard procedures will be employed", "well known techniques will be used", and general paraphrasing of the Statement of Work (SOW) are considered inadequate. The technical proposal must provide details concerning what the contractor will do and how it will be done. This includes a full explanation of the techniques, disciplines, and procedures proposed to be followed. The technical proposal shall not contain any reference to price; however, information concerning labor allocation and categories, labor hours, consultants, travel, materials, equipment, and other information of interest to technical reviewers shall be contained in the technical proposal in sufficient detail so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of the work may be adequately evaluated. The technical proposal shall be page numbered, contain a table of contents, be organized in the following parts, and address in detail the following: Introduction: This section shall provide any necessary background information and an overview of the proposal which the offeror believes will assist in the understanding and accurate evaluation of the proposal. Factor 1: Technical Capability

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 26 OF 52 PAGES

Subfactor a: Technical Approach The Offeror shall submit a detailed description of their technical approach to perform each task in the SOW. The Offeror's technical approach must demonstrate an understanding of the requirements in the SOW and the ability to perform all performance tasks and objectives listed in the SOW while maintaining quality and timeliness. This cannot be a mere summary of the requirements stated in the SOW, but rather the Offeror's detailed approach to performing the requirements that clearly demonstrates his understanding of that work. The approach shall also address as a minimum the Offeror's: Knowledge of the content of the work in terms of constituent activities, their inputs and outputs, and their interrelationships and interdependencies. Recognition of the appropriate sequence and realistic duration of the work activities. Familiarity with difficulties and uncertainties associated with the work. Discussion of potential problems, such as increasing utilization and present strategies dealing with them. Subfactor b: 508 Compliance Requirements

The Offeror shall provide a detailed narrative regarding the process by which the Offeror will address the 508 Compliance Product Requirements identified in the SOW Sub-Section 6.7 and attached GPAT "Software Development Services". Factor 2: Management Capability (Part 2) Subfactor a: Management Approach The Offeror shall describe their overall management methodology and how that methodology will translate into successful contract performance. The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of the responsibilities and authorities for operation and management of this contract. The Offeror shall include such elements as lines of communication. The discussion shall address the processes for resolving priority conflicts for resources and tasks identified in the SOW. Additionally, the Offeror shall discuss: a. The interrelationships of the technical, on-site team and the business management. All interfaces with the Government must be clearly delineated. b. The organizational structure, policies, procedures, and techniques for efficiently managing the work. c. The organizational layout for this contract. The Offeror shall provide an organizational chart specific to this effort, identifying all skill set positions by title. Subfactor b: Staffing Plan The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of their approach to organizing personnel and resources in order to be ready to perform the requirements in a Task Order by the specified start date. To be compliant, the Offeror must address the following items in their proposal. The Offeror's approach shall clearly show that there is an understanding on how their proposed staffing approach supports the task order mobilization requirements and is effective and efficient. The Offeror's approach must address how they will staff for Web Application Support service functions. The Offeror's approach shall include a description of the Offeror's personnel recruitment and retention plans and action plans for adjusting staffing levels in response to fluctuating or surge requirements and accelerated timelines for completion. The Offeror shall address the local and regional labor market and the Offeror's ability to hire qualified personnel. a. Key Personnel: The offeror shall identify the proposed individual for the Project Manager Position and indicate the tasks for which the person is proposed. There will be only one Project Manager Position. It is the only Key Personnel position for this contract. The individual in this position will manage the contract, as well as each task order. A resume shall be submitted for the key personnel position to be assigned to the proposed contract. The resume shall include the relevant qualifications, background, experience, and accomplishments for the key personnel in sufficient detail to demonstrate the capability of such personnel to meet the requirements of the SOW. The work history of the key person should contain experience directly related to the tasks and functions he/she is intended to perform under the proposed contract. The resume shall also include the citizenship, level of security clearance, education (degrees and date of graduation, other schools and certificates, and training certifications). Additionally, the offeror shall provide copies of all required certifications and proof that the certification is current if it is not clearly indicated on the certificate. Additionally, many of the certifications have a continuing education requirement. The offering contractor must provide proof that their proposed employees meet the continuing education requirements for the provided certifications. ALL RESUMES MUST BE MARKED PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII). CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 27 OF 52 PAGES

Offerors shall indicate limitations on the availability of proposed personnel, if any. If the individual is not currently employed by the offeror, explain the rationale for proposing that person. If the key person is not currently employed by the offeror or subcontractor, letter of intent signed by the proposed personnel, contingent upon award of the contract, shall be included with that individual's resume. NOTE: If subcontractors are to be used, resume of the key personnel shall be included in this section with the present company affiliation clearly identified. All of the requirements of this section shall apply to the use of subcontractor personnel, as well as the prime contractor's personnel. Subfactor c: Quality Control Plan The vendor shall provide an initial Quality Control Plan (QCP) in accordance with the SOW with their proposal. The QCP shall include an approach to maintaining acceptable quality standards throughout contract performance, and should address the methods for meeting the performance standards, customer requirements, and complying with applicable regulations. The plan shall provide the quality control methodology, processes, techniques, and tools that will result in meeting or exceeding the performance requirements for quality and timeliness. The QCP should not be a reiteration of the Government's Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP), which is the Government's method for monitoring the quality of the Contractor's performance; instead, the QCP should be the Offeror's approach to ensure that the Acceptable Performance Levels are met and that quality is maintained throughout contract performance. Factor 3: Task Order 0001 This document shall demonstrate the Offeror's understanding and approach to successfully accomplish the requirements associated with the SOW for Task Order 0001. It shall include a Management Plan that addresses methodology for defining the technical approach to accomplish the task(s), personnel assigned to accomplish the task, security and unique requirements, resources chart, proposed travel, best assessment of any additional data required, contents of all deliverables to be provided as a result of accomplishing this task(s), and basis of estimate. Additionally, the Offeror's technical proposal shall include the following information specific to Task Order 0001: Proposed Personnel -- The Offeror shall provide a detailed description of their approach to organizing personnel and resources in order to be ready to perform the requirements of Task Order 0001 by the specified start date. The Offeror's proposal shall address a staffing plan for both key and non-key personnel who will comprise Task Order 0001 labor mix. As stated above, there is only one key personnel for the contract, the project manager, who is responsible for managing each task order. The proposal shall identify the requisite skills, abilities, and knowledge of those individuals who will be responsible for successfully completing all SOW requirements. Non-Key Personnel: Resumes are not required for Non-Key personnel proposed by the contractor. The Government has established certain minimum requirements for personnel which are considered essential for contract performance. These minimums are specified in the PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS section of the SOW. The offeror shall provide a listing of non-key personnel and the labor category for which they are proposed. The individuals proposed must meet the qualifications specified for the labor category they are proposed for in accordance with the Resource Requirements section of the SOW and the offeror shall certify to this fact. The offeror shall provide copies of all required certifications for Non-Key Personnel and proof that the certifications are current, if it is not clearly indicated on the certificate. Additionally, many of the certifications have a continuing education requirement. The offering contractor must provide proof that their proposed employees meet the continuing education requirements for the provided certifications. The Government estimates that the specific labor categories and skill mix to complete this Task Order is as follows: Projected Hours 1920 1920 3840

Labor Category Project Manager/ Senior Web Application Developer Senior Web Application Developer Junior Web Application Developer

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 28 OF 52 PAGES

Work schedule/plan that outlines the total number of their proposed staff and the respective Task Area they will be assigned. Task requirements and approach. A narrative description of the Offeror's understanding and proposed approach; plans for performance, metric and standards appropriate to the task, technical approach, and any problem areas to satisfy the requirement. Milestones and deliverables. A statement of the Offeror's understanding and acceptance of the Government's milestones and deliverables Phase in Plan -- The offeror shall provide a detailed Phase in plan, which discusses the offeror's scheduling, phasing in all functional activities, and milestone dates for implementation. The Phase in period shall have a duration of no more than thirty (30) calendar days. Volume II ­ Factor 4: Past Performance The Offeror shall describe their background, knowledge and experience related to services performed in accordance with the same or similar scope and magnitude that is described in the SOW. Past performance information is used in determining the level of confidence the Government has for successful performance based upon the Offeror's actions under previously awarded, relevant contracts. The Government shall only consider relevant past performance data. To be considered relevant, the Offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of scope, complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, and schedule. The offeror must demonstrate through past performance an ability to perform the work described in the solicitation. This is done by demonstrating that they have successfully executed contracts of similar scope and magnitude within the past five (5) years (the Government recommends submission of at least three relevant contracts, but will evaluate any and all submitted). Offerors shall provide a detailed explanation of the relevance of the contracts or efforts to the requirements as defined in the SOW. If subcontractor experience is provided as part of the relevant contracts, it will be given weight relative to the percentage of effort being provided by that particular subcontractor in the offer submitted. The references will be evaluated in the aggregate in order to allow Offerors who may not have the entire scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement under one individual contract to still be considered relevant if experience with the full scope, magnitude, and complexity of the requirement can be demonstrated within the references submitted. If an offeror or its subcontractor determines they have no past performance data, they shall provide the following statement in lieu of the information requested below: "(Insert offeror or subcontractor's name) has determined that they possess no past performance information in accordance with the RFP." To be compliant with this factor offerors shall provide the following information for both the offeror and proposed subcontractors. (1) An index of previous contract data for the offeror. The index shall contain three (3) or more PRIME contracts and SUBCONTRACTS that the offeror is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. The index shall include: - Contractor Name - Name of the customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Length of contract - Period of performance (dates) - Initial Contract Price - Final Contract Price or price as of the last modification - Description of product/service provided (include sufficient detail to demonstrate the scope and complexity of the product/service provided) - Discussion of the similarities and differences of experience (include sufficient detail to demonstrate similarities/dissimilarities to the requirements of this solicitation) - Facilities in which the product/service was performed - Quality of Past Performance; to include a discussion of actual performance under each contract listed, including problems encountered; how they were resolved; the timeliness of deliverables required; how costs were controlled; business relationships; management of key personnel, and any other areas deemed necessary to provide insight into actual performance issues (2) A narrative synopsis that shall describe the specific nature of the work, similarities with the proposed work and the relevant experience gained.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 29 OF 52 PAGES

(3) An index of Previous Contract Data for all subcontractors containing the information listed in item (1) above as it relates to PRIME and SUBCONTRACTS that the subcontractor is currently performing or has completed during the last five (5) years. (4) Past Performance Questionnaire attached to solicitation. Offerors and all subcontractors shall send this questionnaire to previous customers of prime and subcontracts. All questionnaires shall be submitted to the Government by the proposal due date and time identified in the solicitation. All previous contracts the offeror utilizes for Questionnaire information must be contained in the Previous Contract Data index for the offeror/subcontractor. The offeror/subcontractor shall complete the Previous Contract Data index prior to submitting the questionnaire to the customer. The offeror/subcontractor shall ask the customer to complete the questionnaire and return it directly to the Contract Specialist identified in block 7 of the SF1449. Government evaluation members may contact the named individuals to clarify, obtain additional information, or conduct a telephone survey of past performance. As such, the offeror/subcontractor shall provide a list of all Questionnaires submitted that provides the following information: - Name of the customer/agency - Date submitted to customer/agency - Contract/Purchase Order Number - Customer points of contact (minimum of two, provide name, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail addresses) - Whether the offeror/subcontractor was a Prime or Subcontractor (5) Offerors and their subcontractors may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate technical excellence in the service requested. Examples of such awards or certifications include, the Malcolm Aldridge Quality Award, other Government quality awards, and private sector awards or certifications (e.g., the automobile industries QS 9000, Semitic's SSQA, or ANS/EIA599). Indicate what segment of the company (division or entire company) received the award or certification and the date. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence the qualifications still apply. The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), responses received from the Performance Risk Assessment Questionnaire, data submitted by the offeror, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the offeror's past performance. Volume III: Price Proposal Completed Standard Form 1449. Signed acknowledgements of amendment (SF30). (Applicable only if any amendments are issued against this solicitation). Completed certifications and representations located at FAR 52.212-3 and in the section of the RFP entitled Reps and Certs. The Contractor's Price Proposal shall be submitted for the period of performance in accordance with the Schedule of Supplies/Services CLIN structure as detailed in the solicitation. *Offerors must use the CLINs specified in the Schedule of Supplies/Services.* Subcontracting Costs: A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of total dollar threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. If the offeror is considered a "major subcontractor", the proposal shall include subcontract cost data in the same level of detail as provided for the offeror. Any subcontracting costs shall be supported. If this information is proprietary to subcontractors, it may be provided under separate cover. However, it must be easily identifiable, readily combined with the rest of the proposal, and received within the timeframe (i.e. closing date) established for this instant solicitation. Price information for subcontractors who do not meet the definition of a "major subcontractor" is NOT being requested and will not be evaluated. The offeror shall propose two separate prices proposed under this factor. One price will be for Task Order 0001, based on the hours and labor categories provided under Factor 3. (The hours provided for Task Order 0001, are included in the hours below for the base year). The labor rates proposed for Task Order 0001 shall match the labor rates proposed for the base year. The second price will be based on the table at Attachment 3 to the RFP. The offeror shall include the information for the price proposal, in table format, as indicated below. The offeror shall provide the total price for each year and the total price for all years inclusive of all CLINs based on the Schedule of Supplies/Services identified in the solicitation.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 30 OF 52 PAGES

Attachments List of Attachments Description ATTACH.Attachment 1 SOW for IDIQ contract ATTACH.Attachment 2, Section 508 GPAT File Name Atch 1 - Web Application IDIQ SOW.docx Atch 2 - Section 508 GPAT, Software Development Services.do Atch 3 - Table of Labor Categories and hours.docx Atch 4 - DD 254.pdf

ATTACH.Attachment Table of Labor Categories ATTACH.Attachment 4 DD Form 254 and continuation sheet ATTACH.Attachment 5 SOW for T.O. 0001 ATTACH.Attachment 6 QASP for T.O. 0001 ATTACH.Attachment 7 Past Performance Questionnaire

Atch 5 - Web Application Task Order 0001 SOW .docx Atch 6 - QASP for Task Order 0001 Web App.doc Atch 7 - Past Performance Questionnaire WEB App.docx

Evaluation Criteria FAR 52.212-2 Evaluation ­ Commercial Items (JAN 1999) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Factor 1: Technical Capability Subfactor a: Technical Approach Subfactor b: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Factor 2: Management Capability Subfactor a: Management Approach Subfactor b: Staffing Plan Subfactor c: Quality Control Plan Factor 3: Task Order 0001 Factor 4: Past Performance Record Factor 5: Price The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose offer conforms to the solicitation using the Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA) source selection procedures in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 15.101-2, as supplemented. Technical tradeoffs will not be made and no additional credit will be given for exceeding acceptability. Proposals shall be evaluated for acceptability or unacceptability only and shall not be rated. Offerors must be determined to be responsible according to the standards of FAR Subpart 9 to be eligible for award. Award will be made to the acceptable Offeror with the lowest evaluated price, inclusive of options, which is deemed responsible in accordance with the FAR, and the proposal conforms to the solicitation requirements. The requirements include all stated terms, conditions, representations, certifications and all other requirements of this solicitation. The Government intends to award without discussions; therefore, the initial offer should contain the Offeror's best terms from a cost and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if determined necessary by the Contracting Officer. Offerors are advised that unrealistically low price, initially or subsequently, may be grounds for eliminating a proposal from competition either on the basis that the Offeror does not understand this requirement, or has made an incautious proposal. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 31 OF 52 PAGES

The Government intends to award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process. Proposals shall be evaluated for acceptability or unacceptability only and shall not be rated. Award will be based on the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for the non-price factors. Any Offeror who has submitted a technically acceptable proposal and who has been found to have an acceptable or unknown past performance will then have the proposal evaluated for lowest price. The following non-price factors shall be used to determine acceptability of a proposal:

Factor 1: Technical Capability Subfactor a: Technical Approach Subfactor b: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Factor 2: Management Capability Subfactor a: Management Approach Subfactor b: Staffing Plan Subfactor c: Quality Control Plan Factor 3: Task Order 0001 Factor 4: Past Performance Record Factors 1 through 4 shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the Offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv), Past Performance Evaluation). Therefore, the Offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, "unknown" shall be considered "acceptable." To be considered acceptable and eligible for award, an Offeror must address separately all the factors set forth in accordance with the instructions of this solicitation. A major item and/or gross omission which preclude meeting solicitation objectives which cannot be corrected prior to or during discussions without major revision or complete resubmission of the proposal will cause a proposal to be found technically unacceptable. Proposals evaluated as "Unacceptable" on Factor 1, 2, 3 or 4 will be ineligible for award and, if it is determined to be in the best interest of the Government to hold discussions, may be ineligible for inclusion in the competitive range. An initial proposal evaluation of "Unacceptable" in the Past Performance Factor (Factor 4) will not automatically eliminate an Offeror from the competitive range, but may be considered in making the competitive range determination if communications have been conducted pursuant to FAR 15.306(b)(1)(i). Communications shall be held with Offerors whose past performance information is the determining factor keeping them from being placed within the competitive range if the communications are necessary to allow them to address adverse past performance information to which the Offeror(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond. It is the intention of the Government to award without discussions. However, if it is determined that discussions are required, then the determination of the competitive range will include all proposals which are considered to be technically acceptable, and may include those that are considered to have a reasonable chance of being selected for award, unless the competitive range is further limited in accordance with FAR 15.306(c)(2). If an unacceptable proposal remains unacceptable in any one factor after discussions, it will be unacceptable for award. Those Offerors whose proposals do not fall into the competitive range will be notified as required by FAR 15.503(a)(1). Offerors will be notified in writing with a concise explanation of their proposal deficiencies without jeopardizing the competitive range. Those Offerors whose proposals are determined by the Contracting Officer (KO) to be in the competitive range will be contacted by the Contract Specialist for discussions. Discussions will be conducted in accordance with FAR 15.306(d). If verbal discussions are held they will be followed by a written reiteration of the discussion. Written discussions may also be held, whereby the Government will provide a written list of discussion questions to each Offeror, as appropriate. In the case of both verbal and written discussions, the Offeror will provide a written response to the discussion question and revision to the proposal as required. This response and revision (if required) will be marked accordingly to distinguish it as a supplement to their original proposal. More than one round of discussions may be held. At the conclusion of final discussions, the Government will request each Offeror in the competitive range to submit a Final Proposal Revision (FPR). The FPR will be evaluated as to its revised technical, past performance, and/or pricing approach in response to the issues identified during discussions. The Government then intends, in accordance with the evaluation factors for award set forth below, to award a contract to the Offeror who has submitted the lowest price technically acceptable proposal. A proposal will be determined ineligible for award if Factor 1, Factor 2, Factor 3, or Factor 4 is/are evaluated as "Unacceptable". Factor 1: Technical Capability CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 32 OF 52 PAGES

The Technical Capability Factor has two (2) subfactors: Technical Approach and Section 508 Compliance Requirements. Both subfactors will be evaluated. The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if any of the subfactors are determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. Subfactor a: Technical Approach The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Technical Approach. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror must demonstrate a complete understanding of the SOW requirements and their ability to perform all performance tasks and objectives. Subfactor b: Section 508 Compliance Requirements Responses to this solicitation will only be considered for award after it has been determined that the proposal adequately addresses the requirements for Section 508. EIT Information Content delivered as a result of this solicitation will be accepted based in part on satisfaction of identified Section 508 requirements for accessibility. EIT delivered must include a completed GPAT or VPAT, a GPAT for Software Development Services is included as a part of this solicitation. Factor 2: Management Capability The Management Capability Factor has three (3) subfactors: Management Plan, Staffing Plan and Quality Control Plan. Both subfactors will be evaluated. The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if any of the subfactors are determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. Subfactor a: Management Approach The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Management Plan. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror's Management Plan must reflect a clear understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the required results within the required time frame. This includes: an effective overall management methodology to manage the requirements of the SOW and an effective approach to resolve priority conflicts for the resources to ensure that the requirements of the SOW are met. Subfactor b: Staffing Plan The Offeror's proposal will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Staffing Plan. To be determined acceptable, the Offeror's Staffing Plan must demonstrate a complete understanding of the work required and a reasonable, well-thought-out approach that is likely to yield the required results within the required time frame. This includes: an effective use of personnel to perform the services and an effective approach to fulfill the staffing requirements of the SOW. Subfactor c: Quality Control Plan The entire factor will be considered unacceptable if the Quality Control Plan is determined unacceptable. Based on this evaluation, the Factor will be rated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. The Offeror's approach to Quality Control will be evaluated to determine if the approach is acceptable. To be acceptable, the Quality Control Plan must provide assurance that quality and timeliness will be achieved. Factor 3: Task Order 0001 The Task Order One (1) represents actual work requirements. The Government intends to issue these work requirements as the first task order under this contract. The Offeror will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable approach to fulfill the task order one (1). To determine acceptability, the Offeror will be evaluated on its ability to analyze the tasking objectives as stated in the Task One (1) and to provide the appropriate mix by labor category, skill level and certifications to meet those objectives. In addition, the following will be considered: a) Understanding the requirement(s). The proposal will be evaluated to determine if the offeror demonstrates an acceptable understanding of all tasks and meeting the requirements and the extent to which uncertainties are identified and resolutions proposed. b) Feasibility of Approach. The proposal will be evaluated to determine if there is an acceptable level of confidence provided to the Government with respect to the Offeror's methods and approach in successfully meeting the requirements in a timely manner. c) Realistic. The evaluation will also consider if the allocated hours and labor categories being proposed in the Offeror's response to Task Order 0001 are realistic. This is a technical evaluation. The Task Order 0001 will not be considered in the evaluation of the offeror's price. d) Phase in Plan. The Offeror's Phase in plan will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror has an acceptable Phase in plan. To be acceptable, the Offeror's Phase in Plan will be evaluated to determine if the Offeror's proposal seamlessly phases in all functional activities within the timeframe allotted.

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 33 OF 52 PAGES

Factor 4: Past Performance The Government may utilize the Federal Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), data submitted by the Offeror as part of the Past Performance Proposal, and any other information available to determine the quality and relevance of the Offeror's past performance. Each proposal will be evaluated to the extent to which the Offeror has demonstrated an ability and willingness to perform: 1) A quality product or service (i.e. the conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship); 2) Timeliness of the contract with regard to completion of contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules and administrative requirements (e.g., effort that contributes to or affects the schedule variance); 3) Acceptable cost control with regard to the Offeror's effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract cost; 4) Good business relationships with regard to the timeliness, completeness and quality of problem identification and resolution, Offeror's history of reasonable and cooperative behavior, customer satisfaction, timely award and management of subcontracts, and whether the contractor met their small/small disadvantaged and women owned business participation goals; and 5) Management of personnel with regard to demonstration of a commitment to the management of personnel with regard to the Offeror's performance in selecting, retaining, supporting, and replacing when necessary, personnel. The Government will only consider relevant past performance data of the Offeror and its major subcontractors. A major subcontractor is defined as those providing twenty percent (20%) of total dollar threshold AND/OR twenty-five percent (25%) of total man-hour effort. Subcontractors not meeting the definition of a "major subcontractor" will not be evaluated. To be considered relevant, the Offeror must demonstrate past execution of similar contracts in terms of complexity, technology, magnitude of effort, schedule, and scope. Additionally, the performance must have occurred during the last five (5) years. Offerors shall be evaluated on an Acceptable/Unacceptable basis. In the case of an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available or so sparse that no meaningful past performance rating can be reasonably assigned, the Offeror may not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance (see FAR 15.305(a)(2)(iv), Past Performance Evaluation). Therefore, the Offeror shall be determined to have unknown past performance. In the context of acceptability/unacceptability, "unknown" shall be considered "acceptable". Should the Government discover adverse past performance information to which the Offeror(s) had not had a prior opportunity to respond, the Contracting Officer will conduct communications if deemed appropriate. PRICE PROPOSAL Proposals determined to meet or exceed the acceptability standards for the non-price evaluation factors then will be evaluated for the lowest price. Price reasonableness will be determined through price analysis in accordance with FAR 15.402. The Government will utilize a comparison of proposed prices received in response to the solicitation. Normally, adequate price competition establishes price reasonableness (see FAR 15.4031(c)(1)). In addition the Government may utilize a comparison of previously proposed prices and previous Government historical and commercial contract prices with current proposed prices for the same or similar items, if both the validity of the comparison and the reasonableness of the previous price(s) can be established. Award will be based on the lowest priced proposal that meets or exceeds the acceptability standards for the non-price factors. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (End of Provision)

Representations and Certifications

52.212-3 -- Offeror Representations and Certifications -- Commercial Items (Aug 2013), Alternate I (April 2011) An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 34 OF 52 PAGES

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation," as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 35 OF 52 PAGES

"Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 36 OF 52 PAGES

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAMwebsite.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 37 OF 52 PAGES

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 38 OF 52 PAGES

(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either--

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 39 OF 52 PAGES

(A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 40 OF 52 PAGES

(ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act ­ Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary]

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 41 OF 52 PAGES

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 42 OF 52 PAGES

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary]

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 43 OF 52 PAGES

(4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 44 OF 52 PAGES

end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 45 OF 52 PAGES

appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly--
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 46 OF 52 PAGES

(1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [_] Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 47 OF 52 PAGES

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [_] TIN:_____________________. [_] TIN has been applied for. [_] TIN is not required because: [_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government; (4) Type of organization. [_] Sole proprietorship; [_] Partnership; [_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 48 OF 52 PAGES

[_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [_] Foreign government; [_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [_] Other ____________________. (5) Common parent. [_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent: [_] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________________________ TIN ______________________________________ (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 49 OF 52 PAGES

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

Alternate I (Apr 2011). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(12) to the basic provision: (12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory or the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 50 OF 52 PAGES

(End of Provision) 52.209-7 ­ Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceeding at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). "Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [_] has [_] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 51 OF 52 PAGES

(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the System for Award Management database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision)

252.225-7031 Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel (Jun 2005) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- (1) "Foreign person" means any person (including any individual, partnership, corporation, or other form of association) other than a United States person. (2) "United States" means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, outlying areas, and the outer Continental Shelf as defined in 43 U.S.C. 1331. (3) "United States person" is defined in 50 U.S.C. App. 2415(2) and means-- (i) Any United States resident or national (other than an individual resident outside the United States who is employed by other than a United States person); (ii) Any domestic concern (including any permanent domestic establishment of any foreign concern); and (iii) Any foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent foreign establishment) of any domestic concern that is controlled in fact by such domestic concern. (b) Certification. If the offeror is a foreign person, the offeror certifies, by submission of an offer, that it-- (1) Does not comply with the Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel; and (2) Is not taking or knowingly agreeing to take any action, with respect to the Secondary Boycott of Israel by Arab countries, which 50 U.S.C. App. 2407(a) prohibits a United States person from taking.
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED: SP3300-14-R-0001

PAGE 52 OF 52 PAGES

(End of provision)

