<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FPharm-Tox.ProposalIntent.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FPharm-Tox.ProposalIntent.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>PROPOSAL INTENT RESPONSE FORM
RFP No: NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR RFP Title: Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacololgy-Toxicology Core Laboratory- Renewal Please review the Request for Proposal (RFP). Furnish the information requested below and return this page to the Contracting Officer/Contract Specialist identified on Section A-Solicitation/Contract Form by the following date: May 28, 2011 Your expression of intent is not binding but will greatly assist us in planning for proposal evaluation. Choose one of the following Options: Do intend to submit a proposal Do Not intend to submit a proposal If you are not responding to this RFP, please provide your reason(s):

Please provide the following contact information: Name (First, Middle Initial, Last): Title: Organization: E-mail:

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) February 22, 2011 Page 1 STATEMENT OF WORK I. BACKGROUND AND HISTORY
a. Background: Though great strides have been made in the field of gene transfer, the

translation of gene transfer research from the bench to the clinic remains an arduous task requiring diverse areas of expertise. Expertise is needed in virology, vectorology, immunology, pharmacology, toxicology, animal model development and testing, regulatory science, clinical trials science, and medical expertise in specific disease areas, ranging from very common to very rare diseases. Over the years since the inception of gene transfer, a better understanding of the immunology and structural biology of vectors has emerged. Delivery systems with viral vector systems and non-viral vector systems continue to evolve, and in recent years a series of novel vectors and new viral serotypes have shown promise in preclinical studies. Many diseases may benefit from gene transfer, including monogenic genetic diseases and acquired conditions, such as cystic fibrosis, hemophilia, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, certain malignancies and immunodeficiencies, peripheral and cardiovascular diseases, and others. Given the advances in the development of new gene delivery mechanisms, understanding of disease biology, and increase in the number of clinical trials conducted over the past several years, continued research in vector system development and clinical applications is critical to advancing the gene transfer field into the realm of medical practice. Gene transfer still holds promise for providing treatment options for millions of patients who are affected by challenging diseases.
b. History: In June 2005 the NHLBI convened an expert Working Group to better

understand the impediments to clinical progress in gene therapy and to advise the NHLBI how to best direct its limited resources to facilitate translational research in the field of gene therapy. The NHLBI responded to these recommendations by establishing the NHLBI Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) in March 2007. The GTRP consists of a Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC) and four Core Laboratories. The CCC is the linchpin of the GTRP and it is the only component of the GTRP whose work spans across all of the Cores and the NHLBI. The Pharmacology/Toxicology Core laboratory (PTC) works very closely with Investigators who request services to conduct pharmacology and toxicology studies on gene transfer agents being developed for clinical use. The PTC provides pharmacology and toxicology studies in small and large animal models. The PTC assists investigators with pharmacology/toxicology study design, participates with the investigator on pre-pre IND and pre-IND meetings with the FDA, conducts studies under Good Laboratory Practice Guidelines, performs clinical pathology and histopathology evaluations, conducts statistical analyses and prepares final reports for inclusion in IND submissions. Fulfilling the various service requests requires

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) February 22, 2011 Page 2 extensive interactions with all parties involved. Therefore, it is critical that the PTC have demonstrated experience in the conduct of complex research programs and knowledge of regulatory processes for animal testing as well as human gene therapy clinical trials. II. OBJECTIVES The objective of the NHLBI Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) renewal is to continue supporting the translation of basic research in gene therapy to clinical application in the areas of heart, lung, and blood diseases. The GTRP renewal will continue to provide resources in the areas of preclinical and clinical-grade vector production in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), and in the conduct of pharmacology/toxicology studies. In addition, the GTRP renewal will provide funds and regulatory assistance to investigators wishing to conduct gene therapy clinical trials. The GTRP renewal will consist of the following five components: 1) a clinical coordinating center that will oversee and coordinate the logistics of the core laboratories and provide regulatory and funding assistance for clinical trials; 2) a preclinical-grade vector production core laboratory (PCL); 3) a clinical-grade vector production core laboratory for adeno-associated virus (AAV); 4) a clinical-grade vector production core laboratory for lentivirus (LCL); and 5) a pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory (PTCL). The primary objective of the pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory is to conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) in small and/or large animals, and applicable Federal and State regulations, for use by NHLBI-funded investigators. III. SCOPE

The pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory is to conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors in accordance with GLP in small and/or large animals, and applicable Federal and State regulations, for use by NHLBIfunded investigators. The PTCL will 1) participate in the Steering Committee (SC), and subcommittees as necessary, and attend SC meetings and participate in teleconferences, 2) provide and maintain a Manual of Procedures (MOP), 3) develop, in collaboration with the SC, a customer satisfaction survey for investigators to evaluate the quality and acceptability of the product and timeliness of the service provided, 4) develop, in collaboration with the Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC), maintain and update a secure and password protected web site page and provide updates to the CCC as needed, 5) conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) in small and/or large animals, and applicable Federal and State regulations, for use by NHLBI-funded investigators, 6) maintain an established facility to support rodent, non-human primate (NHP), and large animal pharmacology/toxicology and biodistribution studies 6) adhere to the treatment of animals in accordance with IACUC (Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee) guidelines, 7) monitor facilities to ensure quality control of pharmacology/toxicology studies and

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) February 22, 2011 Page 3 that a regulatory framework is established to ensure consistent data quality. Develop plans to facilitate rapid communication of adverse toxicological results to the CCC and NHLBI and maintain and make available for review, as necessary, records of monitoring activities, and 8) prepare materials for and participate in site visits to the contractor's facilities and ensure that upto-date versions of all required certifications, inspections, and assurances are available for review during site visits. IV. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND TASKS

a. Independently, and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the Statement of Work set forth herein. b. The Contractor shall deliver the items specified in the Statement of Work and in ARTICLE C.2 to the destinations indicated in ARTICLE F.1. c. Specifically, the Contractor shall: 1. Within the first 21 calendar days, develop, finalize, and implement a transition plan with a timetable of costs to smoothly transition the operations of the GTRP Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory, should the existing GTRP Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory be replaced. This may include, but is not limited to the following: strategy and plans to complete transfer of all pharmacology/toxicology studies that have not been started; strategy and plans to complete transfer of all pharmacology/toxicology studies that have been completed; and plans for establishing communications with the existing or new GTRP CCC, vector core laboratories, NHLBI program members, Steering Committee members, program collaborators and colleagues. The transition plan shall be initiated upon contract award, with completion within 90 calendar days of contract award. 2. The Principal Investigator shall participate as a member of the GTRP Steering Committee (SC), and subcommittees as necessary, which will provide overall guidance for the GTRP. The Principal Investigator shall also participate in conference calls and attend SC meetings. 3. Provide and maintain a Manual of Procedures (MOP) describing methodologies to be employed and any new methodologies as they are developed. This MOP shall conform to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) guidelines and include procedures for gene therapy pharmacological/toxicological studies in both large and small animals. Provide copies of the MOP, and any amendments thereto, as described in ARTICLE C.2. 4. Update, in collaboration with the SC, a customer satisfaction survey for investigators to evaluate the quality and acceptability of the product and timeliness of the service provided.

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) February 22, 2011 Page 4 5. Conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) in small and/or large animals, and applicable Federal, State, and local regulations for use by NHLBI-funded investigators. Provide, in accordance with the MOP, written reports of the results of completed pharmacological/toxicological studies. 6. Employ and maintain state-of-the-art pharmacology and toxicology assays. This may require the contractor to develop or refine such technologies. 7. Maintain an established facility to support rodent, non-human primate (NHP), and large animal pharmacology/toxicology and biodistribution studies. 8. Adhere to the treatment of animals in accordance with IACUC (Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee) guidelines. 9. Evaluate and report to the CCC the feasibility of and approximate time required to fulfill each pharmacological/toxicological request. 10. Maintain, in a secure and confidential manner, an electronic database of all orders made for pharmacological and/or toxicological studies, including the name of the requesting investigator, the grant number (if applicable), the name of the project and the vector studied, the procedures adopted for toxicology studies, information on quality control and quality assurance methods, information on the vector used, the lot number, and all data pertinent to the pharmacological and/or toxicological study. These records shall be complete, accurate, legible, well-organized, and comprehensive. Submit data as defined and called for in the MOP. 11. Provide reports as described in ARTICLE C.2. Make available, for site visits, documents and data to support these reports. 12. Monitor facilities to ensure quality control of pharmacological/toxicological studies and that a regulatory framework is established to ensure consistent data quality. Develop plans to facilitate rapid communication of adverse toxicological results to the CCC and NHLBI. Maintain and make available for review, as necessary, records of monitoring activities. 13. Maintain the web site page by providing updated information to the CCC for posting on the GTRP web site. 14. Provide a customer satisfaction survey to each investigator, upon completing toxicological testing. 15. Participate as a member of the GTRP SC as described in Item1 and, as necessary, in teleconferences and meetings with the investigator requesting the toxicological study, NHLBI staff, and the FDA.

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) February 22, 2011 Page 5

16. Prepare materials for and participate in site visits by NHLBI staff and outside experts to the contractor's facilities. Ensure that up-to-date versions of all required certifications, inspections, and assurances are available for review during site visits and for cause audits by NHLBI and FDA.

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Reporting Requirements and Deliveries February 22, 2011

V.

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND DELIVERIES

In addition to those reports required by other terms of the contract, the contractor shall prepare and submit the following reports in the manner stated below and in accordance with the Statement of Work. 1. Transition Plan: Within the first 21 calendar days, develop, finalize, and implement a transition plan with a timetable of costs to smoothly transition the operations of the GTRP Preclinical Vector Production Core Laboratory, should the existing GTRP Preclinical Vector Production Core Laboratory be replaced. This may include, but is not limited to the following: strategy and plans to complete transfer of all preclinical studies that have not been started; strategy and plans to complete transfer of all preclinical studies that have been completed; and plans for establishing communications with the existing or new GTRP CCC, vector core laboratories, NHLBI program members, Steering Committee members, program collaborators and colleagues. The transition plan shall be initiated upon contract award, with completion within 90 calendar days of contract award. 2. Comprehensive Program Summary and Timetable; Within the first 45 calendar days, the Contractor shall be responsible for developing and submitting a master spreadsheet and Gantt chart summarizing the key proposed activities and deliverables (including but not limited to those enumerated below) with timelines for the entire program using a separate chart for each year funded. 3. Manual of Procedures (MOP) The Contractor shall be responsible for augmenting and maintaining the existing manual of procedures containing all SOPs and policies governing the GTRP. This includes providing a description of all operations of the CCC, as well as any additions or revisions of procedures as necessary. 4. Pharmacology/Toxicology Information related to the methodologies of preclinical vector pharmacological and toxicology studies and biodistribution shall be provided to research investigators for whom specific requests have been filled. 5. Technical and Business Transition Plan Within 12 months of the contract's expiration date, the Contractor shall begin working with the NHLBI COTR to develop a transition plan for either the phase out of the GTRP at the end of the contract period or for transition of the contract's activities to another contractor should the GTRP be renewed. A draft of this transition plan is due to the NHLBI COTR within six (6) months of the contract's expiration date and the final transition plan shall be submitted upon the contract's expiration date. The transition plan is considered a contract deliverable and its due date(s) are set forth in Section F of this contract.

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Reporting Requirements and Deliveries February 22, 2011

6. Website The contractor shall provide the CCC feedback on how to improve utility and access to the GTRP's public and private website. 7. Monthly Technical Narrative This narrative shall document and summarize all work results for the period covered on the monthly invoice. This narrative shall be attached to the copy of the monthly invoice sent to the Contracting Officer. Specifically, the report shall include the contract number, title, period of performance being reported, Contractor's name and address, telephone and facsimile numbers, and date of submission. In addition, it shall include a. A description of the work performed during the reporting. b. A brief overview of any problems that occurred during the current reporting period and their resolution or status. c. A summary of activities planned for the next reporting period. d. A list of projects approved and initiated. A description of dissemination accomplished (e.g., abstracts submitted or approved, presentations by GTRP investigators) and a list of the manuscripts in preparation or submitted and publications resulting from the work of the Registry. 8. Semi-Annual Technical Progress Report The semi-annual technical reports, in a narrative form, shall be concise and informational. They shall include but not be limited to: a cover page which includes the contractor's name and address, the contract number, the name of the Principal Investigator; a description of overall progress, current problems which may impede performance, and proposed corrective actions; and activities planned for the next reporting period. Specific vector production information shall be in tabular format and include the following: the name of the requesting investigator, the grant number (if applicable), the name of the project and the vector provided, the procedures adopted for vector production, information on quality control and quality assurance methods, vector lot numbers, and date of vector release. The report shall also address administrative matters and staffing changes. A semi-annual technical report will not be due when the final report is due. 9. Abstracts and Manuscripts Copies of manuscripts (published or unpublished) derived from research under the contract and copies of all abstracts, manuscripts, preprints, and publications that resulted from work conducted or any protocol or method developed specifically under this contract during the performance period. 10. Final Technical Report This report shall include a summation of the work performed and results achieved for the entire contract period of performance. The report shall be prepared in the format described for "Monthly Technical Progress Reports" and be in sufficient detail to describe

Gene Therapy Resource Program Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Reporting Requirements and Deliveries February 22, 2011

comprehensively the results achieved. The report shall also include a plan for future longterm support of the GTRP preclinical vector core laboratory through additional funding sources other than the Government. A draft Final Report is due within ten (10) months of the contract's expiration date for Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer's Technical Representative's review and approval to proceed with the Final Report. The Final Report shall be submitted on or before the last day of the contract performance period and shall be in sufficient detail to serve as a reference document. 11. Information System Security and Physical Access Reporting Requirements: The contractor shall submit security information reports required by other terms of the contract 12. Section 508 Annual Report The contractor shall submit an annual Section 508 report in accordance with the schedule set forth in the ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY Article in SECTION H of this contract. The Section 508 Report Template and Instructions for completing the report are available at: http://www.hhs.gov/od under "Vendor Information and Documents." 13. Multiple Principal Investigators Leadership Plan The Contractor shall submit a revised/updated Leadership Plan in the event of a change in any of the Principal Investigators named in the Key Personnel Article in SECTION G of this contract. The revised plan is subject to review and approval by the Contracting Officer. 14. Invention Reporting Requirement and Annual Invention Report The Contractor shall submit an Annual Invention Report as required by FAR CLAUSE 52.227-11 including, but not limited to, the invention disclosure report, the confirmatory license, and the government support certification. The annual utilization report shall be submitted in accordance with Articles in SECTION F and H of the contract. 15. Summary of Salient Results The Contractor will be required to prepare and submit, with the final report, a summary (not to exceed 200 words) of salient results achieved during the performance of the contract. 16. Monthly Invoices Contractor shall submit monthly invoices as detailed in SECTION G of the contract. 17. Subcontracting Reports The Contract shall submit Individual Subcontract Reports (ISR) and a Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) in accordance with Articles in SECTION F and H.

Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Page 1
SPECIFIC/ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS, ASSUMPTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS a. General Description of the Required Objectives This program is designed to facilitate clinical gene therapy studies in heart, lung, and blood diseases by offering the specialized services of five national core laboratories (a clinical coordinating center, a preclinical-grade vector production core laboratory, a clinical-grade adeno-associated (AAV) vector production core laboratory, a clinical-grade lentivirus vector production core laboratory, and a pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory) at no cost to NHLBI-funded investigators. The core laboratories will be charged with implementing the rapid, safe, and equitable transition of basic research ideas to clinical practice, as well as supplying clinical-grade products produced in a manner that is compliant with all regulatory requirements. The clinical coordinating center (CCC) will coordinate the organizational and regulatory aspects of the program. In addition, the program will also provide funding for Phase I/II gene transfer trials that are within 6-12 months of initial patient enrollment. Examples of clinical Phase I/II trials in gene therapy that may be supported under this program include, but are not limited to, protocols focusing on: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Cardiovascular diseases such as ischemic heart disease, restenosis, heart failure, and peripheral arterial disease Blood disorders such as hemophilia, thalassemia, and sickle cell disease Lung diseases such as alpha-1 anti-trypsin deficiency and cystic fibrosis Immunodeficiencies such as adenosine deaminase deficiency and X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X-SCID).

The organizational structure of the GTRP is as follows: ˇ Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC) - Oversee and coordinate the logistics of the Core Laboratories, provide regulatory assistance to investigators registered with the GTRP, and to administer the funding support for clinical trials in the GTRP. Preclinical Vector Production Core Laboratory- Produce large-scale, preclinical-grade vectors for use by NHLBI-funded investigators. AAV Vector Production Core Laboratory - Produce scalable clinical-grade adeno-associated viruses for use by NHLBI-funded investigators. Lentivirus Vector Production Core Laboratory - Produce scalable clinical-grade lentiviral viruses for use by NHLBI-funded investigators. Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory - Conduct pharmacological/ toxicological studies using gene therapy vectors for NHLBI-funded investigators. GTRP Steering Committee (SC) - The SC will be comprised of representatives from the NHLBI, the CCC, and each of the Core Laboratories. Scientific Review Board (SRB) - The SRB will be comprised of experts in the design and production of viral and non-viral vectors and in the field of clinical gene therapy. The SRB will review clinical protocols and make recommendations to the NHLBI. The SRB does not meet in person. The written reviews by the SRB members are submitted to the CCC and discussions with the SC are via teleconference. NHLBI-appointed Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) - The DSMB will be comprised of individuals with relevant scientific expertise, including experts in the field of clinical gene therapy. The DSMB will monitor GTRP-funded clinical trials.

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

ˇ

Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Page 2
ˇ NHLBI Gene Therapy Group (GTG) - The Group will be comprised of Program Officers from each division of the NHLBI and members of the Contracts Operations Branch.

NHLBI Program and Contracts Offices - NHLBI Program and Contracts officials will be responsible for the administration and monitoring of the program. These officials will participate in and monitor the activities of the program. b. Background Information In June 2005 the NHLBI convened an expert Working Group to better understand the impediments to clinical progress in gene therapy and to advise the NHLBI how to best direct its limited resources to facilitate translational research in the field of gene therapy. The NHLBI responded to these recommendations by establishing the NHLBI Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) in March 2007. The GTRP consists of a Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC) and four Core Laboratories. The pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory is to conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors for NHLBI-funded investigators who are actively involved in gene transfer studies using large and small animal models. Fulfilling the various service requests requires extensive interactions with all parties involved and the process can take months to years, particularly those aspects related to preclinical toxicology testing and biodistribtuon studies. Therefore, it is critical that the Pharmacology/toxicology Core Laboratory have demonstrated experience in the management of complex research programs and human clinical trials. c. Detailed Description of Technical Objectives The primary objective of the pharmacology/toxicology core laboratory is to conduct preclinical vector toxicology testing and biodistribution studies using all types of gene therapy vectors for NHLBI-funded investigators who are actively involved in gene transfer studies using large and small animal models. d. Offers must address the following points in their proposal: 1. Provide the names, degrees, training, qualifications, experience, role in project, and effort for each individual named in the offeror's proposal and proposed subcontract(s). 2. Describe institutional continuing education/training requirements of the offeror and proposed subcontractor(s) Provide evidence of an established toxicology core infrastructure, including experience in animal models of disease and unique delivery methods specific to the product type and the disease. Identify specific studies that have been performed, how quality control was ensured and monitored, and the costs associated with performance of each study. This information shall also be provided for all proposed subcontractor(s). Identify the types of assays that can be performed, the animal models that are available and the number of studies that can be done on a monthly basis (rate of turn-over). Provide a detailed description of proposed monitoring plans for toxicology testing to be conducted, from initiation to completion, including regulatory requirements that would be applicable.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Page 3
7. Propose detailed plans for the preparation and submission of reports about pharmacological/toxicological studies conducted. Describe the offeror's abilities to interface with other databases. Propose plans to maintain a registry/database of all requests made for toxicological studies. Plans should identify the name of the requesting investigator, name of the project, name of the vector, procedures adopted for vector testing, information on quality control, quality assurance methods, vector lot numbers, and date testing is completed. Describe the offeror's and proposed subcontractor(s)' experience working with other organizations and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Describe plans to interact with the CCC, NHLBI, the investigators, and the FDA if needed. Provide a detailed description of laboratory facilities available to the offeror and proposed subcontractor(s) to conduct the Statement of Work. Describe in detail the administrative structure of the proposed Core Laboratory, including the offeror and proposed subcontractor(s). Describe in detail the offeror's and proposed subcontractor(s)' plans to secure and dispose of animals. Describe practices, equipment, and facilities that ensure biosafety of all personnel directly or indirectly involved in conducting pharmacological/toxicological studies. Provide evidence of institutional commitment for this program. Provide evidence of commitment to adhere to the Data, Data Rights, Patents, and Copyrights provisions spelled out in item (13) above. Provide any other information needed to allow reviewers to judge the capability of the offeror to accomplish the Statement of Work.

8. 9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

e. Reference Material This acquisition is a renewal of the existing GTRP program which is comprised of one clinical coordinating center and four core laboratories. Information about this program can be found at http://www.gtrp.org/. Additionally, the Government recommends review of Request for Proposals for the GTRP Clinical Coordinating Center, Preclinical Vector Production Core Lab, Adeno-associated Virus VectorProduction Core Lab, and Lentivirus Vector Production Core Lab which are located in FedBizOpps . Failure of offeror to examine the reference materials prior to proposal preparation and submission will be at the offeror's risk.

Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Page 4
BUDGET ASSUMPTIONS f. Pharmacology/Toxicology Studies The Government considers that the uniform study cost assumptions matrix below will be required for successful completion of the program objectives. The uniform study cost assumptions are for information only and are not to be considered restrictive for proposal purposes. The assumptions are formulated by NHLBI staff utilizing recent experience. UNIFORM STUDY COST ASSUMPTIONS MATRIX Year Study Type Study Duration 60 Days 60 Days 60 Days 60 Days 70 Days 60 Days 112 Days 60 Days 60 Days 112 Days 70 Days 60 Days 70 Days 60 Days 60 Days 60 Days Number of Studies 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Number and Type of Animals 144/Mice 144/Mice 144/Mice 144/Mice 38/Pigs 32/Mice 12/Baboons 32/Mice 144/Mice 12/Baboons 38/Pigs 144/Mice 38/Pigs 32/Mice 144/Mice 144/Mice Subtotal Travel ODC Other Core Costs Subtotal Other Fees TOTAL Est. Study Costs

Year-1

Toxicology Toxicology Toxicology Toxicology Biodistribution Biodistribution Biodistribution Biodistribution Toxicology Biodistribution Biodistribution Toxicology Biodistribution Biodistribution Toxicology Toxicology

Year-2

Year-3

Year-4

Year-5

$ $ $ $ $ $

Gene Therapy Resource Program (GTRP) Pharmacology/Toxicology Core Laboratory ­ Renewal RFP #NHLBI-CSB-HV-2012-06-NIR (formerly RFP NHLBI-HV-12-06) Page 5
g. Travel The Government considers that the travel assumptions identified below will be required for successful completion of the program objectives. The travel assumptions are for information only and are not to be considered restrictive for proposal purposes. The assumptions are formulated by NHLBI staff utilizing recent experience. TRAVEL ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE PHARM-TOX CORE LAB STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS Estimated Number of Meetings Estimated Number of Days Per Meeting Estimated Number of Lab Staff SITE VISITS Estimated Number of Site Visits Estimated Number of Days Per Meeting Estimated Number of Lab Staff SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS Estimated Number of Trips Estimated Number of Days Per Meeting Estimated Number of Lab Staff Year 1 2 2 2 Year 1 2 1 2 Year 1 2 3 2 Year 2 2 2 2 Year 2 2 1 2 Year 2 2 3 2 Year 3 2 2 2 Year 3 1 1 2 Year 3 2 3 2 Year 4 2 2 2 Year 4 1 1 2 Year 4 2 3 2 Year 5 2 2 2 Year 5 1 1 2 Year 5 2 3 2

1. Govt. Rates verified at: http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100000 2. Per Diem should be based on the Govt. Rate from Chicago, IL to Bethesda, MD (Washington, DC metropolitan area). 3. 4. Ground Transportation costs are for taxis to and from airports. 3% escalation calculated through the period of performance.

h. Level of Effort The Government considers that the personnel and estimated levels of effort identified below will be required for successful completion of the program objectives. Effort is shown as a percentage of full time equivalent (FTE) labor. The personnel and levels of effort listed are for information only and are not to be considered restrictive for proposal purposes. The levels are formulated by NHLBI staff utilizing recent experience. EMPLOYEE POSITION Principal Investigator Co-Investigator Co-Investigator DNA Extraction Technician Office Administrator Senior Programmer ----------------------- Total *PERCENT EFFORT 20% 50% 50% 100% 25% 5% 250%

*The specified levels are equivalents for each 12 month period over the 5-year planned contract period.

