
                                                                   Attachment A

                                                         National Rural Technology Summit

                                                           Virtual Rural Conference 2.0

                                                             Statement of Objectives



   I. Background



The Office of Communications and Outreach, Rural Outreach office oversees day-to-day communication and outreach to rural schools, colleges,
other stakeholders, and the media covering issues related to education in rural areas.  President Obama created the new White House Rural
Council by executive order in June 2011 to work across government to strengthen rural communities and promote economic growth.

In July 2010, this initiative brought together more than 150 educators and technology experts from 26 states at the National Museum of the
American Indian in Washington DC.  To broaden the audience, the 2012 conference will be held as a virtual conference.

The virtual conference will provide classroom teachers and educators with the opportunity to hear and watch presentations on topics of interest
to rural students.  This may include PowerPoint presentations, lectures and on-line demonstrations/workshops, both of which allow interactive
questions and answers from the online participants.  The presentation(s) shall be accessible via an Internet connection.  The slides will be
visible during the online portion of the event, and require no extra action on the part of the participant. 

The virtual conference will be held on a specific date at a specific time. Tentatively, it is planned for January 25, 2012 from 8:30-5:00 p.m.
ET.  However, this date and time are subject to change, but this event will not occur prior to January 25, 2012.

  II. Scope:

The purpose of the virtual rural conference is to provide a venue for schools located in rural areas to access informative presentations from
the U.S. Department of Education.  The virtual conference should be easy to access – regardless of computer, connection or experience with
online tools.

The Goals for the Virtual Conference 2.0 are:

    • Outreach to the rural community
    • Networking opportunities among conference participants
    • Discussion(s) of promising practices
    • Increased access/exposure to educational opportunities




 III. Objectives:

   1. Question, Comment and Answer ability via a live chat box (also known as: Text Discussion Forums or File Posting Center).  This
      functionality shall be able to be turned on and off.


   2. Ability to provide twittering and social media to the attendees.  Preferably, these features are integrated into the proposed software
      and/or tool.  Tweeting will play a role in this conference.


   3. These sessions feature an online meeting environment that allows presenters and participants to communicate using:



      • VOIP (a computer microphone is required)
      • Text based chat.
      • Sharing of presentation materials in the form of or adapted from the following:  Power Point, websites, document sharing (usually a
        pdf), and pre-recorded audio and video files.


   4. The contractor shall supply a virtual classroom platform to host live webcasts for up to 1500 concurrent participants. The conference day
      will consist of up to 12 distinct live webcasts (most likely no more than 10), which might include a brief introduction of the online
      conference and opening remarks, followed by a series of interactive panel discussions, a keynote or featured speaker, and a free-form
      conference wrap-up. During each presentation the contractor shall act as the representative of the web audience by asking questions from
      web participants, and summarizing the online discussion for the live audience.


   5. Ability to handle hundreds of log-in locations and multiple live feeds (max 12 sites).  As well as, interaction between log-in locations
      and with the lead conference site.

   6. Bidder shall address how their proposed software/tool can handle those that may still have low broad-band width or dial-up connections to
      the Internet.

   7. Recording of the live virtual conference with closed captioning that is made available on-line within 7-10 business days after the
      conference.  Contractor shall propose either contractor site or ED site.  Contractor shall provide registered participants an email
      following the live event with a link to the recording along with access to any materials from the sessions.

   8. The conference shall have closed captioning.

   9. The contractor shall host the site during the period of performance and offer pricing options for hosting/facilitating the conference in
      whole or in part.  The site must be 508 compliant.

  10. Dedicated system administrator and any other key personnel essential to ensuring the success of the conference available on the day of the
      event.

  11. Contractor must submit a communication plan that outlines who is involved in the project, the frequently of communication and any
      limitations or additional charges if communication required outside of the communication plan scope.

  12. Contractor shall submit an implementation plan that outlines the full implementation of the conference to included but not limited to
      kickoff, design, execution and close out.


      Optional Services



   1. Live closed captioning from meeting start to finish, with the exception of breaks and lunch.

   2. Editing services for on line recording of conference with menuing/categorizing of the event.





       Place of Performance



Performance will take place primarily at the contractor’s site.  However, the main event will take place at the Smithsonian virtual conference
center and/or the U.S. Department of Education’s Virtual Conference Center. Both locations are in Washington, DC and within .2 miles of each
other.  All required computers and A/V will provided. When required, performance will take place at remote event locations, based on the
contractor’s performance work statement and proposed solutions.





      Period of Performance





The Period of Performance shall be from contract sign date through 10 business days after conference.







.

