<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTFSACFP14Q0023.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTFSACFP14Q0023.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>31 July 2014

Subject: Request for Quote (RFQ) TFSACFP14Q0023, for Customized Programming Deliverables in support of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service) on behalf of the CFPB is hereby soliciting in regards to the subject requirement for Customized Programming Deliverables. The Government will award one firm-fixed-price Purchase Order as a result of the PWS titled "Customized Programming Deliverables". Please review the enclosures and provide your quote via email to psb3@bpd.treas.gov by not later than 1400 (2:00pm ET) 18 August 2014. Please include "Quote for RFQ TFSACFP14Q0023, Attn. SGandee/CGropp" in the subject line. Please adhere to RFQ ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERS ­ COMMERCIAL ITEMS. Any questions regarding this RFQ shall be submitted in writing to psb3@bpd.treas.gov by 1400 (2:00pm ET) 11 August 2014. Please include "Questions for RFQ TFSACFP14Q0023, Attn. SGandee/CGropp" in the subject line. Any questions and/or comments received are not considered proprietary and will not be protected by the Government. You may also contact Ms. Sherri Gandee, Contract Specialist, by phone at 304-480-7293, or the undersigned by phone at 304-480-8559. Sincerely,

CAREY N. GROPP Contracting Officer Enclosures

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

CFP-40100-14-0013
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1

34
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

TFSACFP14Q0023
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

07/31/2014

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

SHERRI GANDEE
CODE

08/18/2014 1400 ET FSA-SGANDEE
10. THIS ACQUISITION IS UNRESTRICTED OR

9. ISSUED BY

X SET ASIDE:

100.00

% FOR:

Bureau of the Fiscal Service Division of Procurement Avery 5F 200 Third Street Attn: S. Gandee Parkersburg WV 26101
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

X SMALL BUSINESS
HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS (WOSB) ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM NAICS: EDWOSB 8(A)

541511 $25.5

SIZE STANDARD:

13b. RATING 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

CFPB

16. ADMINISTERED BY

FSA-PARKERSBURG

CFPB 1275 First St. NE, Washington DC 20002

Bureau of the Fiscal Service Division of Procurement Administration Branch Avery 5F 200 Third Street Parkersburg WV 26101
FACILITY CODE 18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

The Bureau of the Fiscal Service is soliciting on behalf of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) for Customized Programming Deliverables. The period of performance is one (1) Base Period of 6 months and one (1) 6-month Option Period. 0001 Base Period of 6 months. Continued ...
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. X 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN 1 COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDENDA

X ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

CAREY N. GROPP
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

34
24. AMOUNT

Programming Deliverables in accordance with the Performance Work Statement

0002

6-month Option Period. Programming Deliverables in accordance with the Performance Work Statement

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 2/2012) BACK

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this solicitation must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. In accordance with the above, in addition to the work requirements specified in the Statement of Work, contractors/vendors must ensure that all EIT that they provide either: (1) meets the technical provisions of the Section 508 Access Board Standards applicable to a given procurement (see below); or (2) uses designs or technologies as alternatives to those prescribed in the specified technical provisions, provided they result in substantially equivalent or greater access to and use of a product for people with disabilities. The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this contract: X 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems. 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. 1194.23 Telecommunications products. 1194.24 Video and multimedia products. 1194.25 Self-contained, closed products. 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers. 1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria 1194.41 Information, Documentation and Support

The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future.

SOFTWARE FEDERAL DESKTOP CORE CONFIGURATION (FDCC) All software which is designed to run on Windows Vista or XP desktops must function without modification to the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) security configurations developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Software and hardware products that are designed to operate in environments other than the FDCC desktop must have a standard configuration guide published on the NIST website, or the vendor must supply a recommended configuration guide for all configurable security settings.

52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2014) (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights -(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C.3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 71,Contract Disputes. Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is

3

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include -(i) Name and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- System for Award Management, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment. (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt Payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-- (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the-- (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and

4

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(D) Contractor point of contact. (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. (6) Interest. (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in 41 U.S.C. 7109, which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period at fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if-- (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2). (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (A) The date fixed under this contract. (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on-- (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.

5

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. chapter 37, Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards; 41 U.S.C. chapter 87, Kickbacks; 41 U.S.C. 4712 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. chapter 21 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) The schedule of supplies/services. (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts, and Unauthorized Obligations paragraphs of this clause. (3) The clause at 52.212-5. (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. (6) Other paragraphs of this clause. (7) The Standard Form 1449. (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. (9) The specification. (t) System for Award Management (SAM). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the SAM database, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the SAM database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the SAM database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the SAM does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2) (i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to: (A) Change the name in the SAM database; (B) Comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12 of the FAR; (C) Agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the SAM information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the SAM record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see FAR Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the SAM database. Information provided to the Contractor's SAM record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via SAM accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. (u) Unauthorized Obligations. (1) Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End Use License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an AntiDeficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (i) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government.

6

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an "I agree" click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., "click-wrap" or "browse-wrap" agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (iii) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures.

ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2014)

DTAR 1052.232-7003 ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS (AUG 2012) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- (1) "Payment request" means a bill, voucher, invoice, or request for contract financing payment with associated supporting documentation. The payment request must comply with the requirements identified in FAR 32.905(b), "Payment documentation and process" and the applicable Payment clause included in this contract. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests electronically using the Invoice Processing Platform (IPP). Information regarding IPP is available on the Internet at www.ipp.gov. Assistance with enrollment can be obtained by contacting the IPP Production Helpdesk via email ippgroup@bos.frb.org or phone (866) 973-3131. (c) The Contractor may submit payment requests using other than IPP only when the Contracting Officer authorizes alternate procedures in writing. (d) If alternate payment procedures are authorized, the Contractor shall include a copy of the Contracting Officer's written authorization with each payment request.

PAYMENT AND INVOICE QUESTIONS For payment and invoice questions, go to https://www.ipp.gov or contact the Accounting Services Division at (304) 480-8000 option 7 or via email at AccountsPayable@bpd.treas.gov.

OVERPAYMENTS In accordance with 52.212-4 section (i) 5 Overpayments: Accounts Receivable Conversion of Check Payments to electronic funds transfer (EFT): If the Contractor sends the Government a check to remedy duplicate contract financing or an overpayment by the government, it will be converted into an EFT. This means the Government will copy the check and use the account information on it to electronically debit the Contractor's account for the amount of the check. The debit from the Contractor's account will usually occur within 24 hours and will be shown on the regular account statement. The Contractor will not receive the original check back. The Government shall destroy the Contractor's original check, but will keep a copy of it. If the EFT cannot be processed for technical reasons, the Contractor authorizes the Government to process the copy in place of the original check.

MARKING OF SHIPMENTS The Contractor shall ensure the contract number is clearly visible on all shipping/service documents, containers, and invoices.

7

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
1052.201-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY (JUN 2012) (a) The COR(s) are named on the award form SF-1449. Should a change to the COR(s) be necessary in the future, they will be named on the modification SF-30. (b) Performance of work under this contract is subject to the technical direction of the COR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term "technical direction" includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, and/or fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily. (c) Technical direction must be within the scope of the contract specification(s)/work statement. The COR does not have authority to issue technical direction that: (1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the contract specification(s)/work statement; (2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled "Changes"; (3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance; (4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract; (5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or (6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees. (d) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COR must confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (e) The Contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COR. If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the COR or the designated representative falls within the limitations of (c) above, the contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day. (f) Failure of the Contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled "Disputes."

1052.210-70 CONTRACTOR PUBLICITY (AUG 2011) The Contractor, or any entity or representative acting on behalf of the Contractor, shall not refer to the equipment or services furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any news release or commercial advertising, or in connection with any news release or commercial advertising, without first obtaining explicit written consent to do so from the Contracting Officer. Should any reference to such equipment or services appear in any news release or commercial advertising issued by or on behalf of the Contractor without the required consent, the Government shall consider institution of all remedies available under applicable law, including 31 U.S.C. 333, and this contract. Further, any violation of this provision may be considered during the evaluation of past performance in future competitively negotiated acquisitions. PUBLIC RELEASE OF CONTRACT CFPB is dedicated to transparency and plans on making the award document available to the public after award. If selected, your firm will agree to electronically submit to the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) and copy CFPBprocurement@cfpb.gov mailbox, within ten (10) business days from the date the order is awarded (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays), a .pdf file of the fully executed order with all proposed necessary redactions, including redactions of any trade secrets or any commercial or financial information that it believes to be privileged or confidential business information, for the purpose of public disclosure at the sole discretion of CFPB. The Contractor agrees to provide a detailed written statement specifying the basis for each of its proposed redactions, including the applicable exemption under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. § 552, and, in the case of FOIA Exemption 4, 5 U.S.C. § 552(b)(4), shall demonstrate why the information is considered to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by the Contractor in response to this requirement may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA. CFPB will carefully consider all proposed redactions and associated grounds for nondisclosure prior to making a final determination as to what information in the fully executed order may be properly withheld. INSPECTION OF BOOKS & RECORDS This clause is applicable to any Contract regardless of the amount or the manner into which it was entered. The Contractor agrees that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (including its authorized representative and/or its Office of Inspector General) (collectively, "CFPB") shall, until expiration of three (3) years after final payment under this Contract, have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers, and records

8

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
of the Contractor involving transactions related to this Contract. The Contractor further agrees to include in all its subcontracts hereunder a provision to the effect that the subcontractor agrees that the CFPB shall have the same rights to the subcontractor books, documents, papers and records as specified above. The periods of access and examination described above, for records which relate to (1) litigation or the settlement of claims arising out of the performance of this Contract, or (2) costs and expenses of this Contract as to which exception has been taken by the CFPB, shall continue until such litigation, claims, or exceptions have been disposed of, and CFPB has specified in writing that exception is no longer being taken. CFPB'S OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL (OIG) This clause is applicable to any Contract regardless of the amount or the manner into which it was entered. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Contract shall limit the OIG's authority under the Inspector General Act to examine the Contractor's books, documents, papers, etc. The Contractor and any subcontractor shall make notification (including posting notices in each of their respective facilities) to all Contractor and subcontractor employees working on this Contract of the OIG's hot line telephone number, 1-800-827-3340, and to report any suspected "waste, fraud, or abuse" transactions related to the performance of this Contract. 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within the final 30 days of each contract period; provided, that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 12 months. 52.227-14 -- Rights in Data ­ General (May 2014) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-"Computer database" or "database" means a collection of recorded information in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. "Computer software"-- (1) Means (i) Computer programs that comprise a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations; and (ii) Recorded information comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulas, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. (2) Does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. "Computer software documentation" means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. "Data" means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to contract administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information.

9

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
"Form, fit, and function data" means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, and data identifying source, size, configuration, mating, and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements. For computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithms, processes, formulas, and flow charts of the software. "Limited rights" means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of subparagraph (g)(2) if included in this clause. "Limited rights data" means data, other than computer software, that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged, to the extent that such data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, including minor modifications. "Restricted computer software" means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and is confidential or privileged; or is copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of the computer software. "Restricted rights," as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (g) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software. "Technical data" means recorded information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer databases and computer software documentation). This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. The term includes recorded information of a scientific or technical nature that is included in computer databases (See 41 U.S.C. 116). "Unlimited rights" means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. (b) Allocation of rights. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government shall have unlimited rights in-- (i) Data first produced in the performance of this contract; (ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this contract; (iii) Data delivered under this contract (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this contract; and (iv) All other data delivered under this contract unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause. (2) The Contractor shall have the right to-- (i) Assert copyright in data first produced in the performance of this contract to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; (ii) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause; (iii) Substantiate use of, add or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and (iv) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause.

10

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(c) Copyright-- (1) Data first produced in the performance of this contract. (i) Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor may establish, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, claim to copyright in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract and published in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings or similar works. The prior, express written permission of the Contracting Officer is required to assert copyright in all other data first produced in the performance of this contract. (ii) When authorized to assert copyright to the data, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number). (iii) For data other than computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. For computer software, the Contractor grants to the Government and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in such copyrighted computer software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly (but not to distribute copies to the public) by or on behalf of the Government. (2) Data not first produced in the performance of this contract. The Contractor shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this contract any data not first produced in the performance of this contract unless the Contractor-- (i) Identifies the data; and (ii) Grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in subparagraph (c)(1) of this clause or; if such data are restricted computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in subparagraph (g)(4) of this clause (if included in this contract) or as otherwise provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this contract. (3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government will not remove any authorized copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and will include such notices on all reproductions of the data. (d) Release, publication and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except-- (1) As prohibited by Federal law or regulation (e.g., export control or national security laws or regulations); (2) As expressly set forth in this contract; or (3) If the Contractor receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this contract which contain restrictive markings, the Contractor shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless otherwise specifically authorized otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer. (e) Unauthorized marking of data. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this contract concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this contract are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(3) or (g)(4) of this clause and use of the notices is not authorized by this clause, or if such data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this contract, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Contractor, or cancel or ignore the markings. However, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 4703, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings. (i) The Contracting Officer will make written inquiry to the Contractor affording the Contractor 60 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings; (ii) If the Contractor fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 60-day period (or a longer time approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the

11

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions. (iii) If the Contractor provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in subdivision (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer will consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be canceled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Contractor will be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer will furnish the Contractor a written determination, which determination shall become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Contractor files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officer's decision. The Government shall continue to abide by the markings under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer's determination becoming final (in which instance the Government will thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed. (2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in subparagraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder. (3) Except to the extent the Government's action occurs as the result of final disposition of the matter by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Contractor is not precluded by paragraph (e) of this clause from brining a claim, in accordance with the Disputes clause of this contract, that may arise as a result of the Government removing or ignoring authorized markings on data delivered under this contract. (f) Omitted or incorrect markings. (1) Data delivered to the Government without any restrictive markings shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights. The Government is not liable for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. (2) If the unmarked data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Contractor may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer in writing for good cause shown) after delivery of such data, permission to have authorized notices placed on qualifying data at the Contractor's expense, and the Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Contractor-- (i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied; (ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent; (iii) Establishes that the use of the proposed notice is authorized; and (iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice. (3) If data has been marked with an incorrect notice, the Contracting Officer may-- (i) Permit correction of the notice at the Contractor's expense if the Contractor identifies the data and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized, or (ii) Correct any incorrect notices. (g) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. (1) The Contractor may withhold from delivery qualifying limited rights data or restricted computer software that are not data identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause. As a condition to this withholding, the Contractor shall-- (i) Identify the data being withheld; and (ii) Furnish form, fit, and function data instead.

12

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(2) Limited rights data that are formatted as a computer database for delivery to the Government shall be treated as limited rights data and not restricted computer software. (3) [Reserved] (h) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractor's obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and shall not proceed with the subcontract award without authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. (i) Relationship to patents or other rights. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government. 52.232-39 UNENFORCEABILITY OF UNAUTHORIZED OBLIGATIONS (JUN 2013) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (1) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (2) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an "I agree" click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., "click-wrap" or "browse-wrap" agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (3) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulation and procedures.

52.232-40 PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENTS TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEC 2013) (a) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the Contractor shall make accelerated payments to its small business subcontractors under this contract, to the maximum extent practicable and prior to when such payment is otherwise required under the applicable contract or subcontract, after receipt of a proper invoice and all other required documentation from the small business subcontractor. (b) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act. (c) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts with small business concerns, including subcontracts with small business concerns for the acquisition of commercial items.

CONTRACT TERM The period of performance for this procurement is a Base Period of 6 months and one 6-month Option Period.

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUN 2014) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ____ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Public Laws 108-77, 108-78 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)).

13

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the contracting officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: ___ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 4704 and 10 U.S.C. 2402). ___ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (41 U.S.C. 3509). ___ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub L. 111-5) (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). _X__ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (5) [Reserved] ___ (6) 52.204-14, Service Contract Reporting Requirements (Jan 2014) (Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Div. C). ___ (7) 52.204-15, Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts (Jan 2014) (Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Div. C). ___ (8) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Aug 2013) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). ___ (9) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jul 2013) (41 U.S.C. 2313). ___ (10) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (May 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Public Law 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). ___ (11) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (12) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer)(15 U.S.C. 657a). ___ (13) [Reserved] _X__ (14) (i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Nov 2011). ___ (iii) Alternate II (Nov 2011). ___ (15) (i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. ___ (16) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2014) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). ___ (17) (i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637 (d)(4)). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. ___ (iv) Alternate III (July 2010) of 52.219-9. ___ (18) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)). ___ (19) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)). ___ (20) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). ___ (21) (i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). ___ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. ___ (22) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Jul 2013) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (23) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). ___ (24) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (Nov 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f). _X__ (25) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). ___ (26) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). ___ (27) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)). _X__ (28) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _X__ (29) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jan 2014) (E.O. 13126). _X__ (30) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _X__ (31) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). ___ (32) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

14

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
_X__ (33) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). ___ (34) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). ___ (35) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). ___ (36) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) ___ (37) (i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) ___ (38) (i) 52.223-13, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Imaging Equipment (Jun 2014) + (E.O.s 13423 and 13514 ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-13. ___ (39) (i) 52.223-14, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Television (Jun 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-14. ___ (40) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b). ___ (41) (i) 52.223-16, Acquisition of EPEATŽ -Registered Personal Computer Products (Jun 2014) (E.O.s 13423 and 13514). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Jun 2014) of 52.223-16. _X__ (42) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging while Driving (Aug 2011). ___ (43) 52.225-1, Buy American--Supplies (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83). ___ (44) (i) 52.225-3, Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 11243). ___ (ii) Alternate I (May 2014) of 52.225-3. ___ (iii) Alternate II (May 2014) of 52.225-3. ___ (iv) Alternate III (May 2014) of 52.225-3. ___ (45) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Nov 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _X__ (46) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). ___ (47) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2303 Note). ___ (48) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (49) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). ___ (50) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 4505), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). ___ (51) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 4505, 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _X__ (52) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-- System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (53) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than System for Award Management (Jul 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (54) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (May 2014) (31 U.S.C. 3332). ___ (55) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). ___ (56) (i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). ___ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: ___ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67.). ___ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 2014) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards -- Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (May 2014) (29 U.S.C.206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67).

15

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
___ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards -- Price Adjustment (May 2014) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). ___ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (May 2014) (E.O. 13495). ___ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (May 2014) (42 U.S.C. 1792). ___ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sep 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (41 U.S.C. 3509). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (May 2014) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (May 2014) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards (May 2014), (41 U.S.C. chapter 67). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67.) (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (May 2014) (41 U.S.C. chapter 67) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Aug 2013). (xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note). (xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (May 2014) (42 U.S.C. 1792). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S. Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

16

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations.

52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: https://www.acquisition.gov/far/

CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, AND ATTACHMENTS DOCUMENT/EXHIBIT/ATTACHMENT TITLE Attachment A ­ IPP Waiver Form

17

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS) CUSTOMIZED PROGRAMMING DELIVERABLES

1.0

BACKGROUND

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Act"), which created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and authorize the CFPB to engage in research and general market monitoring activities to assess trends and emerging risks in consumer financial markets. 1 Section 1013(b)(1) of the Act establishes the Office of Research and assigns to it the responsibility of researching, analyzing, and reporting on topics relating to the Bureau's mission, including developments in markets for consumer financial products and services, consumer awareness, and consumer behavior. "Data Points" is an occasional series of publications from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)'s Office of Research. To date, there have been two publications within the series: ˇ In March 2014, a short report on payday lending was published: http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201403_cfpb_report_payday-lending.pdf In May 2014, a short report on medical debt and credit scores was published: http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201405_cfpb_report_data-point_medical-debt-creditscores.pdf

ˇ

These publications are intended to further the Bureau's objective of providing an evidence-based perspective on consumer financial markets, consumer behavior, and regulations to inform the public discourse. 2.0 OBJECTIVE

The Office of Research within the CFPB requires a contractor to assist with the formatting of future "Data Points," as well as other public publications. CFPB requires a contractor who is an expert Customized Programming Deliverables programmer, with experience developing these types of files for academic researchers and journals. 3.0 SCOPE

The tasks required include: ˇ Developing a LaTeX class file cfpb.cls that produces a document resembling the "Data Points" series documents listed above. This may require working closely with the CFPB design team in order ensure that the document is consistent with other CFPB public documents. Develop a cfpb.bst bibliography style file that pairs with the class file, and that may have some minor customizations (or a few customizations in the cfpb.sty file that configure to a natbib.bst, if that is more effective). Develop a Beamer template that conforms to CFPB style guidelines.

ˇ

ˇ

DFA Section 1013(b)(1) mandates that the Bureau have research staff whose responsibilities include "[r]esearching, analyzing, and reporting on (A) developments in markets for consumer financial products or services, including market areas of alternative consumer financial products or services with high growth rates and areas of risk to consumers; (B) access to fair and affordable credit for traditionally underserved communities; (C) consumer awareness, understanding, and use of disclosures and communications regarding consumer financial products or services; (D) consumer awareness and understanding of costs, risks, and benefits of consumer financial products or services; (E) consumer behavior with respect to consumer financial products or services, including performance on mortgage loans; and (F) experiences of traditionally underserved consumers, including unbanked and underbanked consumers." 18

1

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
ˇ Develop scripts that automate some of the workflow associated with production and reviewing of "Data Points" publications.

In addition to the above tasks, optional tasks include: ˇ Develop tools that permit the easy generation of an html version of a paper generated using the cfpb suite of tools (using t4ht, htlatex, or other tools). Develop tools that will produce a complete self-contained portable archive of the document, including figures, bibliography, etc, which can be shared with outside parties. Advise CFPB on tools to manage a master bibliography of CFPB research output. This task could be managed using a master cfpb-or.bib file, to be managed by JabRef, Zotero, or some other combination of tools. In addition, scripts could be useful to extract a subset of the master file containing papers by any particular author. Advise CFPB on table and graph design and automation for "Data Points" reports or other public documents.

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

CFPB anticipates most or all of these products will be open source and available on the web. 4.0 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

The period of performance is one (1) Base Period of 6 months and one (1) 6-month Option Period. 5.0 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE

The work to be performed will not be performed at government facilities, but off-site at a contractor's or other facility. The contractor will have no access to the CFPB site or systems. 6.0 DELIVERABLES

All deliverables shall be submitted to the COR in an electronic format or through an on-line application. 6.1 Redacted copy of the fully executed contract within ten (10) business days in accordance with the PublicRelease Contract Version Requirement. 6.2 Monthly Status Reports ­ The Contractor shall electronically submit Monthly Status Reports to the COR on the second Friday of each month by 5:00 pm ET. The Status Reports shall contain the below required information for the previous months and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Work Accomplishments; Hours Worked; Issues and Resolutions; Planned activities for the following week; and, Any issues/risks that may impact the quality or planned milestones.

The monthly report shall also contain a financial overview including invoiced and remaining amounts to date. 6.3 The Contractor shall deliver to the COR, by the end of the contract period of performance, all deliverables identified in Section 3.0, as well as the applicable code.

7.0

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

19

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
Inspection and acceptance of all work performed will be conducted by the COR. The Government will conduct a review of the deliverables for completeness, correctness, and compliance with requirements. 8.0 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor recognizes that, in performing this contract, the Contractor may obtain access to non-public confidential information, Personally Identifiable Information (PII), or proprietary information. The Contractor agrees that it, its employees, its subcontractors, and its subcontract employees will not disclose to any third party, or otherwise use, any information it obtains or prepares in the course of performance under the contract without first receiving written permission from the CFPB. Information acquired by the Contractor pursuant to the performance of the contract shall not be disclosed by the Contractor to others outside the approved Contractor team members and the oversight staff without prior approval by the COR. Under the Contract Disputes Act, any unauthorized disclosure of non-public confidential information, Personally Identifiable Information (PII), or proprietary information is considered a violation of a material term of this contract. 9.0 KEY PERSONNEL AND SUBSTITUTION OF KEY PERSONNEL

The Contractor shall provide qualified and skilled personnel to perform the services required under this contract. Key personnel will be identified at time of award. CFPB reserves the right to request replacement of any personnel who are deemed incompetent, careless, unsuitable or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued use under this contract is deemed contrary to the best interests of the Government. The COR will give notice, in writing, to the contractor POC of such need for substitution. Within twentyfour (24) hours of receiving notification, the contractor POC shall provide resumes of proposed personnel replacement to the COR. The contractor shall demonstrate the qualifications of prospective substitute personnel are equal and/or comparable to those of the personnel being replaced. The COR reserves the right to disapprove the proposed substitutes and negotiate with the contractor for an acceptable replacement. The COR will notify the contractor POC, in writing, if the contractor provided replacement personnel is approved. The COR will notify the Contracting Officer (CO) of the approval, and the CO will issue a modification to formally replace the personnel. The contractor shall obtain approval from the COR and CO when the contractor wishes to substitute personnel. The contractor POC shall notify the COR and CO in writing stating the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitution of the personnel. The contractor POC shall provide the COR with resumes of proposed replacement personnel for review and approval at least ten (10) business days prior to replacement, when possible. If the COR approves the replacement, the COR will notify the CO, and the CO will issue a modification to formally replace the personnel. No diversion in personnel shall be made by the Contractor without the written consent of the COR or CO. 10.0 DATA RIGHTS

The Government has unlimited rights to all documents/material produced under this contract. All documents and materials, to include the source codes of any software, produced under this contract shall be Government owned and are the property of the Government with all rights and privileges of ownership/copyright belonging exclusively to the Government. These documents and materials may not be used or sold by the contractor without written permission from the Contracting Officer. All materials supplied to the Government shall be the sole property of the Government and may not be used for any other purpose. This right does not abrogate any other Government rights. 11.0 CONTRACT TYPE

The pricing structure will be Firm-Fixed-Price.

20

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables

52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2014) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show -(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 60 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2) (i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-- (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.

21

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1) (i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to-GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100 470 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925) Facsimile (202 619-8978). (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites-(i) ASSIST (https://assist.dla.mil/online/start/ ). (ii) Quick Search (http://quicksearch.dla.mil/). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-- (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard ( https://assist.dla.mil/wizard/index.cfm ); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4 Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 191115094, Telephone (215) 697/2197, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) database. The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional SAM records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and

22

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
Bradstreet office for DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) System for Award Management. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the SAM database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the SAM database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the SAM database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether sourceselection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2014)

NOTICE TO FIRMS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT In accordance with far 9.405, offers are not solicited from firms debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment. Ineligible firms shall consider this an informational copy only.

QUOTE INSTRUCTIONS A quote is being requested in response to the solicitation requirements. Offeror shall submit one electronic copy, separating price from non-price components, by the due date. The Offeror assumes full responsibility for ensuring that offers are received at the place as delineated herein and by the due date and time specified in Block 8 of Standard Form (SF) 1449. Offeror shall submit quotes electronically to psb3@bpd.treas.gov. The electronic quote submission shall contain the subject line "Quote for RFQ TFSACFP14Q0023, Attn. SGandee, CGropp".
The Offeror assumes full responsibility for ensuring all electronic materials and attachments submitted are formatted in accordance with the Bureau of the Fiscal Service Security Requirements. The following file extensions are not allowable and application materials/data submitted with these extensions cannot be considered: .bat, .cmd, .com, .exe, .pif, .rar, .scr, .vbs, .hta, .cpl, html, mhtml, and .zip files The Government does not allow 3rd party messaging systems/secure mail. Microsoft Office non-macro enabled compatible documents and .PDF documents are acceptable. If the Offeror determines that other formats are necessary, it is the Offeror's responsibility to verify with Fiscal Service that those formats are acceptable. Proposal materials with unacceptable or unreadable formats may be found non-responsive.

VOLUME I (PRICE COMPONENTS), SHALL INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING: ˇ ˇ Signed and completed SF 1449 and all amendments issued (if any). The signature must be of a company official authorized to contract on behalf of the Firm. Firm-fixed-price for Purchase Order to include applicable Proposed labor categories and associated labor rates, along with associated labor hours per category. Offerors shall propose and identify any and all discounts in its price quote.

23

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
ˇ Quote Expiration. Offeror shall verify the quote does not expire less than 60 calendar days from offer receipt.

VOLUME II (NON-PRICE COMPONENTS), SHALL INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING:

FACTOR 1 ­KEY PERSONNEL The Offeror shall describe in detail its key personnel experience and qualifications related directly to each task identified in the PWS, including experience with Customized Programming Deliverables and experience producing products similar to the ones described in the PWS. The Offeror shall clearly demonstrate the experience and qualifications that will ensure quality of services/deliverables; a resource(s) that is highly experienced and has the technical qualifications capable of meeting and exceeding the PWS requirements; and past experience that relates directly to the scope identified in the PWS. The Offeror shall provide a resume for each of the proposed key personnel. The resume(s) shall indicate the proposed job category in which the individual will perform. Each resume shall also contain the following information: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Company: Current company affiliation and location Job Title: Current and proposed Job Title Education: Degrees, School, Major and Year of Graduation Experience/Qualifications: Chronological description of experience and training as related to this requirement and the role in which the individual is proposed.

INVOICE PROCESSING PLATFORM (IPP) WAIVER
If unable to use IPP for submitting payment requests, Offerors are required to complete the attached waiver form (see IPP Waiver Attachment) and submit with proposal. Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) and Microsoft Word are the only acceptable electronic invoicing formats. Invoices must contain the information required in FAR 52.212-4(g). On the waiver form the Offeror shall indicate the reason(s) and the duration for which it is requesting the waiver. If the Offeror's current invoicing system is not compatible with IPP, the Offeror shall provide contact information for the person who can work with the IPP administrator to develop an interface. The waiver duration will be for no more than 6 months at which time the Contractor must be fully compliant with IPP requirements, or apply for a follow on waiver with the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer will review the waiver request and either approve or deny the request. If approved, and the Offeror receives award, the Contractor shall submit a copy of the approved waiver along with each emailed invoice. If a copy of the waiver is not attached, the invoice will be rejected.

52.212-2 EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: Key Personnel (Technical) and Price (Non-Technical). Key Personnel being more important than price. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.

24

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

ADDENDUM TO 52.212-2, EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999) The Contracting Officer may consider award to other than the lowest price Offeror or other than the highest technically rated Offeror when in the best interest of the Government. The Government will conduct the best value analysis using the identified factors. In performing its best value analysis, the Government will compare any relevant differences among the evaluated quotes to determine which quote offers the overall best value. This effort will include comparing the strengths, weaknesses and risks associated with each offer. The Government reserves the right to make award based upon initial offers received, without discussions or negotiations of such offers. Therefore, the initial quote should contain the Offeror's best terms from a technical and price standpoint. In addition, it is important that each offer fully address the requirements stated in this solicitation, including any exceptions thereto or deviations there from. The Government also reserves the right to make a competitive range determination and conduct discussions only with the Offerors included in the competitive range VOLUME I (PRICE COMPONENTS): A price analysis will be conducted in order make a best value decision.

VOLUME II (NON-PRICE COMPONENTS): FACTOR 1 ­KEY PERSONNEL The Government will evaluate the Offeror's selection of Key Personnel. The Government will evaluate the Offeror on the experience and qualifications of the proposed key personnel relative to each task identified in the PWS, including experience with Customized Programming Deliverables and experience producing products similar to the ones described in the PWS. The Government will evaluate the expertise and skills of proposed key personnel in successfully managing and delivering each task identified in the PWS. The Government will assign a higher rating to Offerors that demonstrate that the proposed key personnel are experts in the area of Customized Programming Deliverables through their extensive experience with similar projects, have an extensive body of work, aligned to the PWS tasks, that includes repeated engagements wherein the key personnel have been responsible for successful projects that incorporate and exercise the skills and expertise necessary and crucial for project success. 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990) Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government's best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

Treasury AB # 14-01

REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW (MAY 2014)

(1) The offeror does [ ] does not [ ] have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.

25

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(2) The offeror, has [ ] preceding 24 months. has not [ ] been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MAY 2014) An offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov . If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation," as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

26

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more servicedisabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is serviceconnected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans(as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAMwebsite. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ____________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

27

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, [_] is not a womenowned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [_] is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It [_] is, [_] is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration , and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It [_] has, [_] has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint

28

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has, [_] has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It [_] has, [_] has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -(i) It [_] has developed and has on file, [_] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It [_] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American ­ Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end

29

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements-- Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian

30

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American statute. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) [_] Are, [_] are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) [_] Are, [_] are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [_] Have, [_] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights.

31

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product: Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [_] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [_] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) [_] In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) [_] Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Labor Standards. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (1) [_] Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (2) [_] Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror [_] does [_] does not certify that--

32

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Labor Standards wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer identification number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). [_] TIN:_____________________. [_] TIN has been applied for. [_] TIN is not required because: [_] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; [_] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government; (4) Type of organization. [_] Sole proprietorship; [_] Partnership; [_] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); [_] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); [_] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); [_] Foreign government; [_] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; [_] Other ____________________. (5) Common parent. [_] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent: [_] Name and TIN of common parent: Name ____________________________________ TIN ______________________________________ (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran.

33

RFQ - Customized Programming Deliverables
(1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; (ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and (iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50(U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf). (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of Provision) Alternate I (May 2014). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(12) to the basic provision: (12) (Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: ____ Black American. ___ Hispanic American. ___ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ___ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, Republic of Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ___ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ___ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. Alternate II (Jan2012). As prescribed in 12.301(b)(2), add the following paragraph (c)(10)(iii) to the basic provision: (iii) Address. The offeror represents that its address [_]is, [_] is not in a region for which a small disadvantaged business procurement mechanism is authorized and its address has not changed since its certification as a small disadvantaged business concern or submission of its application for certification. The list of authorized small disadvantaged business procurement mechanisms and regions is posted at http://www.acquisition.gov/References/sdbadjustments.htm. The offeror shall use the list in effect on the date of this solicitation. "Address," as used in this provision, means the address of the offeror as listed on the Small Business Administration's register of small disadvantaged business concerns or the address on the completed application that the concern has submitted to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier in accordance with 13 CFR part 124, subpart B. For joint ventures, "address" refers to the address of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture.

34

Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Administrative Resource Center IPP Waiver Form
In accordance with DTAR 1052.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests, the Contractor shall submit payment requests using the Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) unless the Contracting Officer authorizes alternate procedures. The Contractor may submit a request to all the submission of invoices outside of the IPP as part of its proposal. The Contractor shall indicate the reason(s) outlined below and the duration for which it is requesting the waiver. If the contractor's current invoicing system is not compatible with IPP, the Contractor shall provide contact information for the person who can work with the IPP administrator to develop an interface. The approval of such waiver will have a duration of no more than 6 months. An individual (includes employees and sole proprietors) determines that the submission of invoices through IPP would impose a hardship due to either a physical or mental disability; a geographic, language, or literacy barrier, or a financial hardship. Please describe:

The political, financial or communications infrastructure of a foreign country does not support access to IPP for submitting invoices electronically. The contractor is in the process of transitioning to electronic submission of payment requests but needs additional time to complete such transition. Authorizations granted on this basis must specify a date by which the contractor will transition to electronic submission. The contractor is to provide a point of contact and IT point of contact to work with Government to transition to electronic submission of payments: Contractor Point of Contact Name: Email Address: Phone Number: IT Point of Contact Name: Email Address: Phone Number: Contractor Name: DUNS: Name of Person Submitting Waiver: Title: Email: Phone No.: Solicitation No. Date Submitted: --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------For Government Use Only Approved Disapproved Additional Guidance

Duration of Waiver: Contract/Order No.: Contracting Officer:

