<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FDTFH61-12-R-00011.RFP.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FDTFH61-12-R-00011.RFP.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER 3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 5. DATE ISSUED

RATING

PAGE

OF PAGES

1 | 46
6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NO.

DTFH61-12-R-00011
7. ISSUED BY CODE

SEALED BID (IFB) NEGOTIATED (RFP)
HAAM-20

March 6, 2012

6501-12001

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE Mail Stop E65-101, HAAM-20F Washington, DC 20590
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder"

SOLICITATION
Sealed offers in original and electronic email copy (Angela.Jones@dot.gov) for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in 7. until 3:15 pm Washington, D.C. Time, Monday, April 9, 2012. 9. CAUTION - LATE Submission, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

10. FOR INFORMATION CALL:
() SEC.

A. NAME

B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS)
AREA CODE NUMBER EXT.

Angela A. Jones

C. E-MAIL ADDRESSAngela.Jones@dot.gov

202
()

366-4255

11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
DESCRIPTION PAGE(S) SEC. DESCRIPTION PAGE(S)

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

PART I - THE SCHEDULE SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICE/COST DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1 2 3 5 5 6 7 13

X X X X X

PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES I CONTRACT CLAUSES PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH. J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS PART IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS K REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS L INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS M EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

25 30

31 37 46

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 10 CALENDAR DAYS 20 CALENDAR DAYS 30 CALENDAR DAYS CALENDAR DAYS 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT
(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8)

%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

%
AMENDMENT NO. DATE

%

14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS
(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents Numbered and dated):

15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR 15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER
AREA CODE NUMBER

CODE

FACILITY

16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print)

EXT.

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM ABOVE ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

17. SIGNATURE

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) ( ) 41 U.S.C. 253(c)( ) CODE

23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN
IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified)
25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

ITEM

24. ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 7)

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT -- Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice.

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION
Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 9-97)
Prescribed by GSA ­ FAR (48 CFR) 53.214

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 2 of 46

PART I
SECTION B - SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS The Contractor shall furnish all necessary facilities, materials, and personnel and shall perform all non-personal services necessary to operate a Recreational Trails Program (RTP) Database in accordance with the Statement of Work described in Section C, below. The maximum potential amount for all work under this Firm-Fixed-Price Service Contract, CLINS 0001 through 0013 is as delineated below:
CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER (CLIN) SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES / PERFORMANCE Develop a searchable Recreational Trails Program (RTP) database Operate, maintain, and update the RTP database QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE MAXIMUM POTENTIAL PRICE

1

0001 ­ Task 1 (Base Year) 0002 ­ Task 2 (Base Year) 0003 ­ Task 3 (Base Year) 0004 ­ Cost Reimbursable Travel (Base Year) 0005 ­ Task 2 (Option Year 1) 0006 ­ Task 3 (Option Year 1) 0007 ­ Cost Reimbursable Travel (Option Year 1) 0008 ­ Task 2 (Option Year 2) 0009 ­ Task 3 (Option Year 2) 0010 ­ Cost Reimbursable Travel (Option Year 2) 0011 ­ Task 2 (Option Year 3) 0012 ­ Task 3 (Option Year 3) 0013 ­ Cost Reimbursable Travel (Option Year 3) Grand Total

Lot (2 months) $ (Firm-Fixed Price) (Firm-Fixed Price)

$ Price) $ Price)

(Firm-Fixed

10

Month $ (Firm-Fixed

1 Annual Report -Travel associated with CLINs 0001 and 0003 Operate, maintain, and update the RTP database 12

Lot $ NTE $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) Month $ (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed

1 Annual Report -Travel associated with CLIN 0006 Operate, maintain, and update the RTP database 12

Lot $ NTE $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) Month $ (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed

1 Annual Report -Travel associated with CLIN 0009 Operate, maintain, and update the RTP database 12

Lot $ NTE $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) Month $ (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed

1 Annual Report -Travel associated with CLIN 0012 Total maximum potential price for all work under this contract ---

Lot $ NTE $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) ----$ $2,000 (Cost Reimbursable Not to Exceed Amount) (Firm-Fixed Price) $ Price) (Firm-Fixed

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 3 of 46

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF WORK C.1 Background The Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA's) Recreational Trails Program (RTP) provides funds to the States to develop and maintain recreational trails for motorized and nonmotorized use. In an effort to promote program transparency, FHWA seeks to track how States use RTP funds in a manner that provides sufficient information to the public without undue burden on State program administrators. Updating this database is important because nearly 20,000 RTP projects have been completed and there are more than 1,000 new RTP projects each year. FHWA's Web security requirements prevent providing the States sufficient access to keep the database updated. The existing RTP project database is www.funoutdoors.info/rtphome.html. However, this database is not adequate for the needs of FHWA, the States, or the public. C.2 Contract Objective The objective of the contract is to develop, operate, and update a searchable Recreational Trails Program (RTP) database to be available on a website, and to provide annual reports on RTP funding. C.3 Scope of Work The Contractor shall: ˇ Develop a searchable RTP database to be available on a website. The website and database shall include accurate and up-to-date RTP information, an RTP project list, and a project image library. ˇ Operate and update the RTP website. ˇ Reply to technical inquiries from the public. ˇ Develop an annual report based on the database and other program information. C.4 Delineation of Contractor Tasks Task 1: Develop a searchable Recreational Trails Program (RTP) database The Contractor shall develop a searchable Recreational Trails Program (RTP) database to be available on a website. The website and database shall include accurate and up-to-date RTP information, an RTP project list, and a project image library. As part of Task 1, the Contractor shall attend a kick-off meeting to be held either in Washington, DC or telephonically. If it is determined that an in-person kick-off meeting is warranted, the Contractor's travel, if non-local, shall be reimbursed at cost as part of CLIN 0004. The website shall contain, at a minimum: ˇ Access to [a] searchable database[s] with:

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 4 of 46

ˇ ˇ ˇ

- Accurate and up-to-date information related to the RTP, including links to appropriate Federal and State program websites. - A project list consisting of RTP projects for which funds have been obligated. - An image library with RTP project examples from all States covering all project types. Note: This means that among all project examples, not less than one per State, and among all project examples, not less than one per permissible use category. This does not necessarily require all categories from all States. - The database shall be updateable in cooperation with the FHWA and the States (see Notes below). A technical assistance section to assist the public on how to use the database. A technical assistance section directing the public to appropriate links to related resources. Advanced search capabilities with multiple search parameters.

The Contractor shall meet all Federal accessibility standards for websites. Notes: ˇ Examples of similar existing databases include the National Transportation Enhancements Clearinghouse website and database, (www.enhancements.org) and the National Center for Safe Routes to School website and database, (www.saferoutesinfo.org). The current RTP project database is www.funoutdoors.info/rtphome.html. The current database is not adequate for the needs of FHWA, the States, or the public. ˇ The definition of "State" means a State receiving an apportionment of RTP funds. At present, this consists of the 50 States and the District of Columbia, but could include Puerto Rico or other US territories if Puerto Rico or other US territories begin to receive RTP funds. ˇ The FHWA's RTP website, www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/rectrails/, is not part of this Contract. FHWA will continue to maintain that website. Task 2: Operate, maintain, and update the RTP database The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and update (continually, as necessary) the RTP database. This shall include responding to technical inquiries from the public on the use of the database. The Contractor shall respond via telephone or email to each inquiry within one business day of the inquiry. Task 3: Annual Report The Contractor shall develop and produce an annual report about RTP using information from the database, describing the status of how States used RTP funds in the previous Federal fiscal year, long term trends, and other relevant information. The Contractor shall also incorporate additional publically available or Government-provided, annually relevant information on the RTP into the report. In researching the report, the Contractor shall attend one national-level conference associated with the RTP during the base year, and each option year, if exercised. The Contractor's travel, if non-local, shall be reimbursed at cost.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 5 of 46

Notes: Sample reports are found at the following websites: ˇ RTP: www.funoutdoors.info/Draft_report_6-10-2010_2004-2009_v.2.pdf ˇ Transportation Enhancement Activities: www.enhancements.org/download/Spending_Report/TE_Spending_Report_FY10.pdf. ˇ Safe Routes to School Program: www.saferoutesinfo.org/resources/index.cfm. SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1 PACKAGING Preservation, packing, and packaging of items for shipment shall be in accordance with commercial practice and adequate for acceptance by common carrier for safe transportation at the most economical rates. D.2 SHIPMENT AND MARKING Shipment of deliverable items, other than reports, shall be as follows: Ship to: Federal Highway Administration Office of Planning, Environment, and Realty 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Mark for: (To be filled in at time of award.)

The Contractor shall mark each shipment with the company name, this Contract number, the item identification, quantity of items, and notice of partial or final delivery. D.3 F.O.B. POINT The f.o.b. point for all items, unless otherwise directed by the Government, shall be: Federal Highway Administration Office of Planning, Environment, and Realty 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 The f.o.b. point for reports of work is specified in Section F. All items shall be shipped f.o.b. destination. SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE All work hereunder shall be subject to review by the Government.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 6 of 46

52.252-2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This Contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: www.acquisition.gov/far

52.246-4

INSPECTION OF SERVICES ­ FIXED PRICE (AUG 1996) SECTION F - DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE

F.1 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE All work and services required shall be completed on or before 12 months after the effective date of the Contract. If the Government exercises the three one-year options, the total period of performance shall not exceed 48 months. F.2 DELIVERABLES All deliverables and a copy of the monthly reports (See Section G) under the Contract shall be delivered via email, with transmittal cover letter, to the following address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Planning, Environment, and Realty 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Attention: (to be filled in at award) Email: (to be filled in at award) The monthly reports and other items as specified shall be delivered to the Contract Administrator delivered via email, with transmittal cover letter, to the following address: Federal Highway Administration Office of Acquisition Management HAAM-20F, Mail Stop E65-101 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Attention: (to be filled in at award) Email: (to be filled in at award) F.4 52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) (a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order to the Contractor, require the Contractor to stop all, or any part, of the work called for by this contract for a period of 90 days

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 7 of 46

after the order is delivered to the Contractor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Within a period of 90 days after a stop-work is delivered to the Contractor, or within any extension of that period to which the parties shall have agreed, the Contracting Officer shall either-- (1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled or the period of the order or any extension thereof expires, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-- (1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to the adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that, if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon the claim submitted at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G.1 FUNDS AVAILABLE a. Currently, funds in the amount of $ contract is fully funded (Base Year). are obligated to this contract. The

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 8 of 46

b.

Should the Government elect to exercise any or all of its options under this contract, the amounts specified in Section B for that option period will be obligated subject to the availability of funds and by formal modification to the contract by the Contracting Officer.

G.2 PAYMENT ­ FIXED PRICE The Government will pay the Contractor the fixed unit prices specified in Section B, upon satisfactory completion of services during the period billed, including receipt of the deliverables listed below. Satisfactory completion shall be determined by the COR and the Contracting Officer. After FHWA's acceptance of the products and services delivered and upon the submission of proper invoices, the Government will pay the Contractor the prices stipulated in Section B. G.3 DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE
Deliverable Letter Describing Completion of Task 1 10 Monthly Progress Reports ­ Base Year Annual Report ­Base Year 12 Monthly Progress Reports ­ Option Year 1 Annual Report ­ Option Year 1 12 Monthly Progress Reports ­ Option Year 2 Annual Report ­ Option Year 2 12 Monthly Progress Reports ­ Option Year 3 Annual Report ­ Option Year 3 CLIN Description Contractor Notifies Government that Task 1 is complete See "Monthly Progress Reports" Section G See Task 3, Section C See "Monthly Progress Reports" Section G Due Date 60 days from effective date of Contract Each monthly progress report due 10 days after the conclusion of the month being reported 11 months from the effective date of the Contract Each monthly progress report due 10 days after the conclusion of the month being reported 11 months from the effective date of the first Option Year Each monthly progress report due 10 days after the conclusion of the month being reported 11 months from the effective date of the second Option Year Each monthly progress report due 10 days after the conclusion of the month being reported 11 months from the effective date of the third Option Year

0001

0002 0003

0005 ­if

0006­if exercised See Task 3, Section C See "Monthly Progress 0008­if exercised Reports" Section G 0009­if exercised See Task 3, Section C See "Monthly Progress 0011­if exercised Reports" Section G 0012­if exercised See Task 3, Section C

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 9 of 46

G.4 MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORTS Monthly progress reports shall be prepared in accordance with the above schedule. Monthly progress reports shall consist of the following: 1. Concise description of the work performed during the period under Task 2 (Section C). 2. Tabulated statistics on technical inquiries received, including: number of inquiries, length of time for response to inquiry, brief description of nature of inquiry, and description of resolution. 3. A description of problems encountered during the period, if any, and the proposed solution. G.5 INVOICES To be considered proper for payment, the first page of the invoice shall contain the following information: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Name and address of the Contractor. Invoice number and invoice date. Contract number and title. Amount billed by CLIN, current and cumulative. Total amount of billing. Cumulative total billed for all Contract work to date. Name, title, phone number, and mailing address of person to be contacted in the event of a defective invoice.

If the invoice includes charges pertaining to CLIN 0004, CLIN 0007, CLIN 0010, or CLIN 0013 (cost reimbursable travel), the following pages of the invoice shall include a detailed breakdown of any cost-reimbursable travel charged for under the invoice, and backup (copies of receipts). The backup shall be presented in a well-organized manner. Invoices may be submitted no more frequently than monthly (more than one CLIN may be billed on an invoice). Submit all invoices to one of the following invoice addresses: All invoices and required supporting documents shall be sent via e-mail to the following e-mail address: 9-AMC-AMZ-FHWA-Invoices@faa.gov. (a) Include the invoice as an attached PDF document (b) Include in the e-mail subject line the following: (i) "Invoice No. # (ii) Contract/Agreement Number (iii) Name of your Company/Organization." (iv) Attention: To be filled in at time of award Example: Invoice No. 35 ­ DTFH61-12-C-00001 ­ ABC Company ­ Attention: John Doe

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 10 of 46

If the invoice and supporting documents exceed 8 MB as an e-mail attachment, the Contractor must select one of the other submission options presented below: Invoices submitted via an overnight service must use the following physical address: MMAC FHWA/AMZ-150 6500 S. MacArthur Blvd Oklahoma City, OK 73169 Attention: To be filled in at time of award Express Delivery Point of Contact: April Grisham, 405 954-8269 Invoices may be submitted via regular U.S. Postal Service to the following address: Federal Highway Administration Markview Processing P.O. Box 268865 Oklahoma City OK 73126-8865 Attention: To be filled in at time of award All invoices, regardless of submission method, must identify the Contract Specialist as the invoicing point of contact. An invoice submitted to an address other than those identified above will be returned to the vendor as non-conforming. G.6 SUBCONTRACTS - ADVANCE NOTIFICATION AND CONSENT The requirements of FAR 44.2, CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACTS, have been fulfilled for the following subcontracts: [as negotiated] Any future change or revision to the Statement of Work or other applicable aspects of this Contract shall include the subcontract(s) only to the extent that performance of the subcontract(s) is directly affected by the change or revision. G.7 TRAVEL AND PER DIEM Travel will be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and the current Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) which are promulgated at 41 CFR, Chapters 300 to 304 and viewable at www.gsa.gov/federaltravelregulation. The FTR implements statutory requirements and Executive branch policies for travel by federal civilian employees and others authorized to travel at government expense. The following issues are summarized below to ensure a thorough and consistent understanding: Travel reimbursed under this contract shall be based on the most economical form of transportation available only. Any costs deemed unreasonable will be reduced to a reasonable amount. Improper costs will be disallowed and deducted from the invoice. Any exceptions shall be fully justified and documented with the invoice.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 11 of 46

Travel requirements under this Contract shall be met using the most economical form of transportation available. If economy class transportation is not available, the request for payment voucher must be submitted with justification for use of higher class travel indicating dates, times, and flight numbers. All travel shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates, unless authorized by the Contracting Officer. Fee is not authorized for travel and per diem expenses. G.8 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) (a) The Contracting Officer is the only individual authorized to enter into or terminate this contract, modify any term or condition of this contract, waive any requirement of this contract, or accept nonconforming work delivered under this contract. (b) The Contracting Officer will designate a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) at time of contract award. The COR's responsibilities will include technical monitoring of the contractor's performance and inspecting and accepting deliveries under the contract. The COR will be appointed in writing, at which time ALL of the responsibilities of the COR will be detailed, and a copy of the appointment memorandum will be furnished to the Contractor. Any changes to the COR delegation will be made in writing, either by changes to the existing memorandum, or by issuance of a new appointment memorandum. Copies of any changes will be provided to the Contractor. (c) The COR is not authorized to perform, formally or informally, any of the following actions: (1) Promise, award, agree to award, or execute any contract, contract modification, or notice of intent that changes or may change this contract; (2) Waive or agree to any modification of the delivery schedule; (3) Make any final decision on any contract matter subject to the Disputes Clause; 4) Terminate, for any reason, the Contractor's right to proceed, or issue any order causing the Contractor to stop work; (5) Obligate in any way, the payment of money by the Government. (d) The Contractor shall comply with the written or oral direction of the Contracting Officer or authorized representative(s) acting within the scope and authority of the appointment memorandum. The Contractor need not proceed with direction that it considers to have been issued without proper authority. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, with as much detail as possible, when the COR has taken an action or has issued direction (written or oral) that the Contractor considers to exceed the COR's appointment, within 3 days of the occurrence. Unless otherwise provided in this contract, the Contractor assumes all costs, risks, liabilities, and consequences of performing any work it is directed to perform that falls within any of the categories defined in paragraph (c) prior to receipt of the Contracting Officer's response issued under paragraph (e) of this clause.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 12 of 46

(e) The Contracting Officer shall respond in writing within 30 days to any notice made under paragraph (d) of this clause. A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of a direction, or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto, shall be subject to the provisions of the Disputes clause of this contract. (f) The Contractor shall provide copies of all correspondence to the Contracting Officer and the COR. (g) Any action(s) taken by the Contractor, in response to any direction given by any person acting on behalf of the Government or any Government official other than the Contracting Officer or the COR acting within his or her appointment, shall be at the Contractor's risk. (End of clause) G.9 KEY PERSONNEL The Contractor has designated the following as the key personnel under this Contract:
Position Employee

In the event that the key personnel become unavailable to continue in the performance of this Contract, the appointment of a replacement shall be subject to prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. G.10 CONTRACTOR SUPERVISION The Contractor shall provide total supervision of its staff. Government personnel are not authorized or permitted to supervise any Contractor personnel. The Contractor's Project Manager for this Contract is , who shall communicate with the COR to determine the Government's work requirements as set forth in the Statement of Work and shall assure that these requirements are fulfilled. In the event the designated Project Manager is incapacitated due to illness or injury or otherwise is to be removed by the Contractor during the Contract performance, replacement of the incumbent Project Manager shall be subject to the approval of the CO. G.11 NON PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT This contract is a "non-personal services contract" as defined in the FAR Subpart 37.101. It is understood and agreed that the Contractor and/or Contractor's employees, consultants and subcontractors: (1) Shall perform the services specified herein as independent Contractors, not as employees of the Government. Shall be responsible for their own management and administration of the work required, and bear sole responsibility for complying with any and all technical, schedule, or financial requirements or constraints attendant to the performance of this contract.

(2)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 13 of 46

(3)

Shall be free from any direct or indirect supervision or control by any Government employee with respect to the manner or method of performance of the services specified Shall, pursuant to the government rights under contract clauses such as "Inspection," and "Key Personnel" comply with such general direction of authorized Government employees as is necessary and appropriate to ensure accomplishment of the contract requirements and objectives. SECTION H - SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

(4)

H.1 1252.239-70 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (APR 2005) (a) The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology security for all systems connected to a Department of Transportation (DOT) network or operated by the Contractor for DOT, regardless of location. This clause is applicable to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology resources or services in which the Contractor has physical or electronic access to DOT's sensitive information that directly supports the mission of DOT. The term "information technology", as used in this clause, means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, including telecommunications equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes both major applications and general support systems as defined by OMB Circular A-130. Examples of tasks that require security provisions include: (1) Hosting of DOT e-Government sites or other IT operations; (2) Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DOT with significant replacement cost should the contractor's copy be corrupted; and (3) Access to DOT general support systems/major applications at a level beyond that granted the general public, e.g. bypassing a firewall. (b) The Contractor shall develop, provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract. The plan shall describe those parts of the contract to which this clause applies. The Contractor's IT Security Plan shall comply with applicable Federal Laws that include, but are not limited to, 40 U.S.C. 11331, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 and the EGovernment Act of 2002. The plan shall meet IT security requirements in accordance with Federal and DOT policies and procedures, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract that include, but are not limited to: (1) OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Appendix III, Security of Federal Automated Information Resources;

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 14 of 46

(2) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Guidelines; (3) Departmental Information Resource Management Manual (DIRMM) and associated guidelines; and (4) DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. (c) Within 30 days after contract award, the contractor shall submit the IT Security Plan to the DOT Contracting Officer for acceptance. This plan shall be consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal or sealed bid that resulted in the award of this contract and in compliance with the requirements stated in this clause. The plan, as accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The Contractor shall comply with the accepted plan. (d) Within 6 months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to the DOT for acceptance by the DOT Contracting Officer. Such written proof may be furnished either by the Contractor or by a third party. Accreditation must be in accordance with DOT Order 1350.2, which is available from the Contracting Officer upon request. This accreditation will include a final security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document, and shall include a final security plan, a risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery/continuity of operations plan. The contractor shall comply with the accepted accreditation documentation. (e) On an annual basis, the contractor shall submit verification to the Contracting Officer that the IT Security Plan remains valid. (f) The contractor will ensure that the following banners are displayed on all DOT systems (both public and private) operated by the contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: Government Warning **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING** Unauthorized access is a violation of U.S. Law and Department of Transportation policy, and may result in criminal or administrative penalties. Users shall not access other user's or system files without proper authority. Absence of access controls IS NOT authorization for access! DOT information systems and related equipment are intended for communication, transmission, processing and storage of U.S. Government information. These systems and equipment are subject to monitoring by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Monitoring may result in the acquisition, recording, and analysis of all data being communicated, transmitted, processed or stored in this system by law enforcement and authorized Department officials. Use of this system constitutes consent to such monitoring. **WARNING**WARNING**WARNING**

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 15 of 46

(g) The contractor will ensure that the following banner is displayed on all DOT systems that contain Privacy Act information operated by the contractor prior to allowing anyone access to the system: This system contains information protected under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-579). Any privacy information displayed on the screen or printed shall be protected from unauthorized disclosure. Employees who violate privacy safeguards may be subject to disciplinary actions, a fine of up to $5,000, or both. (h) Contractor personnel requiring privileged access or limited privileged access to systems operated by the Contractor for DOT or interconnected to a DOT network shall be screened at an appropriate level in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management, as it may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract. (i) The Contractor shall ensure that its employees, in performance of the contract performing under this contract, receive annual IT security training in accordance with OMB Circular A-130, FISMA, and NIST requirements, as they may be amended from time to time during the term of this contract, with a specific emphasis on rules of behavior. (j) The Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractors and subcontractors facilities, installations, operations, documentation, databases and personnel used in performance of the contract. Access shall be provided to the extent required to carry out a program of IT inspection (to include vulnerability testing), investigation and audit to safeguard against threats and hazards to the integrity, availability and confidentiality of DOT data or to the function of information technology systems operated on behalf of DOT, and to preserve evidence of computer crime. (k) The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts that meet the conditions in paragraph (a) of this clause. (l) The contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer when an employee terminates employment that has access to DOT information systems or data. H.2 REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING SECTION 508 STANDARDS The following applies to all FHWA Contracts issued on or after June 25, 2001, for Preparation of Technical reports or other documents that FHWA plans to post on a website. In addition to the work requirements specified in this statement of work, vendors must ensure that all electronic documents that they prepare will meet the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. The act requires that all electronic products prepared for the Federal Government be accessible to persons with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, cognitive, and mobility impairments. Vendors can view Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm) and the Federal IT Accessibility Initiative (Home Page) (http://section508.gov/) for detailed information.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 16 of 46

The FHWA has determined that the accessibility requirements contained in the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards, Section 1194.22, "Web-based intranet and internet information and applications," apply to this work. The standards are available at www.access-board.gov/508.htm. The following paragraphs summarize the requirements for preparing FHWA reports in conformance with Section 508 for eventual posting by FHWA to an FHWA-sponsored website. If you have further questions, please contact the FHWA contracting officers technical representatives listed in this statement of work. Electronic documents with images Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element in all publications prepared in electronic format. Use descriptions (such as, "alt" and "longdesc") for all non-text images or place them in element content. For all documents prepared, vendors must prepare one standard HTML format (as described in this statement of work) AND one text format that includes descriptions for all non-text images. "Text equivalent" means text sufficient to reasonably describe the image. For example, an image that is merely decorative requires only a very brief "text equivalent" description. However, if the image conveys information that is important to the content of the report, then text sufficient to reasonably describe that image and its purpose within the context of the report must be provided. Electronic documents with complex charts or data tables When preparing tables that are heavily designed, provide adequate alternate information so that assistive technologies can read them out. Identify row and column headers for data tables. Provide the information in a non-linear form. Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. Electronic documents with forms When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues. H.3 POST-AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERRFORMANCE Contractor Performance Evaluations a. Interim and final evaluations of contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR 42.1502 and TAM 1242.1502. The final performance evaluations will be prepared at the time of completion of work. b. The Contractor can elect to review the evaluation and submit additional information or a rebuttal statement. The contractor will be permitted 30 calendar days to respond. Contractor response is voluntary. If the contractor does not respond within 30 days, the Government will presume that the contractor has no comment. Any disagreement between the parties regarding an evaluation will be referred to an individual at a level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision is final.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 17 of 46

c. Copies of the evaluations, contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions. Federal Highway Administration utilizes the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) to record and maintain past performance information. CPARS hosts a suite of web-enabled applications that are used to document contractor performance information that is required by Federal Regulations. The CPARS module assesses performance on contracts for Systems, Services, Information Technology, and Operations Support. The Architect-Engineer Contract Administration Support System (ACASS) module assesses performance on Architect-Engineer contracts. The Construction Contractor Appraisal Support System (CCASS) module assesses performance on Construction contracts. CPARS reference material can be accessed at http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsfiles/cpars/refmatl.htm. The registration process requires the contractor to identify an individual that will serve as a primary contact. This individual will be authorized access to the evaluation for review and comment. In addition, the contractor is encouraged to identify a secondary contact in the event the primary contact is unavailable to process the evaluation within the required 30-day time period. After the FHWA Contract Specialist registers the contract in CPARS, the contractor will receive a system generated e-mail notifying him/her that the contract is registered. A system generated e-mail will also provide the contractor with a User ID if the person does not already have a CPARS User ID. Once a performance evaluation has been prepared and is ready for comment, the contractor representative will receive a system generated e-mail notification that the performance evaluation is electronically available for review and comment. The contractor representative will receive an automated e-mail whenever an assessment is completed and can subsequently retrieve the completed assessment from CPARS. Contractors may access evaluations at www.cpars.csd.disa.mil for review and comment in CPARS. H.4 UNAUTHORIZED USE AND DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION To the extent that the work under this Contract requires access to proprietary data, the Contractor shall protect such data from unauthorized use. This refers to either Government or other confidential financial or business information. H.5 ACCESS TO SENSITIVE INFORMATION BY CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES Work under this Contract may involve access to sensitive information* which shall not be disclosed by the Contractor unless authorized by the Contracting Officer. To protect sensitive information, the Contractor shall provide training to any Contractor employee authorized access to sensitive information and, upon request of the Government, provide information as to an individual's suitability to have such authorization. Contractor employees found by the Government to be unsuitable or whose employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 18 of 46

consistent with the best interest of national security, may be prevented from performing work under the particular Contract when requested by the Contracting officer. The Contractor shall ensure that Contractor employees are: (1) citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced by Immigration and Naturalization Service documentation; and (2) have background investigations in accordance with DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management. The Contractor shall include the above requirements in any subcontract awarded involving access to Government facilities, sensitive information, and/or resources. *Sensitive Information is proprietary data or other information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss or misuse could adversely affect national interest, conduct of Federal programs, or privacy of individuals specified in the Privacy Act, but has not been specifically authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy under an Executive Order or Act of Congress. H.6 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL PREPROCESSING, BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION and INFORMATION SECURITY SYSTEM AWARENESS TRAINING a. This FHWA local clause is applicable to contracts that have or will have Contractor Personnel (CP) working onsite in FHWA facilities, have CP who require DOT network access, require access to sensitive information, OR access to DOT resources. The clause is issued to: 1) supplement DOT HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification, TAR 1252.237-70 Qualifications of Contractor Employees, and TAR 1252.239-70 Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Resources, 2) provide detailed instructions for preprocessing CP and initiating background investigations, 3) implement the requirement for CP who work onsite in FHWA facilities OR require Department of Transportation (DOT) network access to submit proof of Information Security System Awareness (ISSA) training in conjunction with their background investigation request, and 4) provide information about the required ISSA training. b. CP shall not be permitted to begin work in FHWA facilities, have connectivity to the DOT network, access sensitive information, OR access DOT resources until documentation required to initiate a background investigation is received, ISSA training is completed, and authorization is received from FHWA Personnel Security. The initial process takes several business days and IS ONLY THE BEGINNING OF THE ACTUAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION. The Contractor, Program Manager (PM)/CP will be notified by FHWA Personnel Security via e-mail once CP are cleared to report for duty. While CP may report for duty, final clearance is granted only after the background investigation is complete. Completion of the background

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 19 of 46

investigation can take months depending upon the actual investigation findings and the depth of investigation that results from those findings. The Government will provide the Contractor/PM/CP with all required forms to initiate a background investigation for use by CP. Contractor/PM/CP shall complete and submit required forms for a background investigation as soon as possible after notification of selection for a position. It is imperative that the PM and CP respond promptly to any additional information requests from the COR, FHWA Personnel Security, or the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST) Security Office so that the process can be completed as efficiently and quickly as possible. 1) Immediately upon notification of selection for a position, CP shall fill out the Form DOT 1600.8, Personnel Security Action Request and Notification. This form is used to initiate a background investigation. The Form DOT 1600.8 can be found here http://www.volpe.dot.gov/career/docs/psaf1600-8.doc or sent to the Contractor/PM/CP by the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). Upon completion, this form shall be submitted to the field specialist/COR who will complete the "Requesting Office" section. The COR will submit the completed DOT 1600.8 to FHWA Personnel Security. 2) In addition to the DOT 1600.8, CP shall provide two fingerprint samples for the background investigation. Contractor/PM/CP can obtain the blank fingerprint cards from the COR. CP can have fingerprints taken at their local Law Enforcement agency. PMs in the local commuting area (DC, Virginia, Maryland, etc.) may arrange through their COR for CP to visit the Identification Media Center in the Headquarters West Building, Room W-12 for fingerprinting. Contractor/PM/CP shall mail or express mail (highly recommended) two fingerprint cards to FHWA Personnel Security. CP in the local commuting area have the choice of mailing their fingerprint cards or giving them directly to the COR. It is highly recommended that CP who will be working at Headquarters or Turner-Fairbanks Highway Research Center get fingerprinting done at the Identification Media Center in the Headquarters West Building. 3) All onsite or network access CP must complete ISSA training. ISSA training can be found at http://sat.dot.gov with the title "Federal ISS Awareness (for non-DoD Personnel)." Questions about the ISSA training should be directed to the COR. After completion, CP must print a copy of the training certificate. The certificate shall be submitted along with the DOT 1600.8 to the COR. Subsequent refresher training is required annually by a date to be determined each year. 4) The Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (E-QIP) system provides a questionnaire that is used to collect information required to do a background investigation. For CP who have a current background investigation, the Contractor/PM/CP will be notified by the OST Security Office if the E-QIP is required. CP will be granted access to the E-QIP system after the DOT 1600.8 is submitted to FHWA Personnel Security by the field specialist/COR. CP will receive an email from the OST Security Office and/or the FHWA Personnel Security with a link to the E-QIP system. The e-mail will also contain instructions on the required actions and documents that must be completed and submitted to the

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 20 of 46

COR. Note that the documents may be hand carried to FHWA Personnel Security by the PM or CP provided that they are escorted by the COR. 5) Under some circumstances a resume will be requested. 6) Once the items listed above are received and processed by FHWA Personnel Security, and the PM or CP receive notification that CP may report for duty, the COR will initiate a request for DOT network access. When that access is received, which may take several days, CP will receive e-mail instructions for applying for a DOT identification (ID) card. The process to receive the ID card is governed by OST Security Office and may also take several days. 7) If, due to the results of the background check or any other reason, CP are found to be unsuitable for work under a FHWA contract, the COR will notify the Contractor/PM. H.7 U.S.DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT) CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL SECURITY AND AGENCY ACCESS (NOVEMBER 2011)

The following definitions are provided: ˇ "Agency Access" means access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other DOT resources. ˇ "Applicant" is a contractor employee for whom the contractor submits an application for a DOT identification card. ˇ "Contractor Employee" means prime contractor and subcontractor employees who require agency access to perform work under a DOT contract. ˇ "Identification Card" (or "ID card") means a government issued or accepted identification card such as a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) card, a PIVInteroperable (PIV-I) card from an authorized PIV-I issuer, or a non-PIV card issued by DOT, or a non-PIV card issued by another Federal agency and approved by DOT. PIV and PIV-I cards have physical and electronic attributes that other (nonPIV) ID cards do not have. ˇ "Issuing Office" means the DOT entity that issues identification cards to contractor employees. ˇ "Local Security Servicing Organization" means the DOT entity that provides security services to the DOT organization sponsoring the contract. 1. Risk and Sensitivity Level Designations ­ For contracts requiring access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other DOT resources, the contractor employees will be required to complete background investigations, identity proofing, and government identification card application procedures to determine suitability for access. DOT will assign a risk and sensitivity level designation to the overall contract and/or to contractor employee positions by category, group or individual. The risk and sensitivity level designations will be the basis for determining the level of personnel security processing required for contractor employees.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 21 of 46

IF THE DESIGNATED RISK IS: Low Moderate High

THE BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION IS: National Agency Check with Written Inquiries NACI) Minimum Background Investigation (MBI) Background Investigation (BI)

Contractor employees may also be required to obtain security clearances (i.e., Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret). National Security work designated "special sensitive," "critical sensitive," or "non-critical sensitive" will determine the level of clearance required for contractor employees. Personnel security clearances for national security contracts in DOT will be processed according to the Department of Defense National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM). 2. Pre-screening of Contractor Employees - The contractor must pre-screen individuals designated for employment under any DOT contract by verifying minimal suitability requirements to ensure that only quality candidates are considered for contract employment, and to mitigate the burden on the Government of conducting background investigations on objectionable applicants. The contractor must exercise due diligence in pre-screening all employees prior to submission to DOT for agency access. DOT may decline to grant agency access to a contractor employee for reasons including, but not limited to: a) Conviction of a felony, a crime of violence, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. b) Falsification of information entered on forms or of other documents submitted. c) Improper conduct including criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct or other conduct adverse to the Government regardless of whether the conduct is directly related to the contract. d) Any behavior judged to pose a potential threat to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other resources. 3. Citizenship and Alien Status - The contractor must monitor an alien's continued authorization for employment in the United States. The contractor must provide documentation to the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) during the background investigation process that validates that the E-Verify requirement has been met for each contractor employee. 4. Background Investigation and Adjudication ­ The contractor employee must have a favorable adjudication of background investigation before DOT will issue an ID card to the contractor employee granting access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other DOT resources. DOT may accept favorable adjudications of background investigations from other Federal agencies when applicants have held PIV cards issued by those agencies with no break in service. DOT may also accept PIV-I (interoperable) cards issued by an authorized PIV-I issuer as evidence of identity. A favorable adjudication does not preclude DOT from initiating a new investigation when deemed necessary. At a minimum, the FBI National Criminal History Check (fingerprint check) must be favorably completed before a DOT

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 22 of 46

identification card can be issued. Each contractor must use the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) E-QIP system to complete any required investigative forms. Instructions for obtaining fingerprints will be provided by the COR or CO. The DOT Office of Security, M-40, or a DOT organization delegated authority by M-40, is responsible for adjudicating the suitability of contractor employees. 5. Agency Access Denied ­ Upon contract award, DOT will initiate the agency access procedure for all contractor employees requiring access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems and other DOT resources for contract performance. DOT may deny agency access to any individual about whom an adverse suitability determination is made. Failure to submit the required security information or to truthfully answer all questions shall constitute grounds for denial of access. The contractor must not provide agency access to contractor employees until the COR or CO provides notice of approval, which is authorized only by the DOT Office of Security (M-40) or a DOT organization delegated authority by M-40. Where a proposed contractor's employees are denied agency access by the Government or, if for any reason proposed applications are withdrawn by the contractor during the agency access process, the additional costs and administrative burden for conducting additional background investigations caused by a lack of effective pre-screening or planning on the part of the contractor may be considered as part of the contractor's overall performance evaluation. 6. Identification Card Application Process - The COR will be the DOT ID card Sponsor and point of contact for the contractor's application for a DOT ID card. The COR shall review and approve the DOT ID card application before an ID card is issued to the applicant. An applicant may be issued either a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) card that meets the standards of Homeland Presidential Security Directive (HSPD-12), or an applicant may be issued a non-PIV card. Generally, a non-PIV card will be issued for contracts that expire in six months or less, including option periods. The COR may request the issuing office to waive the six month eligibility requirement when it is in DOT's interest for contract performance. The applicant must complete a DOT on-line application for a PIV card. For a non-PIV card, the applicant must complete and submit a hard copy of Form 1681 to the COR/Sponsor. Regardless of the type of card to be issued (PIV or non-PIV), the applicant must appear in-person to provide two forms of identity source documents in original form to DOT. The identity source documents must come from the list of acceptable documents included in Form I-9, OMB No. 1115-0136, Employment Eligibility Verification. At least one document must be a valid State or Federal government-issued picture identification. For a PIV card, the applicant may be required to appear in-person a second time for enrollment and activation. 7. Identification Card Custody and Control ­ The contractor is responsible for the custody and control of all forms of government identification issued by DOT to contractor employees for access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems and

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 23 of 46

other DOT resources. The contractor must immediately notify the COTR or, if the COR is unavailable, the CO when a contractor employee no longer requires agency access due to transfer, completion of a project, retirement, removal from work on the contract, or termination of employment. The contractor is responsible for maintaining and safeguarding the DOT ID card upon issuance to the contractor employee. The contractor must ensure that contractor employees comply with DOT requirements concerning the renewal, loss, theft, or damage of an ID card. The contractor must immediately notify the COR or, if the COR is unavailable, the CO when an ID card is lost, stolen or damaged. Failure to comply with the requirements for custody and control of DOT ID cards may result in withholding final payment or contract termination based on the potential for serious harm caused by inappropriate access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other DOT resources. a) Renewal: A contractor employee's DOT issued ID card is valid for a maximum of three years or until the contract expiration date (including option periods), whichever occurs first. The renewal process should begin six weeks before the PIV card expiration date. If a PIV card is not renewed before it expires, the contractor employee will be required to sign-in daily for facility access and may have limited access to information systems and other resources. b) Lost/Stolen: Immediately upon detection, the contractor or contractor employee must report a lost or stolen DOT ID card to the COR, or if the COR is unavailable, the CO, the issuing office, or the local servicing security organization. The contractor must submit an incident report within 48 hours, through the COR or, if the COR is unavailable, the CO, the issuing office, or the local security servicing organization describing the circumstances of the loss or theft. The contractor must also report a lost or stolen PIV card through the DOT on-line registration system. If the loss or theft is reported by the contractor to the local police, a copy of the police report must be provided to the COR or CO. From the date of notification to DOT, the contractor must wait three days before getting a replacement ID card. During the 3-day wait period, the contractor employee must sign in daily for facility access. c) Replacement: An ID card will be replaced if it is damaged, contains incorrect data, or is lost or stolen for more than 3 days, provided there is a continuing need for agency access to perform work under the contract. 8. Surrender of ID Cards ­ Upon notification that routine access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other DOT resources is no longer required, the contractor must surrender the DOT issued ID card to the COR, or if the COR is unavailable, the CO, the issuing office, or the local security servicing organization in accordance with agency procedures.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 24 of 46

Use of This Clause - The contractor is required to include these clauses in any subcontracts that require the subcontractor or subcontractor's employees to have access to DOT facilities, sensitive information, information systems or other resources. H.8 DISSEMINATION OF CONTRACT INFORMATION The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute information, oral or written, concerning the results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this Contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. Two copies of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer, and one copy to the COR. H.9 LIMITATION ON FUTURE CONTRACTING It is agreed by the parties of this Contract that the Contractor will be restricted in its future Contracting with FHWA to the manner described below. Except as specifically provided in this clause, the Contractor shall be free to compete for FHWA business on an equal basis with other companies. If the Contractor, under the terms of this Contract, is required to develop specifications or statements of work, or materials leading directly, predictably or without delay to a statement of work to be used in the competitive procurement of a system or services, the Contractor shall be ineligible to perform the work described within that solicitation as a prime Contractor, subcontractor, Consultant, or in any capacity to any supplier under an ensuing FHWA Contract. Such restrictions shall remain in effect for one year following the date of the initial solicitation. H.10 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER - CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION The Contract resulting from this solicitation will contain FAR clause 52.232-33, "Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration." All Contractors receiving payments under FHWA Contracts, purchase orders, delivery orders, or other Contractualvehicles must be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. The CCR is a Department of Defense (DOD) web-based repository of Contractor information. The Electronic Funds Transfer information in the CCR must be accurate in order for Contractors' invoices or Contract financing requests to be considered proper invoices for the purpose of prompt payment under DOT Contracts. Interested offerors should read and understand the requirements of FAR 52.232-33. The successful offeror must register in the CCR before submitting any invoices or Contract financing instruments to the FHWA, and must maintain current, updated information in CCR throughout the performance period of the Contract. Offerors can register in CCR at any time and are encouraged to do so immediately.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 25 of 46

Offerors may register in the CCR database and obtain additional information at http://www.ccr.gov, or by calling 1-888-227-2423. The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR, and for any liability resulting from the DOT's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor must confirm on an annual basis that its information in the database is accurate and complete. *****ALERT**** FRAUDULENT CCR LETTERS*********** Recently, current U. S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Contractors and potential Contractors have received fraudulent letters purporting to be issued by DOT. These fraudulent letters request that current or potential Contractors register in the DOD CCR. If you receive such a letter, please DO NOT complete the requested CCR worksheet that is attached to the letters and DO NOT release any information to the facsimile number cited in the letter. Please be aware that no Federal agency requires any confidential information to be submitted to verify CCR registration. The CCR is a legitimate government system. However, to register, Contractors should go directly through the CCR website and never through a third party. There is no requirement to send information directly to any Federal agency. For information on how to register in the CCR, please visit website http://www.ccr.gov/ or http://www.ccr.gov/index.cfm.

PART II
SECTION I - CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 FH.1 Printing Restrictions

All printing funded by this agreement must be done in conformance with Joint Committee on Printing regulations as prescribed in Title 44, United States Code, and Section 308 of Public Law 101-163, and all applicable Government Printing Office and Department of Transportation regulations. I.2 FAR 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): www.acquisition.gov/far FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) 1. 52.202-1 Definitions (JAN 2012) 2. 52.203-3 Gratuities (APR 1984) 3. 52.203-5 Covenant Against Contingent Fees (APR 1984)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 26 of 46

4. 52.203-6 Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (SEP 2006) 5. 52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures (OCT 2010) 6. 52.203-8 Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) 7. 52.203-10 Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (JAN 1997) 8. 52.203-12 Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (OCT 2010) 9. 52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (MAY 2011) 10. 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration (APR 2008) 11. 52.204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (FEB 2012) 12. 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) 13. 52.215-2 Audit and Records - Negotiation (OCT 2010) 14. 52.215-8 Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format (OCT 1997) 15. 52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999) 16. 52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (MAR 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this Contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the Contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. If the Government exercises this option, the extended Contract shall be considered to include this option clause. The Contract will be for a base period of 12 months, with a Government option for three additional 12-month periods. A performance review will be conducted prior to the completion of the base Contract and before the Government's determination to exercise its option. The total duration of this Contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 48 months.

(b)

(c)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 27 of 46

17. 52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) 18. 52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Representation (APR 2009) 19. 52.222-3 Convict Labor (JUN 2003) 20. 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999) 21. 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) 22. 52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) 23. 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) 24. 52.222-37 Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) 25. 52.222-40 Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) 26. 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons (DEC 2009) 27. 52.222-54 Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009) 28. 52.223-6 Drug-Free Workplace (MAY 2001) 29. 52.223-18 Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) 30. 52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUN 2008) 31. 52.227-1 Authorization and Consent (DEC 2007) 32. 52.227-14 Rights in Data--General (DEC 2007) 33. 52.229-3 Federal, State, and Local Taxes (APR 2003) 34. 52.232-1 Payments (APR 1984) 35. 52.232-8 Discounts for Prompt Payment (FEB 2002) 36. 52.232-11 Extras (APR 1984) 37. 52.232-17 Interest (OCT 2010) 38. 52.232-23 Assignment of Claims (JAN 1986)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 28 of 46

39. 52.232-25 Prompt Payment (OCT 2008) 40. 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003) 41. 52.233-1 Disputes (JUL 2002) 42. 52.233-3 Protest after Award (AUG 1996) 43. 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) 44. 52.242-13 Bankruptcy (JUL 1995) 45. 52.243-1 Changes - Fixed-Price (AUG 1987) - Alternate I (APR 1984) 46. 52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Items (DEC 2010) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-"Commercial item" has the meaning contained in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101, Definitions. "Subcontract" includes a transfer of commercial items between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the Contractor or subcontractor at any tier. (b) To the maximum extent practicable, the Contractor shall incorporate, and require its subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, commercial items or nondevelopmental items as components of items to be supplied under this contract. (c)(1) The Contractor shall insert the following clauses in subcontracts for commercial items: (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)), if the subcontract exceeds $5,000,000 and has a performance period of more than 120 days. In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (ii) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (JUN 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5), if the subcontract is funded under the Recovery Act.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 29 of 46

(iii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (DEC 2010) (15U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212(a)). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (ix) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. App. 1241 and 10 U.S.C. 2631), if flow down is required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the Contractor may flow down to subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this contract. 47. 52.246-25 Limitation of Liability - Services (FEB 1997) 48. 52.249-2 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (MAY 2004) 49. 52.249-8 Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (APR 1984) 50. 52.253-1 Computer Generated Forms (JAN 1991)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 30 of 46

II.

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACQUISITION REGULATIONS (TAR) (48 CHAPTER 12) CLAUSES Seat Belt Use Policies and Programs (APR 2005) Dissemination of Contract Information (OCT 1994)

1252.223-73 1252.242-72

SECTION J - LIST OF ATTACHMENTS No Attachments are included in this RFP.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 31 of 46

SECTION K ­ REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATION, AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS K.1 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications (FEB 2012) (a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is __________________ [insert NAICS code]. (2) The small business size standard is _____________ [insert size standard]. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) (1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c) (1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 32 of 46

(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- Representation. This provision applies to solicitations using funds appropriated in fiscal years 2008, 2009, or 2010. 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government.

(iii)

(iv)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (ix) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 33 of 46

(A)

The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.

(B)

(x)

52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.

(xi)

(xii)

(xiii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiv) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA­designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA­designated items. 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1.

(xv)

(xvi)

(xvii) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 34 of 46

(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (xviii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xix) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-- Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran--Representation and Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations. 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-- Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns.

(xx)

(xxi)

(A)

(B)

(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (i) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. __ (A) Basic. __ (B) Alternate I. __ (ii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. __ (iii) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. __ (iv) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services­Certification.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 35 of 46

__ (v) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Products (Alternate I only). __ (vi) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. __ (A) Basic. __(B) Alternate I. __ (vii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR CLAUSE # ____________ TITLE _________ DATE _____ CHANGE _______

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of provision) K.2 FAR 52.209-7 Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (FEB 2012)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 36 of 46

does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).

(2)

"Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) (ii) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or

(iii)

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 37 of 46

(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.

(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision) SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS OR QUOTERS AMENDMENTS TO SOLICITATION This RFP is being transmitted electronically. Offerors are reminded that if you download copies of this or any other solicitation you will NOT automatically receive amendments to those solicitations. It is the offeror's responsibility to check back frequently to the download source to see if any amendments have been issued to solicitations you have downloaded. All amendments will be posted to, and downloadable from www.fedbizopps.gov. ADMINISTRATIVE POINT OF CONTACT Offerors shall direct all questions to Ms. Angela A. Jones at email Angela.Jones@dot.gov or phone number (202) 366-4255. L.1 FAR 52.216-1 Type of Contract (APR 1984) The Government contemplates award of a firm-fixed-price Contract resulting from this solicitation.
NOTE: THIS REQUIREMENT IS SUBJECT TO FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION

L.2 COMPETITION AWARD WITHOUT DISCUSSIONS Pursuant to FAR 52.215-1 (JAN 2004), subparagraph (f)(4), "The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a Contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror's initial proposal should contain the offeror's best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 38 of 46

competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals." (emphasis added) L.3 ESTIMATED AWARD DATE The estimated award date for this acquisition is August 31, 2012. IMPORTANT DELIVERY INFORMATION (Please show the RFP number and closing date on the forwarding envelope) Your proposals shall be submitted in an original hard copy and electronic (email) copy to the attention of Ms. Angela A. Jones, Angela.Jones@dot.gov. The original shall be submitted to: Federal Highway Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE HAAM-20F, Mail Drop: E65-101 Washington, DC 20590 Attention: Angela A. Jones NOTE: Security procedures prohibit non-uniformed couriers from delivering material directly to offices in the DOT building. Only uniformed couriers from FedEx and the United Parcel Service, who are dressed in a uniform bearing their organization's name and possessing official identification, may deliver proposals or sealed bids directly to the Office of Acquisition Management. Other couriers and individuals must deliver material to the mailroom/visitor's center at the DOT building's main entrance at 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE. The guard may accept the material, dismiss the courier, and then the material will be examined and x-rayed prior to being delivered to the FHWA, Office of Acquisition Management through the normal building mail delivery procedures. This could add one or more working days to the delivery time. FHWA is not responsible for pick-up of offeror's proposals from DOT security guards nor from the DOT mailroom. Offeror must make allowances for these procedures in order to assure that offers arrive on time. Bids/offers must be received by the Office of Acquisition Management by the time and date due, to be considered timely, not just delivered to the mail room/visitor's center. To assist in expediting delivery, the outside of the envelope/package containing the offer must be marked with the completed Optional Form 17, Offer Label, available online at http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/aaa/forms1.htm. Further, please be advised that all of our mail (items handled by the U.S. Postal Service) may be sent out of town for scanning and irradiation prior to delivery to the building. This process can add several days to your mailing time, even from local addresses.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 39 of 46

Please keep these factors in mind as you determine the best means to deliver your proposal so as to ensure delivery in the Office of Acquisition Management by Monday, April 9, 2012, no later than 3:15 PM (Washington D.C. Time) on the date specified on page 1 of the RFP. Please direct all questions in writing, via email to Ms. Angela A. Jones, Angela.Jones@dot.gov. Questions deemed substantive and of concern to all potential offerors may be responded to via amendment to the solicitation. In order to respond to questions in a timely manner, please submit all questions no later than Friday, March 30, 2012. FACSIMILIE BIDS Facsimile bids/proposals will not be considered for this solicitation. L.4 PROCUREMENT INTEGRITY ACT REQUIREMENTS Offerors' attention is directed to the provision 52.215-1(e) and FAR 3.104-5 for a discussion on marking and protection of proposal information. L.5 INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL INFORMATION Responses submitted for this request for proposals (RFP) must adhere to the format and content instructions set forth below. These instructions have been specifically tailored to the process and the evaluation criteria to be applied during proposal evaluation. Failure to submit any of the information requested by this RFP may be cause for unfavorable consideration. Any inconsistencies between the various sections of an Offeror's response must be fully explained. A significant inconsistency, if unexplained, may raise a fundamental question of the Offeror's understanding of the work required, and ability to perform the Contract. The Offeror's response should demonstrate understanding of this procurement and capability for performance in a concise, logical, manner and should not contain superfluous material which is not directly related to this procurement. This request for proposals is written in the Uniform Contract Format described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) section 15.204-1. Offerors are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the Uniform Contract Format. This will facilitate their understanding of the terms and conditions of this solicitation, the instructions which follow, and the source selection process. The Government advises prospective Offerors to read the terms and conditions of the model Contract carefully and to refer any questions of interpretation to the Contracting Officer in writing sufficiently before the deadline for the receipt of proposals. L.6 AUTHORIZED OFFICAL AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization and must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 40 of 46

L.7 PROPOSAL FORMAT A. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS Offeror shall submit the following: 1. Proposals shall be prepared on 8 ˝ x 11inch paper except for foldouts used for charts, tables or figures. Foldouts shall not exceed 11 x 17 inches and shall count as two pages. A page is defined as one side of an 8 ˝ x 11inch paper. Therefore, a piece of paper with printing on both sides is considered two pages. Text shall be printed using a font size no less than 12 pitch. Tables, figures, headers, etc. are exceptions from the 12-pitch requirement. Page margins shall be a minimum of 1inch top, bottom and each side. Where not to exceed page limits are provided, these limits include tables and appendices but exclude the transmittal letter, Title Page and/or a Table of Contents. These limits reflect the FHWA's assessment of the maximum proposal length required to concisely present the information needed for a fair assessment of each offeror's capabilities in relation to the FHWA's requirements for this procurement. In the event an offeror exceeds the designated page limit, the Government will evaluate only the first specified "not to exceed" amount of pages of the proposal. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separately bound volumes: Volume I - Technical (Parts I, II, & III) Part I ­ Technical Approach ­ Not to exceed 20 pages Part II ­ Staffing Proposal ­ Not to exceed three pages in narrative two pages per submitted resume Part III ­ Past Performance ­ Not to exceed five pages Volume II ­ Business and Cost/Price (Parts I & II) Part I ­ Cost/Price Part II ­ Other Financial/Organizational Information B. VOLUME I - TECHNICAL - This volume shall consist of three parts. Parts I through III shall be bound together. No cost/price data shall be included in any part of Volume I.

2.

3.

4. 5.

6.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 41 of 46

Part I ­ Technical Approach (maximum 20 pages) The technical approach should consist of a clear and concise discussion of the offeror's understanding of and approach to accomplish the Statement of Work delineated in Section C. It shall also include a section addressing the approach for completing the security plan and accreditation requirements in TAR clause 1252.239-70 (See Section H). The technical approach will be used in evaluating the offeror's technical capability according to the criteria described in Section M. Part II ­ Staffing Plan (maximum three pages in narrative and two pages per submitted resume) The Contractor shall assemble a staff of professionals who collectively are well qualified in all of the areas of expertise required to achieve the objectives of the RFP. A narrative shall address the Contractor's staffing plan, and the offeror shall provide resumes for all proposed staff members. The staffing plan shall include a table of the estimated number of labor hours to complete the work effort by person and CLIN. Offerors shall propose and identify Key Personnel. Key Personnel shall include a program manager. The staffing plan will be used in evaluating the offeror's technical capability according to the criteria described in Section M. Part III ­ Past Performance (maximum five pages) The offeror shall provide a narrative outlining the extent, depth, and quality of company/proposed team past performance relating to the services or products needed, as described in the Statement of Work. The offeror may identify any relevant quality awards or certifications that they have received over the past three years. In those instances where a new corporate entity lacks relevant past performance history, they may submit data on the individual components that comprise the new entity or on individual key personnel with past performance history. The offeror shall provide a matrix of recent relevant past performance (within the last three years), which shall include the following: a short description of the work, the dates of work performance, the name of the client and a contact phone number and email address. Failure to provide complete information regarding previous similar and/or related Contracts may result in eventual disqualification. The offeror shall list any Contract that was terminated for convenience of the Government within the past 3 years, and any Contract that was terminated for default within the past 5 years. Briefly explain the circumstances in each instance. The past performance information provided, and any other past performance information available to the Government, will be used in evaluating the offeror's past performance as described in Section M.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 42 of 46

C. VOLUME II - BUSINESS AND COST/PRICE PROPOSAL - This volume shall be bound separately from Volume I. There is no page limit on Volume II. The cost/price proposal shall be specific and complete in every detail. This volume shall include all pricing information and certain general financial/organization information, as described below: Part I ­ Cost or Price Proposal a. Blocks 12 through 18 of Standard Form 33 (Page 1 of this RFP) must be filled in as appropriate, signed and retuned with the offer. b. A table based upon the CLIN table in Section B of the RFP must be included summarizing the offeror's proposed pricing. Part II - Other Financial/Organizational Information a. Offeror shall provide its DUNS number and Taxpayer ID Number (TIN). b. Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities must be completed and submitted as a part of Volume II of the proposal. The Form is available under the forms section at: http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/grants/index.html c. Offeror shall provide fiscal year period (provide month to month dates). d. Offeror shall provide a current financial statement, including a balance sheet and statement of profit or loss for the last fiscal year. Specify resources available to perform the Contract without assistance from any other source. If sufficient funds are not available, indicate the amount required and the anticipated source (i.e., bank loan, letter or lines of credit, etc.). e. Offeror shall include a completed copy of Section K of the RFP. f. If the offeror takes exception to any of the terms/conditions of the RFP, the offeror shall note these exceptions and provide an explanation of each. AWARD Until a formal notice of award is issued, no communication by the Government either written or oral shall be interpreted as a promise that an award will be made. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government to the expenditure of public funds. No cost chargeable to the proposed Contract can be incurred before receipt of a fully executed Contract or specific written authorization from the Contracting Officer.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 43 of 46

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATION IN FULL TEXT L.8 FAR 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 31.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Mr. Frank Waltos, HAAM-10, Federal Highway Administration,1200 New Jersey Ave., SE, Washington, DC 20590 The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

(b)

L.9 FAR 52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998) This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this address:
https://www.acquisition.gov/far/.

L.10 FAR 52.252-5 AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN PROVISIONS (APR 1984) (a) The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. The use in this solicitation of any Department of Transportation Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 12) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the regulation. L.11 TAR 1252.239-71 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY PLAN AND ACCREDITATION (APR 2005) All offers submitted in response to this solicitation must address the approach for completing the security plan and accreditation requirements in TAR clause 1252.239-70.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 44 of 46

L.12 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE In accordance with FAR provision 52.252-1, the following provisions are incorporated herein by reference: 1. 52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors ­ Competitive Acquisition (JAN 2004) 2. 52.215-20 Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 2010) 3. 52.252-3 Alterations in Solicitation (APR 1984)

Portions of this Solicitation are altered as follows: None. COMMUNICATIONS PRIOR TO AWARD Offerors shall direct all communications to the attention of the Contract Specialist or the Contracting Officer cited on the face page of this RFP. Communications with other officials may compromise the competitiveness of this acquisition, and result in cancellation of this solicitation. SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD M.1 EVALUATION CRITERIA The Government's source selection decision will be based on the following three factors: (A) Technical; (B) Price; (C) Past Performance. The method of evaluation for each of these factors is described below. The ultimate award decision will be made based on a determination of overall best value, each of the three factors considered. A. Technical The Government will evaluate offerors technical proposals based on the following criteria listed in order of descending importance. Within each factor, subfactors are of equal importance. 1. Offeror's knowledge and expertise with database and website operations. a. Demonstrated ability to develop, organize, maintain, and update project databases and websites, and to maintain accuracy and relevance. b. Demonstrated knowledge and expertise with databases and websites at the National and State levels. 2. Offeror's knowledge and experience with National and State trail programs. a. Demonstrated knowledge and experience with National and State trail programs, especially with the RTP and/or other Federal-aid highway programs.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 45 of 46

b. Demonstrated experience working in partnership with Federal and State agencies and National and State organizations, especially related to trail programs. c. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively with Federal and State agencies. 3. Offeror's proposal for task fulfillment and completion. a. Adequacy, logic, and practicality of proposed work plan. b. Demonstrated ability to provide accurate and well-edited information. c. Proposal meets the required tasks. 4. Offeror's proposed staff, schedules, facilities, and experience. a. Proposed staff and organizational qualifications and experience demonstrate knowledge and experience in designing and maintaining databases, websites, and similar resources. b. Proposed staff and organizational qualifications and experience demonstrate knowledge and experience of Federal, State, local, and private sector trail programs, especially with the RTP and/or other Federal-aid highway programs. c. Adequacy of the proposed allotment of time, overall and on a task-by-task basis. B. Price In addition to the criteria listed above, price will be considered in the ultimate award decision. C. Past Performance The Government will evaluate the relevant merits of each offeror's past performance on the basis of its reputation with its former customers. The lack of a relevant or recent past performance record will result in a rating of neutral. The Government may review some or all of the following past performance areas: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Timeliness ­ Delivery or Performance Responsiveness to problem and New/Modified tasking Quality of Products or Services provided Cost Control Relative Size and Scope of the project

In evaluating Past Performance, the Government may consider information provided by offerors in their proposal submissions, as well as any other information available to the Government M.2 BASIS FOR AWARD - Relative Importance of the Evaluation Factors. The Government will accept the offer that is considered the most advantageous to the Government using a tradeoff method of selection. Of the three factors, (A) Technical, (B) Price, (C) Past Performance, Technical is considered the most important. The criteria are listed below in descending order of importance: A. Technical B. Price C. Past Performance When combined, Technical and Past Performance are significantly more important than Price.

DTFH61-12-R-00011 PAGE 46 of 46

M.3 FAR 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990) Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government's best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

