
































                                                         GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
                                                           FEDERAL ACQUISITION SERVICE
                                                                 HEARTLAND REGION

                                                             PROJECT #: DKNZ12KM001S

                                                     MARITIME EXPEDITIONARY SECURITY FACILITY
                                                          ARMY RESERVE READINESS CENTER
                                                                  BUILDING S-41
                                                             WELDON SPRINGS, MO 63304

                                                         Performance Work Statement (PWS)


1.0 General. This acquisition is for the purchase and installation of SIP services for the Weldon Springs Naval Training facility, Building S-
41, Weldon Springs, MO 63304.

The requiring agency is: Commander, Navy Installations Command, 716 Sicard Street SE, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20374-5140

The acquiring agency is: GSA, Federal Acquisition Services (FAS), 1500 East Bannister Road
Kansas City, MO 64131-3088

The contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment, tools, materials, supervision, other items, and non-personnel services necessary to
perform the tasks as defined in this PWS. The contractor shall perform to the standards in this contract.

1.1 Project Background. The Maritime Expeditionary Security Facility located at the Army Reserve Readiness Center Building S-41 in Weldon
Springs, MO 63304, currently has neither telephone service nor a phone system.  A 4,200 ft. 1-1/4 in. HDPE conduit extending from the telephone
service office at the front gate to the facility has been buried, but no fiber has been installed in the conduit.

1.2 Contract Type: This is a firm-fixed price (FFP) single award procurement.

1.3 Period of Performance: The period of performance for the purchase, delivery, installation, testing and training shall be no more than sixty
(60) business days beginning on the date of award. In addition there will be a 12 month warranty/maintenance period starting at cutover,
resulting in a total contract period not to exceed fourteen (14) months.

1.4 Work Schedule. Working hours shall be 7:30 am to 4:30 pm, Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays. Delays to the work schedule or
the necessity to work outside normal hours, at no additional cost, shall be coordinated with the Navy representative on site prior to changes in
work schedule. For work schedule changes that will affect the overall price, the contractor shall coordinate with the Contracting Officer for
approval.

1.5 Scope. The Maritime Expeditionary Security Facility located at the Army Reserve Readiness Center Building S-41 in Weldon Springs, MO 63304,
currently has neither telephone service nor a phone system.  A 4,200 ft. 1-1/4 in. HDPE conduit extending from the telephone service office at
the front gate to the facility has been buried, but no fiber has been installed in the conduit. The Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC)
has a requirement for:

    • Installing a 24 strand, single mode duct rated fiber optic in the conduit, extending the telephone demarcation from the area of the main
      gate to build S-41.
    • Providing service for, completing line provision of, and providing necessary equipment to allow for an ISP to be brought to the facility.
    • Providing service for necessary SIP Trunk lines to fulfill requirements herein.
    • Installing a new VoIP (Voice over IP) phone system at the facility to allow for VoIP service for 6 concurrent call paths to this building
      and engineer a complete service and system package.


The new phone system will be standalone system that will not be networked with any other existing data system.  This project will be implemented
using the facilities existing Cat-5 voice cable system.  This system shall comply with FCC Regulations and shall be compatible with Enhanced 911
services.  Each phone line shall report to the Public Safety Access Point (PSAP) the correct location of the facility being installed at. The
system will support 12 desk stations, 1 Operator Station, and 2 Wireless Handheld stations, 2 Conference room phones, 150 roaming users, 150
voicemail boxes, 4 analog extensions, and include at a minimum the following features:

    • Call Switching: Remote Extensions, auto Routing, call Forwarding (worldwide), Call Back, Call Bridge, call Transfer, call Queue, local and
      remote conference calling, call attendants, mode scheduling with holiday schedule and operating schedule, and Call Hold/Park/Pickup
    • IP and analog support: (including ring groups, auto fax detection, and alarm system log detection), supports both Analog and IP phones,
      provides  logging and user activity reports, support for 4 analog trunk lines and analog internal extensions, daytime and nighttime
      attendants modes as well as background music.
    • Power over Ethernet (PoE)
    • Voice Mail: This system shall be integrated with the phone system and have a minimum of 10 minutes of storage space for each assigned user
      and provide e-mail notification of new messages utilizing a Voice to Email method of delivery.
    • Paging: The system will be capable of paging through telephone equipment.
    • Procure, install, and test one (1) voice mail box for each user.  This system will have Dial-By-Name functionality and remote call access.
    • The phone system shall include necessary monitor, keyboard, mouse or other device(s) necessary for local operation and maintenance.
    • The phone and voice system shall be supported by its own rack-mounted UPS unit for power back up.  The UPS shall have capacity to power the
      phone system and all phones for 4 hours of operation.
    • The contractor shall be responsible for all cross connects and patch cords.  The contractor is also responsible to insure dial tone is
      carried through all cross connects, including patch cords, from the demarcation to the desk top telephone instrument. The contractor shall
      ensure that outlets at each desk are labeled.  Contractor is also responsible for properly labeling the ports on the patch panel so the
      match the voice ports in the private offices as well as the workstations.
    • A phone system administration terminal shall be rack mounted with sufficient shelving to support the terminal, keyboard, monitor, and
      printer.
    • The contractor shall include 1 year of technical support after installation/acceptance.  This will include any move, add, or change
      requests and instrument changes.
    • The contractor shall tone and test of each station cable.  Those cables not passing testing will require replacement.
    • Desk VoIP phones – Each desk phone shall be equivalent to the Cisco IP Phone 7965 or better, to include Headset, Mute, Speaker options and
      handle 6 lines.
    • Wireless VoIP Phone – Each Wireless handset shall be compatible with the phone system and access each of the 6 lines.
    • Conference Room Phones – Each conference room phone shall be equivalent to the Cisco 7936 (CP-7936G) Conference Phone or better, and shall
      be IP compatible utilizing PoE


The vendor may submit an alternate VoIP solution as long as that solution meets all the requirements of the phone system as listed in this PWS.
Please provide a possible solution and your approach to how you would provide VoIP service to this location to include what type phone system
you would install. That alternate solution will be evaluated by the Government to determine its acceptability. If determined unacceptable a
revised proposal may be requested in accordance with the system as outlined in the PWS.

Prior to beginning installation, an Installation Plan and Schedule shall be submitted by the Contractor no later than 15 days after award of
task order to the NOSC POC for review and acceptance.  The plan will provide the narrative, graphic and material requirement data necessary to
install the operational parts, components, equipment, subsystems or systems and detail plans for subcontracting.  All requirements to house and
support system’s dimensions, environmental and power requirements, layout of racks and frames shall be identified in the plan.   The plan shall
encompass a timeline and a detailed description of the proposed systems through the point of cutover.


The Contractor shall provide the NOSC POC a list of personnel performing the work as well as a list of materials to be used, inclusive of MSDS
if applicable.

One complete set of hardware documentation, including system manuals, system practices, system operation schematics, circuit descriptions,
project engineering and troubleshooting guides shall be provided to the NOSC POC.  Updated As-Built drawings, diagrams, and documentation shall
be provided to allow for cabling to be traced from service entrance to each telephone.  Documentation shall be delivered in hard copy format and
on CD.  Documentation shall include a system diagram in Microsoft Visio format.

Documentation shall be delivered in a binder in hard copy format and on CD.  The contractor shall provide the following documents:

      Technical specs
      Technical manuals
      Operator guides
      Complete hardware list
      Complete software list
      List of all IP numbers for all IP addressable equipment
      List of all ports/protocols used
      Warranty information
      Switch Schematics
Architecture diagram showing all devices and their locations (building and room numbers)


The contractor shall be responsible for a minimum warranty period of twelve (12) months (new parts and labor for switch, telephone sets and
voicemail systems) from the date of final acceptance.  In addition, the Contractor shall include any applicable manufacturer warranties.

Maintenance services provided by the Contractor shall ensure that, in the event of equipment failure or malfunction, the command will be
restored to service within one working day.  The Contractor shall follow the manufacturer’s approved procedures and specifications in restoring
the equipment to good operating order.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all travel time and expense of technicians needed to perform the
service regardless of the maintenance category or repair being provided.  However, the Contractor will not be liable for this equipment repair
if damage is due to a third party or Government employee abuse or neglect. Any travel shall be in accordance with the Federal Travel
Regulations.

All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the current applicable federal, state, and local regulations, ordinances, building
codes and standards.  These include, but are not limited to the following:


      ANSI/TIA/EIA – 606-A, Administration Standard for Telecommunications Infrastructure of Commercial Building
      National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA-70), National Electrical Code (NEC)


Receipt of all documentation, inspections, warranties, guarantees, registrations and/or assurances as required by this Statement of Work,
applicable ordinances, regulations, codes or manufacturer.  Completion of a walk through and inspection of all areas by the Contractor and the
designated NOSC representative listing all deficiencies.  The contractor shall correct all deficiencies within five (5) working days after
receipt of the list from the Government.  Workmanship – professional installation of all materials, including neat and orderly routing of cables
and machine-generating labeling.  Dial tone to each outlet and setup of each voice message mailbox.


1.6 Training. The contractor shall conduct scheduled phone system User, Attendant, and Administrator training seminars at the installation site
prior to, or at cutover.  Training documentation shall be provided to the NOSC POC prior to scheduled training.

User training should provide demonstration of basic operation of the phones.  Attendant training shall include demonstration of advanced
operations.  Attendant training shall emphasize common features such as Call Transfer, Call Forward, Call Park, 3 Way Conferencing, and Group
Call Pickup, Paging, and Hold.  Administrator training shall include advanced features such as resetting a mailbox, setting up and maintaining a
call tree, rebooting the phone system and voice mail system, and performing moves, adds, and changes.

1.7 Maintenance services. The contractor shall be responsible for a minimum warranty period of twelve (12) months (new parts and labor for
switch, telephone sets and voicemail systems) from the date of final acceptance.  In addition, the Contractor shall include any applicable
manufacturer warranties.

Maintenance services provided by the Contractor shall ensure that, in the event of equipment failure or malfunction, the command will be
restored to service within one working day.  The Contractor shall follow the manufacturer’s approved procedures and specifications in restoring
the equipment to good operating order.  The Contractor shall be responsible for all travel time and expense of technicians needed to perform the
service regardless of the maintenance category or repair being provided.  However, the Contractor will not be liable for this equipment repair
if damage is due to a third party or Government employee abuse or neglect.

1.8 Applicable Standards. All materials and workmanship shall be in accordance with the current applicable federal, state, and local
regulations, ordinances, building codes and standards.  The following standard documents are part of this PWS and are mandatory for use:

      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 526-14, Optical Power Loss Measurement of Installed Multimode Fiber Cable Plant – OFSTP-14
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 568-B.1, Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard Part 1: General Requirements
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 568-B.2, Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard Part 2: Balanced Twisted-Pair Cabling Components
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 568-B.3, Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard Part 3: Optical Fiber Cabling Components
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 598, Optical Fiber Cable Color Coding
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 606-A, Administration Standard for Telecommunications Infrastructure of Commercial Building
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 607, Commercial Building Grounding and Bonding Requirements for Telecommunications
      o ANSI/TIA/EIA – 758, Customer-Owned Outside Plant Telecommunications Cabling Standard
      o National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA-70), National Electrical Code (NEC) NEMA 250
      o National Electrical Code (NEC) Articles 770 and 800
      o NECA/BICSI 568-2006, Installing Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling




1.9 Safety standards.


      o National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) (IEEE C 2)

1.10 Contractor personnel. The contractor must provide a project manager (PM) who must be responsible for the performance of the work. The name,
address, phone number and email address of this person, and an alternate(s), who must act for the contractor when the manager is absent, must be
designated in writing to the contracting officer.

The project manager or alternate(s) must have full authority to act for the contractor on all matters relating to daily operation of this task.

The contract manager and alternate(s) must be able to fluently read, write, speak, and understand English.

The Contractor shall state in its response the number of personnel and the period of time it expects its personnel to be on site for the
completion of this task.  Contractor personnel must present a neat, business appropriate appearance and be easily recognized as contractor
employees.

The contractor personnel must adhere to identification requirements for the site (i.e. access badges). Contractor personnel that are working at
the construction site must adhere to all safety requirements of a construction contractor.

The contractor must ensure that employees have current and valid professional certifications or licenses for the work they perform on this
contract.

The contractor must not employ any person who is an employee of the U.S. Government if employing that person would create a conflict of
interest.

Subject to existing law, regulations and other provisions of this task, the contractor shall not employ undocumented aliens to work on, or with
this task.  The Contractor shall ensure that this provision is incorporated into any and all subcontracts or subordinate agreements issued in
support of this task.

1.19 Place of Performance
Maritime Expeditionary Security Facility
Army Reserve Readiness Center
Building S-41
Weldon Springs, MO 63304

1.20 Points of Contact.

Navy/Point of Contact (POC)
ITC Vernon Gerdel
314-676-6201 work
314-375-6201 cell

Contracting Officer Representative (COR)
Ken Melvin
1222 Spruce St
Room 8.104A
St. Louis, MO
314-539-3909
ken.melvin@gsa.gov

Contracting Officer (CO)
Shellie Heislen
1500 E. Bannister Rd
Room BOE 4.5
Kansas City, MO 64131
816-823-2683
shellie.heislen@gsa.gov

1.21 Contracting Officer Representative (COR).  The COR will be identified by separate letter.  The COR monitors all technical aspects of the
contract and assists in contract administration The COR is authorized to perform the following functions: assure that the Contractor performs
the technical requirements of the contract: perform inspections necessary in connection with contract performance: maintain written and oral
communications with the Contractor concerning technical aspects of the contract: issue written interpretations of technical requirements,
including Government drawings, designs, specifications: monitor Contractor's performance and notifies both the Contracting Officer and
Contractor of any deficiencies; coordinate availability of government furnished property, and provide site entry of Contractor personnel.  A
letter of designation issued to the COR, a copy of which is sent to the Contractor, states the responsibilities and limitations of the COR,
especially with regard to changes in cost or price, estimates or changes in delivery dates.  The COR is not authorized to change any of the
terms and conditions of the resulting order.

1.22 Best pricing. The vendor receiving an award under this contract certifies that the pricing provided is their best pricing available;
including commercial customers and Government agencies.  In order to retain the best pricing, the vendor agrees to notify the Contracting
Officer if their commercial and/or Government pricing is reduced so that the contract pricing can also be reduced accordingly. This requirement
shall remain in effect for the duration of the contract inclusive of any exercised options.  Any contracts already in existence at the time of
contract award shall be excluded from this requirement.

1.23 CCR/ORCA registrations. The vendor receiving a contract award as a result of this solicitation agrees to maintain their CCR (Central
Contractor Registration) and ORCA (On-Line Registrations and Certifications Application) registrations for the life of the contract including
any required annual/periodic updates or validations.  They also agree to cooperate fully with any administrative requirements including closeout
issues at the end of the contract.

      • Central Contractor Registration (CCR) is the primary Government repository for contractor information required for the conduct of
        business with the Government. The CCR database is located at http://www.ccr.gov/ and the CCR data will populate other Government
        applications with the contractor’s information. In CCR, contractors shall assign themselves a Marketing Partner Identification Number
        (MPIN), which they will use to gain access to the BPN network applications.
      • The Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) is part of the Business Partner Network (BPN). ORCA is the primary
        Government repository for contractor submitted representations and certifications required for the conduct of business with the
        Government. Contractors are required to use ORCA as a part of the proposal submission process for this solicitation and thus must
        complete and/or update their ORCA registration. ORCA is located at http://orca.bpn.gov/. Prior to accessing ORCA, contractors shall
        first register through the CCR database. Contractors shall maintain and update CCR and ORCA in accordance with FAR clauses 52.204-7 and
        52.204-8.

1.24 REHABILITATION ACT 508 Compliance. The contractor shall support the Government in its compliance with Section 508 throughout the
development and implementation of the work to be performed. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d) requires
that when developing, procuring, maintaining, or using electronic and information technology, each Federal department or agency ensure, unless
an undue burden would be imposed on the department or agency, that the electronic and information technology allows, regardless of the type of
medium of the technology – individuals with disabilities who are Federal employees to have access to and use information and data that is
comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and individuals
with disabilities who are members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal department or agency to have access to and use of
information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of the information and data by such members of the public who are not
individuals with disabilities.

The contractor shall indicate for each line item whether each product or service is compliant or noncompliant with the accessibility standards
at 36 CFR 1194. Further, the proposal must indicate where full details or compliance can be found (e.g., vendor's website or other location).
Applicable Standard will be 1194.23 Telecommunication products. The contractor shall review the following websites for additional 508
information: http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Centent&ID=12 http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm
http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources

1.25 Request for information/questions on solicitation. Written requests for information or explanation regarding the solicitation should be
directed to Shellie Heislen, Contracting Officer, at shellie.heislen@gsa.gov. Please make sure to include your name, phone number and
solicitation number along with your question. All questions will need to be submitted no later than January 18, 2012. Questions submitted after
this date may not be answered.

                                                              ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION

2.0 Performance Standards. The contractor’s performance shall be measured based on the performance matrix shown below. For all requirements
listed, the Standard Criteria for Acceptance shall be meeting the specifications and standards as set forth in this PWS.

|Section       |Deliverable           |Description                                  |Deliver                      |Impact                         |
|3.0           |System and Equipment  |Install PBX and all associated hardware and  |In accordance with vendor    |Unsatisfactory –               |
|              |Installation          |software                                     |provided, Government accepted|No Payment until corrected and |
|              |                      |                                             |schedule.                    |accepted by the Government.    |
|3.0           |Testing               |Test PBX and assoc. equipment to confirm all |To be done at time of        |Unsatisfactory - No Payment    |
|              |                      |hardware and software is configured as       |installation.                |until corrected and accepted by|
|              |                      |designed, installed and working correctly.   |                             |the Government.                |
|4.0           |Installation  Plan    |Official Implementation Schedule to include  |With award                   |Unsatisfactory - Work cannot   |
|              |                      |Timeline, draft Configuration and Design     |                             |continue.                      |
|              |                      |Sheets.                                      |                             |                               |
|4.0           |As-Built              |Provide Documentation and Drawings along with|Within 5 days of project     |Unsatisfactory –               |
|              |                      |Acceptance Summary Report and Billing Detail |completion.                  |No Payment until corrected and |
|              |                      |for customer acceptance and Invoicing of     |                             |accepted by the Government.    |
|              |                      |installed system.                            |                             |                               |
|4.0           |Requirements          |Equipment and Design Sheets                  |To be done prior to start of |Unsatisfactory - Work cannot   |
|              |                      |                                             |project installation         |continue.                      |
|10.0          |Training              |Admin, User, and System Training             |To be done at time of        |Unsatisfactory - No Payment    |
|              |                      |                                             |installation this has yet to |until corrected and accepted by|
|              |                      |                                             |be determined.               |the Government.                |
|11.0          |Audit                 |Audit with NOSC all hardware and software is |To be done at time of        |Unsatisfactory - No Payment    |
|              |                      |installed, configured as designed, and       |installation this has yet to |until corrected and accepted by|
|              |                      |working correctly.                           |be determined.               |the Government.                |

2.1 Site Surveys. The Contractor is highly encouraged to participate in a site survey prior to submission of offer.  Site survey request shall
be made through the NOSC representative and GSA Representative.

2.2 Contract modifications. The Government reserves the right to make contract modifications during the life of this contract. Any contract
modification requests from the vendor must be addressed with the GSA/FAS Contracting Officer.

2.3 GSA Fee. GSA 8% contract administration fees.

      • The GSA Contract Administration Fee is 8% and shall be applied to the total value of the contract.


      • The GSA Contract Administration Fee may be revised by the Government. This GSA administration fee is a pass through from the ordering
        activity to GSA and is not part of the vendor’s pricing.


      • The GSA Contract Administration Fee is to be remitted to GSA on a quarterly basis to the Contracting Officer at:


        Shellie Heislen
        GSA/FAS/6QTC
        1500 E. Bannister Rd.
        Room BOE 4.5
        Kansas City, MO 64131
        shellie.heislen@gsa.gov


2.4 GSA Electronic Invoicing.  All invoicing will be done electronically.  Password and electronic invoice access may be obtained through the
GSA Finance website at www.finance.gsa.gov.


Billing and payment shall be accomplished in accordance with clause 52.212-4.  The contractor shall have the invoice certified by the
Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) prior to submission.  Fixed price payments will be in accordance with the approved payment schedule.
A copy of the Government’s document (receiving report) accepting the covered services must accompany invoices submitted for payment.  Failure to
comply with the procedures outlined above may result in your payment being delayed.

In addition to the requirements for a proper invoice specified in this contract or order, a GSA Form 1142, Release of Claims, must be submitted
with the final invoice. With submission of the Release of Claims the Contractor releases all claims against the Government relating to this
contract.  It shall state “NONE” unless the contractor has claims in stated amounts that are specifically accepted by the Contractor from the
release. If a properly completed Release of Claims is not provided with the Contractor’s final invoice the Government will return the invoice to
the contractor, within seven days after its receipt, without action. A release may also be required of the assignee if the Contractor’s claim to
amounts payable under this contract has been assigned under the Assignment of Claims Act of 1940 (31 U.S.C. 3727 and 41 U.S.C. 15).

2.5 Final Payment.  The Government shall pay the amount due the Contractor under this contract after:

1.  Completion and acceptance of invoiced work;
2.  Presentation of a properly executed invoice; and
3.  Presentation of a properly executed release of claims.

2.6 Definition of Terms:
Automatic Route Selection - Automatically route specified outgoing call types through
specific phone lines.
Call Bridge - ability to originate call from PBX location regardless of callers location.
Call Forwarding - Manual or automatic forwarding to any local or remote extension, to a ring group, or voice mailbox.
Call Transfer - Transfer calls to local or remote extensions, ring groups, or voicemail.
Conference Call - Connect more than 2 parties on one phone.
IP – Internet Protocol
ISP – Internet Service Provider
Mode Scheduling - Handle incoming calls based on time-of-day/week.
Remote Extensions – The ability to use phones that are located anywhere the unit may be to access the primary location, bidirectional as a
function of the system.
Ring Groups – Configuration of any group of phones to ring when directed to by call
switch, including the ability to forward and transfer calls to such groups.
SIP - Session Initiation Protocol - an Application Layer protocol, independent of the Transport Layer, it can run via an ISP utilizing TCP, UDP
or SCTP.
SCTP – Stream Control Transmission Protocol
TCP – Transmission Control Protocol
Toll Restriction - Prevent unauthorized long-distance calling without having the ability for the user to bypass system over any analog line,
directing such calls over VoIP.
UDP – User Datagram Protocol
VoIP Capable - Place long-distance calls over the Internet and access third party VoIP
services.
Voicemail to Email - User E-mail notification is pushed upon receipt of voicemail, with
the ability to have the actual message attached as an audio file.

                                                                 PROPOSAL SECTION

3.0 Proposal Submission: Technical, past performance, certifications and price proposals shall be submitted by the contractor to the GSA
Contracting Officer via email at shellie.heislen@gsa.gov. Proposals are due January 20, 2012 at 3:00 pm CST. Proposals shall be submitted in
three (3) sections, one labeled Technical Proposal, one labeled Past Performance and one labeled Price Proposal. No price information is to be
included in the technical file.

                                          Please mark the subject line of the proposal submission email:
                                                 PROPOSAL FOR DKNZ12KM001S, DUE January 20, 2012

      Submission should include:
         • A signed SF1449
         • Completed and signed, Representations and Certifications- FAR 52.212-3,
         • Technical Proposal
         • Past performance references
         • Certifications
         • Pricing
         • A primary and alternate(s) contact including mailing address, phone numbers, fax number, and e-mail address.

3.1 Technical Proposal: Each offeror’s technical approach will be evaluated in terms of the knowledge/understanding that is demonstrated with
regards to the requirements and/or performance objectives, as well as the reasonableness and soundness of the offeror’s approach.

The Technical Proposal should consist of:

A brief summary describing the vendor’s company, a brief description of commercial services the company provides (if different from the
Government services offered), a description of the equipment offered (to include equipment type, manufacturer, model numbers), a description of
the maintenance, monitoring and diagnostics provided by the vendor, etc. and a primary and alternate(s) vendor contact including mailing
address, phone number, fax number and email address.

The description of the equipment and services proposed in the technical solution shall include the following:

    • Installation of 24 strand, single mode duct rated fiber optic in conduit, from demarcation to building S-41
    • Provide service for, provision of and equipment for ISP
    • Service for SIP Trunk lines
    • Voice Communication System; Hardware and Installation
    • Telephone Instruments; Hardware and Installation
    • Voice Messaging System (VMS); Hardware and Installation
    • Installation (replacement of all horizontal cables with new cat 5e cables); Hardware and Installation
    • Training/ Support; Material and Labor
    •
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o


    • Battery Back Up (UPS) for entire communication systems; Hardware and Installation

The technicians proposed to be utilized for fulfilling this requirement shall demonstrate training and experience which qualifies them for
performing the task.

The proposal is limited to twenty-five pages, 10 or 13 point font, 1” to 1 ½ “ margins. If double-sided pages are submitted, each side counts as
one page.

Offerors are encouraged to submit information and material normally submitted to commercial customers.

3.1.1 Technical Approach: The offeror’s technical approach should unmistakably explain how the offeror will successfully fulfill the performance
requirements. It should clearly describe the operational activities and/or processes it will undertake – in accordance with the applicable
performance standards and in a manner that will produce the applicable performance results.

3.2 Past Performance: The vendor shall submit a minimum of three (3) representations of work performed of similar size and/or scope and
performed within the past twelve (12) months. The past performance representations may include Federal, State, or Local government and/or
private customers for efforts similar to the Government requirement. Also provide a description of the work that was performed, discussion of
past performance problems, if any, problems encountered on the identified contracts and corrective actions taken to resolve these problems. The
information provided should be sufficient to demonstrate the relevance of the previous work scope.

If three representations cannot be provided, the offeror must provide justification as to why the three representations cannot be provided to
meet the acceptable criteria.

Representations must include the following information, verified for accuracy:

    • Name of contracting activity/client
    • Contract number and task/delivery order number, if applicable
    • Contract type
    • Total contract value
    • Description of work preformed
    • Name of contracting officer, telephone and fax numbers, and email address
    • Name of government program manager, telephone and fax numbers, and email address
    • Name of subcontractors
    • Performance dates

Evaluators may consider performance on contracts which are not submitted by the offeror if they have knowledge of contracts not listed or if
contracts are discovered that were not listed. In addition, the Government will use available information in the Past Performance Information
Retrieval System (PPIRS).

3.3 Certifications: Offeror is to provide proof of BICSI certification and/or switch manufacturer certification if the certifications are
referenced in the proposal.

3.4 Price Proposal: The vendor shall provide all inclusive pricing for the requested services outlined in the Performance Work Statement (PWS).

The Offeror’s proposal shall include a pricing for the following:

    • Installation of 24 strand, single mode duct rated fiber optic in conduit, from demarcation to building S-41
    • Provide service for, provision of and equipment for ISP
    • Service for SIP Trunk lines
    • Voice Communication System; Hardware and Installation plus total price
    • Telephone Instruments; Hardware and Installation plus total price
    • Voice Messaging System (VMS); Hardware and Installation plus total price
    • Installation (replacement of all horizontal cables with new Cat 5e cables; Hardware and Installation plus total price
    • Training/ Support; Material and Labor
    •
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
    o
        plus total price
    • Battery Back Up (UPS) for entire communication systems; Hardware and Installation plus total price

Offerors shall provide pricing for 14 months (60 business days of installation/testing/training and 12 months warranty/maintenance) as outlined
above.

3.4.1 Discounts in pricing proposal: In an effort to receive the highest quality solution at the lowest possible price the Government requests
all available discounts on all products and services offered for this requirement. Offerors are encouraged to offer discounts below commercial
contract and/or open market rates. The Pricing Matrix, Attachment A, should identify the lowest commercial contract and/or open market price and
the discount percentage offered the Government for each item offered.

3.5 Clause

52.212-1  Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Items (June 2008)
  (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size
standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a
concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
  (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in
this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum,
offers must show—
    (1) The solicitation number;
    (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers;
    (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror;
    (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation.
This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary;
    (5) Terms of any express warranty;
    (6) Price and any discount terms;
    (7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address;
    (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and
certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically);
    (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments;
    (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar
items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and
    (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and
provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions
of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration.
  (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for
receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.
  (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of
offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the
sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing.
  (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for
satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.
  (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers.
    (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office
designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is
4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due.
    (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after
the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting
Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and—
        (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of
entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or
        (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and
was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or
        (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received.
      (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be
considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.
    (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on
the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government
personnel.
    (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office
designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the
solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the
same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.
    (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response
to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received
at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile
offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers,
the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer.
  (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions
with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However,
the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may
reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor
irregularities in offers received.
  (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific
limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government
reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror
specifies otherwise in the offer.
  (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. 
    (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications,
standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to—

  GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
  Suite 8100
  470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
  Washington, DC 20407


  Telephone (202) 619-8925
  Facsimile (202) 619-8978.

      (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a
single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by
submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee.
    (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites:
      (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil).
      (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch).
      (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com).
    (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by—
      (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard);
      (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or
      (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179,
Facsimile (215) 697-1462.
    (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or
maintenance.
  (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation
requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its
name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the
offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to
establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same
concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United
States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside
the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a
Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.
  (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges
the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment
of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the
Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain
information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-
5757.
  (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if
applicable:
    (1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer.
    (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on
the debriefed offeror.
    (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.
    (4) A summary of the rationale for award;
    (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror.
    (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the
solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.


                                                                EVALUATION SECTION


4.0 Proposal Evaluation: The Contractor shall meet the minimum mandatory requirements of this PWS.

4.1 Contract awards. The Government will award a contract, resulting from this solicitation, to the responsible offeror whose offer, conforming
to the requirements of the solicitation, will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other related factors considered.

The Government will evaluate proposals based on conformance factors for a Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA) award as required by this
solicitation.  Past performance will be considered as a technical evaluation factor.  Unacceptable technical solutions, poor past performance,
or unreasonable prices may deem the offer unacceptable. Certifications, Technical and Past Performance will be evaluated by the Source Selection
Evaluation Board (SSEB) to assess the offeror’s compliance with the SOW.

4.2 Award without discussions. Award can be made without discussions at the Government’s prerogative. However, the Government reserves the right
to open discussions. If discussions are held a final proposal revision will subsequently be requested.

4.3 Evaluation. The offeror’s proposal will be evaluated with regard to its ability to meet the requirements set forth in the Performance Work
Statement (PWS).

4.3.1 Non-price related factors. The Government will evaluate proposals based on the following non-price related factors:

Technical Approach
Past Performance
Certifications

4.3.1.1 Technical Approach. Technical approach will be evaluated for an understanding of all performance requirements, to include a description
of the vendor’s proposed technical approach in order to provide the required products and services and is complete in accordance with the
submission requirements in 3.1 above.

4.3.1.1.1 Technical Solution – Proposals shall clearly describe in technical detail their ability to comply with each part and/or sub-part of
this PWS.  A statement of compliance without the detailed description of how compliance will be met will not be considered sufficient evidence
that the services offered can technically meet the requirements.

4.3.1.1.2  Past Performance - Past performance will be evaluated on all offerors. Past performance information must be complete in accordance
with the submission requirements in 3.2 above.

The offerors’ past performance will be evaluated on the following factors: 1) Quality (to include excellence of performance and other examples
that demonstrate the offeror’s ability to implement solutions that have rectified existing problems or concerns); 2) Currency (to include the
project month/year –begin/end dates); 3) Applicability (such as similarity of work, project scope, size, project value and complexity) of past
performance as it related to the requirements. The Government will consider in its evaluation the relevance and similarity of the offeror’s past
performance information, the offeror’s written discussion of past performance problems, and the corrective actions taken to resolve those
problems. The Government may use knowledge gained by other sources not provided by the offeror, such as contracts not listed. In addition, the
Government will use available information in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS).

4.3.1.2 Certifications.

Technicians with BICSI certifications are preferred and certifications issued by the switch manufacturer are preferred.

4.3.2 Price. Price proposals will be evaluated to determination that the prices are fair and reasonable.

4.4 Clause


52.212-2  Evaluation—Commercial Items (Jan 1999)

  (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation
will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:
  Technical Approach
  Past Performance
  Certifications
  Price
Award will be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated price of proposals meeting or exceeding the acceptability standards for non-price
factors.
   (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic
requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options
shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).
  (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance
specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time,
the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of
withdrawal is received before award.

                                                                  CLAUSE SECTION


52.212-3  Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items (Apr 2011)


An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications
      electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the
      ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision.

  (a) Definitions. As used in this provision—
  “Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly
and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of
the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small
business eligible under the WOSB Program.
  “Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service—
    (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not
offer himself voluntarily; or
    (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.
  “Inverted domestic corporation” means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b),
i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated
in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in
6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c).
  “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except—
    (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;
    (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;
    (3) FSG 88, Live Animals;
    (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;
    (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;
    (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;
    (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;
    (8) FSC 9610, Ores;
    (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and
    (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.
  “Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials
into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not
the place of manufacture.
  “Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities,
oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of
2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2
of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—
    (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;
    (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;
    (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
    (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;
    (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
    (6) Have been voluntarily suspended.
  “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
    (1) Means a small business concern—
      (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not
less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
      (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
    (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in
38 U.S.C. 101(16).
  “Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size
standards in this solicitation.
  “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
    (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
  “Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by
one or more women.
  “Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
    (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
of which is owned by one or more women; and
    (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
  “Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business
concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are
controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States.
  (b)
    (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically
change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website.
    (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After
reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently
posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12
months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code
referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for
paragraphs ______________.
  [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this
solicitation only, if any.
  These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the
date of this offer.
  Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and
certifications posted on ORCA.]
  (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying
areas. Check all that apply.
    (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a small business concern.
    (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
    (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business
concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a service-disabled veteran-
owned small business concern.
    (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it * is, * is not a small disadvantaged business concern as
defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
    (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern.
  Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
    (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in
paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that—
      (i) It * is, * is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and
no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and
      (ii) It * is, * is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph
(c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror
shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern
participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.
    (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB
concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that—
      (i) It * is, * is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository,
and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and
      (ii) It * is, * is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph
(c)(7)(ii) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror
shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern
participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.
    (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did
not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned
business concern.
    (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor
surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more
than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________
    (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged
Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror
desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.]
      (i) General. The offeror represents that either—
        (A) It * is, * is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the
date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by
the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and,
where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the
certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or
        (B) It * has, * has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as
a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no
material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.
      (ii) *Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of
its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in
paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The
offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]
    (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that—
      (i) It * is, * is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small
Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or
HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and
      (ii) It * is, * is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph
(c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall
enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small
business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.
  (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246—
    (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It * has, * has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation;
and
      (ii) It * has, * has not filed all required compliance reports.
    (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that—
      (i) It * has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs
required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or
      (ii) It * has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of
the Secretary of Labor.
  (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant
contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to
this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the
name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
  (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is
included in this solicitation.)
    (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and
that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside
the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as
domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of
“domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,”
“foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”
    (2) Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
  (g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free
Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a
domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced,
or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-
shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade
Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American
Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.”
      (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan,
Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade
Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this
provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall
list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an
end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”
  Other Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
    (2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled
  “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian End Products:
|Line Item No.                                                         |
|_______________________________________                               |
|_______________________________________                               |
|_______________________________________                               |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:
    (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of
  this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:
  Canadian or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

    (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)
      (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or
designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.”
      (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.
  Other End Products:
|Line Item No.            |Country of Origin              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |
|______________           |_________________              |


                                                               [List as necessary]

      (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO
GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American
Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer
determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the
solicitation.
  (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its
principals—
    (1) * Are, * are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal
agency;
    (2) * Have, * have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for:
commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government
contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement,
theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or
receiving stolen property;
    (3) * Are, * are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of
these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and
    (4) * Have, * have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that
exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
      (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
        (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally
determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is
not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.
        (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full
payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
      (ii) Examples.
        (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review
of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review,
this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
        (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice
under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal
to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the
underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is
not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised
all judicial appeal rights.
        (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in
full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.
        (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under
11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
  (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in
paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]
    (1) Listed end products.
|Listed End Product                |Listed Countries of Origin               |
|___________________               |___________________                      |
|___________________               |___________________                      |


    (2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision,
then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]
      [  ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured
in the corresponding country as listed for that product.
      [  ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in
the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or
indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those
efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.
  (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly—
    (1) * In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds
the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or
    (2) * Outside the United States.
  (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.)
[The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]
    [  ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror * does * does not certify
that—
      (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or
traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of
normal business operations;
      (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and
      (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as
that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.
    [  ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that—
      (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or
subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;

      (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(d)(2)(iii));
      (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly
average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract
period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
      (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used
for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.
    (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—
      (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service
Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and
      (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.
  (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)
    (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection
requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued
by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
    (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the
Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN
provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN.
    (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
      o  TIN: ________________________________.
      o  TIN has been applied for.
      o  TIN is not required because:
      o  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United
States;
      o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;
      o  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
    (4) Type of organization.
      o  Sole proprietorship;
      o  Partnership;
      o  Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);
      o  Corporate entity (tax-exempt);
      o  Government entity (Federal, State, or local);
      o  Foreign government;
      o  International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;
      o  Other ________________________________.
    (5) Common parent.
      o  Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;
      o  Name and TIN of common parent:
        Name ________________________________.
        TIN _________________________________.
  (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted
business operations in Sudan.
  (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations.
    (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. A foreign entity that is treated as an inverted domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal
Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874 (or would be except that the inversion transactions were completed on or before March 4, 2003), is also an
inverted domestic corporation for purposes of 6 U.S.C. 395 and for this solicitation provision (see FAR 9.108).
    (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that it is not an inverted domestic corporation and is not a
subsidiary of one.
  (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran.
    (1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the
offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may
be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996.
    (2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if—
      (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and
      (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.



52.212-4  Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Items (JUNE 2010)

  (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The
Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require
repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If
repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or
adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights—
    (1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and
    (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.
  (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a
bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act
(31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not
assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.
  (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.
  (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this
contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be
a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor
shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.
  (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.
  (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control
of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign
or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable
delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly
give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.
  (g) Invoice.
    (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the
contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include—
      (i) Name and address of the Contractor;
      (ii) Invoice date and number;
      (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;
      (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;
      (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of
lading;
      (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;
      (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;
      (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and
      (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

      (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.
        (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.
        (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor
shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33,
Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central
Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures.
        (C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.
  (2) The due date for making invoice payments by the designated payment office is the later of the following two events:
      (i) The 10th day after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from the Contractor. If the designated billing office fails
to annotate the invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date shall be the 10th day after the date of
the Contractor’s invoice; provided the Contractor submitted a proper invoice and no disagreement exists over quantity, quality, or Contractor
compliance with contract requirements.
      (ii) The 10th day after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed by the Contractor.
   (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs,
for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or
copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.
  (i) Payment.—
    (1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set
forth in this contract.
    (2) Prompt payment. The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment
regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315.
    (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.
    (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose
of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified
payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.
    (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise
overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall—
      (i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the—
        (A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment);
        (B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable;
        (C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and
        (D) Contractor point of contact.
      (ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer.
    (6) Interest.
      (i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due
until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury
as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount
becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until
the amount is paid.
      (ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract.
      (iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if—
        (A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days;
        (B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand
for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or
        (C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see 32.607-2).
      (iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the
same due date as the original demand for payment.
      (v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates:
        (A) The date fixed under this contract.
        (B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination.
      (vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on—
        (A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor;
        (B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit
against the contract debt; or
        (C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor.
      (vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.
  (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract
shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:
    (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or
    (2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.
  (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.
  (l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its
sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and
all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the
contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor
shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give
the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which
reasonably could have been avoided.
  (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the
Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with
adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any
amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided
by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination
for convenience.
  (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon
acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.
  (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular
purpose described in this contract.
  (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for
consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.
  (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations
applicable to its performance under this contract.
  (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use
of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq.,
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to
whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity.
  (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
    (1) The schedule of supplies/services.
    (2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts paragraphs of
this clause.
    (3) The clause at 52.212-5.
    (4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software.
    (5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation.
    (6) Other paragraphs of this clause.
    (7) The Standard Form 1449.
    (8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments.
    (9) The specification.
  (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR).
    (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any
contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance
on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review
and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is
current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute
for a properly executed contractual document.
    (2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the
contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation
and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business
day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and
(C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer.
  The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name.
      (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at
paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that
shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning
of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract.
    (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an
assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR
database. Information provided to the Contractor’s CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient
other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT
clause of this contract.
    (4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at
http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.



52.212-5  Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (APR 2011)

  (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by
reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
    (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
    (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).
    (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).
  (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:
    __ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and
10 U.S.C. 2402).
    __ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
    __ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-
5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)
    X  (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
    __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).
    X  (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment
(DEC 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially
available off-the-shelf items).
    __ (7) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (8) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).
    __ (9) [Reserved]
    __ (10)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6.
    __ (11)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.
    __ (12) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).
    __ (13)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
      __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.
      __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9.
    __ (14) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).
    __ (15) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).
    __ (16)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.
    __ (17) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355,
section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (18) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102,
and 10 U.S.C. 2323).
    __ (19) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f).
    __ (20)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).
    __ (21) 52.219-29 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011).
    __ (22) 52.219-30 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011).
    X  (23) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).
    X  (24) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126).
    X  (25) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).
    X  (26) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
    __ (27) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).
    __ (28) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).
    __ (29) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).
    X  (30) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496).
    __ (31) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of
commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)
    __ (32)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)
      __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-
shelf items.)
    __ (33) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).
    __ (34)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.
    X  (35) 52.223-18, Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Sep 2010) (E.O. 13513).
    __ (36) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).
    X  (37)(i)  52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C.
2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
      X  (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3.
    __ (38) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Aug 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).
    X  (39) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).
    __ (40) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (41) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).
    __ (42) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    __ (43) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).
    X  (44) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (45) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    __ (46) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).
    X  (47) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).
    __ (48)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).
      __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.
  (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items:
    __ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009)
(29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
    __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).
    __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
    __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).
    __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).
  (d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records—Negotiation.
    (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right
to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.
    (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the
disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such
appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.
    (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.
  (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—
      (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).
      (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for
construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting
opportunities.
      (iii) [Reserved]
      (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).
      (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).
      (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).
      (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in
accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.
      (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
  ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
      (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).
      (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).
      (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jan 2009).
      (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance
with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.
      (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow
down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.
    (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary
to satisfy its contractual obligations.



52.204-9  Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (JAN 2011)

   (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland
Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing
Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201.
  (b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with
performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following,
unless otherwise determined by the Government:
    (1) When no longer needed for contract performance.
    (2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee’s employment.
    (3) Upon contract completion or termination.
  (c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements.
  (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s
employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled
information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance
with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.


52.217-8 Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.



52.225-25  Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran—Certification (Sep 2010)

  (a) Definition.
  “Person”—
    (1) Means—
      (i) A natural person;
      (ii) A corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any
other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, and any governmental entity operating as a business
enterprise; and
      (iii) Any successor to any entity described in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definiation; and
    (2) Does not include a government or governmental entity that is not operating as a business enterprise.
  (b) Certification. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this provision or if a waiver has been granted in accordance with FAR 25.703-2(d), by
submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any
activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. These sanctioned activities are in the areas of
development of the petroleum resources of Iran, production of refined petroleum products in Iran, sale and provision of refined petroleum
products to Iran, and contributing to Iran’s ability to acquire or develop certain weapons.
  (c) Exception for trade agreements. The certification requirement of paragraph (b) of this provision does not apply if—
    (1) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.225-4, 52.225-11 or comparable agency provision); and
    (2) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products or designated country
construction material.



52.246-1  Contractor Inspection Requirements (APR 1984)

  The Contractor is responsible for performing or having performed all inspections and tests necessary to substantiate that the supplies or
services furnished under this contract conform to contract requirements, including any applicable technical requirements for specified
manufacturers’ parts. This clause takes precedence over any Government inspection and testing required in the contract’s specifications, except
for specialized inspections or tests specified to be performed solely by the Government.


552.212-71  Contract Terms and Conditions Applicable to GSA Acquisition of Commercial Items (JUL 2003)


The Contractor agrees to comply with any provision or clause that is incorporated herein by reference to implement agency policy applicable to
      acquisition of commercial items

or components. The provision or clause in effect based on the applicable regulation cited on the date the solicitation is issued applies unless
otherwise stated herein. The following provisions and clauses are incorporated by reference:
     (a) Provisions.
|      552.237-70       |Qualifications of Offerors           |


    (b) Clauses.
|      552.203-71       |Restriction on Advertising                                                                        |
|  _   552.211-73       |Marking                                                                                           |
|      552.215-70       |Examination of Records by GSA                                                                     |
|      552.215-71       |Examination of Records by GSA (Multiple Award Schedule)                                           |
|      552.215-72       |Price Adjustment—Failure to Provide Accurate Information                                          |
|      552.219-70       |Allocation of Orders—Partially Set-Aside Items                                                    |
|      552.228-70       |Workers’ Compensation Laws                                                                        |
|X   552.229-70         |Federal, State, and Local Taxes                                                                   |
|X   552.232-8          |Discounts for Prompt Payment                                                                      |
|      552.232-23       |Assignment of Claims                                                                              |
|      552.232-71       |Adjusting Payments                                                                                |
|      552.232-72       |Final Payment                                                                                     |
|      552.232-73       |Availability of Funds                                                                             |
|      552.232-78       |Payment Information                                                                               |
|      552.237-71       |Qualifications of Employees                                                                       |
|      552.238-71       |Submission and Distribution of Authorized FSS Schedule Price List                                 |
|      552.238-74       |Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting                                                        |
|      552.238-75       |Price Reductions                                                                                  |
|      552.242-70       |Status Report of Orders and Shipments                                                             |
|      552.243-72       |Modifications (Multiple Award Schedule)                                                           |
|      552.246-73       |Warranty—Multiple Award Schedule                                                                  |
|      552.246-76       |Warranty of Pesticides                                                                            |
                                                                    APPENDIX A


                                                              VENDOR PRICING MATRIX
                                                                   DKNZ12KM001S



   |Vendor Pricing Matrix                                                                                                                                      |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|(Vendors are encouraged to use this format to submit their pricing)                                                                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|Notes:                                                                                                                                                     |
|Vendors shall fill out all inclusive prices for all products and services they offer.                                                                      |
|Vendors are encouraged to offer discounts greater than those offered to their commercial customers.                                                        |
|Vendor Information                                                                                                                                         |
|Vendor name:                                        |Address:                                                     |Contact Name:                            |
|Phone number:                                       |Fax number:                                                  |Email:                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|Product or Service Offered                          |Hardware/      |Installation/   |Total Price w/o   |Commercial Pricing|Discounts     |Total Price w/   |
|                                                    |Material       |Labor           |GSA fee           |                  |              |GSA fee          |
|24 strand fiber installation                        |$xx.xx         |$xx.xx          |$xx.xx            |$xx.xx            |%             |                 |
|Voice Communication System                          |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|Telephone Instruments                               |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|Voice Messaging System (VMS)                        |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|Installation (replacement of all horizontal cables  |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|with new Cat 5e cables)                             |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|Training/Support                                    |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|Battery Back Up (UPS) for entire communication      |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |
|systems                                             |               |                |                  |                  |              |                 |






-----------------------
PAGE 1 OF

1. REQUISITION NO.

2. CONTRACT NO.


3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE

4. ORDER NO.

5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

a. NAME

b. TELEPHONE NO.  (No Collect Calls)

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL

TIME

9. ISSUED BY

CODE

10. THIS ACQUISITION IS

UNRESTRICTED OR

SET ASIDE:                % FOR:

SMALL BUSINESS

HUBZONE SMALL

BUSINESS

SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-

OWNED SMALL BUSINESS

EMERGING SMALL

BUSINESS

8(A)

NAICS:

SIZE STANDARD:

11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINA-

TION UNLESS BLOCK IS

MARKED

SEE SCHEDULE

12. DISCOUNT TERMS

 13a.  THIS CONTRACT IS A

RATED ORDER UNDER

DPAS (15 CFR 700)

13b. RATING

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

RFQ

IFB

RFP

15. DELIVER TO

CODE

16. ADMINISTERED BY

CODE

17a. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO.         DUNS#               EMAIL

17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER

18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED

SEE ADDENDUM

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

ITEM NO.

SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

AMOUNT



25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26.)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED.  ADDENDA

ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED.

27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED.  ADDENDA

ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN _______________

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.  ___________________________________ OFFER

COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE.  CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND

DATED _______________.  YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION

DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY

(BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE

ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED

SET FORTH HEREIN IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (TYPE OR PRINT)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (TYPE OR PRINT)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION

(REV. 3/2005)

PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

7. FOR SOLICITATION

INFORMATION CALL:

STANDARD FORM 1449

OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS                                     49



DKNZ12KM001S

January 13, 2012

SHELLIE HEISLEN

816-823-2683



January 20, 2012



GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION, FAS (6QTC)

1500 E. BANNISTER ROAD, RM. BOE 4.5

KANSAS CITY, MO  64131





x

517110

 1,500 employees

   N/A

X





Maritime Expeditionary Security Facility
Army Reserve Readiness Center
Building S-41
Weldon Springs, MO 63304






Same as Block 9











General Services Administration
Finance Operations and disbursement Branch (BCEB)
P.O. Box 219434
Kansas City, MO 64121-9434
(816) 926-7287








X

Award of a Firm Fixed Price contract for the installation,
warranty and maintenance of a voice system at the Navy Training Center in Weldon Springs, MO. The period of performance of the contract is not
to exceed fifteen (15) months.






X

X


            &    (     4     5    6     7    8     9     :    ;     <     =    D     K    L     M     =CDEFIJQS{}ˆ?‘—˜?¡Ç
X                                                1

SHELLIE HEISLEN


CONTRACTING OFFICER


