
The Food and Drug Administration is soliciting for the following:

Purchase of a new Differential Scanning Calorimeter System with pressure perturbation calorimeter accessory including desktop computer with
monitor and keyboard with factory installed control data analysis software in accordance with the following specifications:


Description: In general, differential scanning calorimetry is a method used to determine the thermodynamic constants governing diverse types of
physical and chemical processes.  Conventional DSC instruments are used to characterize physical/chemical transformations occurring in medium-to-
larger sample quantities (20 - 1,000 mg).  A specialized type of DSC instrument is required for the analysis of very small quantities (≥0.02 mg)
of potentially dangerous biomacromolecules.  It is unreasonably dangerous, unwise, and cost prohibitive to produce, store, or utilize the large
quantities of dangerous protein toxins required for analysis by conventional DSC.  Bioterrorism and food safety studies on the stabilities of
protein toxins (ricin, abrin, and shiga-like toxins) are performed by using very small sample sizes, typically 0.01 - 0.05 mg.  For overwhelming
safety and cost reasons, a DSC system capable of analyzing small amounts of very toxic proteins is required.

Performance Specifications:  The complete DSC system must satisfy the following critical elements:

     A. Low short term Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR).  0.5 microcalorie/°C (RMS average) when scanning from 5°C - 110°C at 90°C/hr scan rate using
        a 30 second time filter.  Low SNR is required for accurate integration of excess heat capacities to determine ΔHm or discern minor
        differences in ΔCp expected when using microgram quantities of protein samples.

     B. Appropriate scanning temperature range. -5°C to 130°C.  Measurements made far above normal cooking temperatures (200°C, or 400°F) are
        less relevant for most protein chemistry experiments and extended temperature ranges typical for conventional DSC are inappropriate for
        our planned studies.  Higher precision measurements of Tm should be expected with an instrument whose operating temperature range is
        focused in that expected for protein samples.

     C. Baseline reproducibility.  Standard deviation for replicate scans should be 1.5 microcalorie/°C within the temperature range typical for
        protein denaturation (5°C - 95°C) at 90°C/hr scan rate using a 30 second filter.

     D. Internal Peltier device.  External water baths cannot provide precise thermal control to the degree achieved by Peltier thermal control
        circuits.

     E. Maximum sensitivity. Thermodynamic measurements have been made using microcalorimetry DSC systems using as little as 0.0125 mg lysozyme.
        Conventional DSC systems typically require 20 mg protein per analysis, a potentially lethal quantity for some of the toxins studied by
        our laboratory.

     F. Automated sample degassing/thermostatting. The DSC system must be equipped to perform reliable degassing and thermal equilibration of
        sample and reference materials prior to analysis.

     G. Minimal sample and reference chamber volumes.  The sample and reference chambers should contain ≤0.5 mL, minimizing the need for large
        sample volumes.

     H. Adjustable scan rates.  0°C/hr to 90°C/hr (heating mode); 0°C/hr to minus 60°C/hr (cooling mode).  Variable scan rates are required to
        study the mechanisms of protein toxin denaturation and renaturation.

     I. Biochemically inert sample and reference chamber materials. The sample and reference chambers must be constructed from temperature-
        resistant, biochemically inert materials.

     J. Adiabatic sample and reference chambers. The sample and reference chambers must be thermally isolated from the environment completely to
        allow small differences in excess heat capacity between the chambers to be reproducible and significant.

     K. Pressure perturbation calorimetry (PPC). The sample and reference chambers must be equipped for reliable PPC experiments at ≥5 atm.

     L. Integrated software/computer control.  A computer system (desktop or notebook computer with monitor, keyboard, mouse, no printer) is
        required for operation of the instrument and data analysis.  The computer system must provide adequate performance (processor speed,
        internal memory, card slots, disk space, etc.) required to operate the instrument control software.  The computer system must provide
        compatibility with the FDA/NCTR intranet.  The software interface must be Section 508-compliant and satisfy DHHS/FDA/NCTR VPAT
        requirements. Software and computer system must be compatible with MS Windows XP OS. Data generated by the DSC software system must be
        compatible with or exportable to MS Excel 2003 and MS PowerPoint 2003.  As appropriate experiments are performed related to the
        thermodynamic stability of protein samples, the software system must perform data analysis to measure heat capacity (Cp), change in heat
        capacity with temperature (ΔCp ), derive transition temperatures (Tm), van’t Hoff enthalpy (ΔHvH ), calorimeter enthalpy (ΔHcal ),
        entropy (ΔS), Gibbes free energy (ΔG ), and equilibrium constant (Keq).  Software must also be capable of instrument control, data
        collection, and data analysis for PPC experiments to derive coefficients of thermal expansion (α) and volumetric changes in proteins
        associated with ligand binding.

     M. Documentation. Users manuals for the software system and all system components must be provided.  Field service manuals must be provided
        for all components.

     N. Warranty. Supplier must provide a warranty period of 12 months from the date of installation.

     O. Field service and technical support.  The supplier must offer field service for installation and instrument repair beyond the scope of
        the NCTR instrument repair contractor (Bionetics). The supplier must offer technical support for training and consultation.

     P. Delivery/installation date.  All components will be delivered within 60 days of purchase.  System installation will be completed within
        30 days of delivery.

