UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION











Performance Work Statement (PWS)

National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task Development 



Attachment – A

April 14, 2011



INTRODUCTION



The purpose of this procurement is to develop interactive computer tasks (ICTs) and scoring rubrics for the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) science grade 4, 8 and 12 assessments for 2015 and beyond.  The ICTs shall be designed to be administered on the computer delivery system developed for NAEP computer-based tasks.

Legislative Authority



The legislative authority for NAEP can be found in NCES’ long standing mission to “collect, and analyze and disseminate statistics and other information related to education in the United States and in other nations” (stated in section 406 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1221e-1) and in the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (HR 3801, Part C, Sec. 153). 

Background



The National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) in the Institute of Education Sciences (IES) of ED conducts a variety of domestic activities to collect and report data on education in the United States and its territories. In that light, NCES provides comparative information about the U.S. population’s educational performance, competencies, and skills by administering large-scale assessments that provide results on subject-matter achievement, instructional experiences, and school environments for populations of students (e.g., all fourth-graders) and groups within those populations (e.g., female students, Hispanic students). NCES reports NAEP results in several content areas at the national and state levels, and for selected large urban districts. NAEP results are based on representative samples of students at grades 4, 8, and 12 for the main assessments and at ages 9, 13, or 17 years for the . 

IES/NCES administers NAEP in schools in all 50 states, the District of Columbia (DC), the Department of Defense Education Agency (DoDEA), the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) and Puerto Rico (hereinafter referred to as “states”) as well as 21 large urban districts participating in the Trial Urban District Assessment (TUDA). NAEP assessments are administered every year, with national, state, and district representative assessments in reading, mathematics, science, and writing in the odd numbered years, and national only assessments occurring in even numbered years. Pilot-testing and special studies occur every year. A 12th grade state pilot in reading and mathematics was implemented in 2009. 



States are required to participate in the 4th- and 8th-grade reading and mathematics assessments, but all other assessments, pilot-testing and special studies are voluntary. States work closely with NCES to ensure a) representative state samples, b) substantially full participation in most assessments and smooth operational processes, and c) accurate reporting of NAEP results on state report cards and in reports to ED.

 

The NAEP science assessment provides a snapshot view of what the nation’s 4th, 8th, and 12th graders know and can do in science. Since the 1990s, in addition to the national-level assessments, NAEP has conducted and reported state-level assessments at grades 4 and 8 in science. State-level (grades 4 and 8) as well as national (grades 4, 8 and 12) science assessments were conducted in 1996, 2000, 2005 and 2009. In 2011, a linking study between NAEP and the Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) was conducted using the 2009 grade 8 paper-pencil science assessment.



The NAEP science assessment was based on a new framework to keep the assessment content current with key developments in science standards, innovative assessment approaches, and recent research in both science and cognition.  The assessment measured student understanding of science principles in three broad content areas (i.e., physical science, life science, and earth and space sciences) and skills and abilities required across four science practices (i.e., identifying science principles, using science principles, using scientific inquiry, and using technological design).  The science assessment included three components: the main paper-and-pencil assessment including both selected- and constructed-response questions, hands-on performance tasks (HOTs) and interactive computer tasks (ICTs).  Both HOTs and ICTs engage students in problem-solving and inquiry tasks to assess complex science understandings and practices. Hand-on tasks were included in previous NAEP science assessments, but 2009 was the first time NAEP included a computer-based component.



There are four types of ICTs defined in the Science framework: (1) information search and analysis, (2) empirical investigation, (3) simulation, and (4) concept maps. ICTs should offer advantages over other assessment modes and allow the complex science understandings and practices to be measured with less time, cost and logistical challenges and with greater opportunities for divergent problem-solving tasks. The ICTs (and the HOTs) in the 2009 science assessment were administered as part of a NAEP research study.   The next science assessment including science ICTs is scheduled for 2015 at the national (grades 4, 8 and 12) and state (grades 4, 8 and 12) levels and in selected large urban school districts (grades 4 and 8), and is planned for every four (4) years thereafter. 



The development of new ICTs for the 2015 science assessment will be guided by the Science Framework and the Science Assessment and Item Specifications for the 2009 National Assessment of Educational Progress.  These documents are available at . More information about NAEP and the NAEP science assessment can be found at the following web site:  .



Magnitude of Work 

A major thrust for all NAEP item/task development activities is the application of the highest assessment development standards in ways that are cohesive and consistent within and across all NAEP assessments.  Not only should cognitive test items/tasks be of the highest quality, but also the sum of all the items/tasks should work together to provide the best possible information about student achievement. This is especially relevant to the work specified in this procurement: together the NAEP science ICTs, paper-and-pencil assessment and HOTs will provide a comprehensive assessment of science as defined in the 2009 Science Framework. 

The purpose of this procurement is to develop science interactive computer tasks and scoring rubrics for grades 4, 8 and 12 during the sixty (60)-month period (2011 -2016) covered by this contract. Science ICTs are tasks that assess knowledge of science and the ways in which the knowledge is used. They measure aspects of science knowledge and science practices that are difficult to measure using paper and pencil.   An ICT is a scenario-based type of task that requires student to interact with the computer in order to answer the questions (or items) included in the task. It contains multiple items which may include selected-response items, constructed-response items, or both. A minimum of ten (10) successful tasks per grade level with accompanying multiple choice, short constructed-response and extended constructed-response items are required for the 2015 assessment with an additional pool of 20 tasks for subsequent special studies and assessments. The ICT contractor shall develop, at a minimum, twice as many tasks as needed for the 2015 operational assessment and task pool. Table 1 presents a projection of the minimum number of ICTs needed for different purposes. 

Table 1. Projection of the minimum number of tasks to be developed by grade and purpose



Successful tasks are those that 

Measure knowledge and skills consistent with the NAEP science framework;

Meet the requirements of the science item specification document;

Provide within the overall pool of tasks broad coverage of the framework; 

Are not biased using generally accepted standards for bias; 

Meet universal design (Section 508) requirements;

Are grade appropriate; 

Meet generally accepted item statistical standards (e.g., difficulty, discrimination, and DIF);

Engage students to do their best; and

Allow the widest possible range of students to participate.



Of successful tasks for both the operational assessment and the task pool, 1/3 shall be of a length and complexity that students can reasonably be expected to complete them in 30 minutes and 2/3 in 15 minutes.

Major Challenges

A balance of creativity and efficiency in task development 

The paper-and-pencil cognitive items and the hands-on performance tasks (HOTs) will remain the same except for the replacement of released items. Released items are available on the NAEP web site at . All 2009 science ICTs developed by the previous NAEP Item Development contractor will be released and must be replaced. This procurement is for the replacement of 2009 ICTs to measure the skills and abilities defined in the 2009 science framework, and for establishment of a pool of tasks that may be used in future assessments and research. It will not be necessary to establish a link to the 2009 ICTs but will be necessary to ensure that the 2015 assessment provides the baseline for trends to the future. The proposed approach to ICT development needs to be creative. Efficiency in development and administration and cost effectiveness in continuing assessments should be major considerations in the task design. In fact, NCES will judge offers not considering efficiency in development and administration or cost effectiveness to be nonresponsive.

A clear understanding of the cognitive processes and strategies students use to solve problems

The development process must be guided by a clear understanding of the inferences to be made and a clear delineation of constructs to be reported. Tasks should be designed specifically to measure those constructs specified in the 2009 NAEP Science Framework and Item Specifications documents. 

Developing tasks that can be delivered on the computer delivery system that was developed originally for the NAEP 2011 writing assessment and then modified for delivery of an adaptive-type mathematics assessment, also in 2011

The NAEP computer delivery system performed efficiently and effectively in the 2011 writing assessment. The same delivery system has been modified for a special mathematics study in 2011. NCES plans to modify this basic system as the delivery system for future assessments including the science ICTs and the Technological and Engineering Literacy (TEL) assessment. The delivery mode shall be on NAEP-provided laptops similar to what was done for the NAEP 8th-and 12th-grade writing assessments.  

The NAEP Web/Technology Development, Operations and Maintenance (hereafter referred to as “Web/Technology”) contractor develops and maintains the computer delivery system with the ultimate goal of delivery on school-based hardware. The contractor must work closely with the NAEP Web/Technology contractor to ensure that tasks can be delivered using the platform.  

Coordination across NAEP Alliance contractors throughout the contract period 

The contractor must coordinate with the NAEP Web/Technology contractor to successfully integrate tasks so they work properly in the current computer-based assessment system, or in the future web-based system. NCES will determine whether the current or future web-based assessment system is used for a given assessment. Paper-and-pencil items and HOTs are developed by the NAEP Item Development (ID) contractor. All NAEP assessments are administered by trained administrators contracted through the Sampling and Data Collection (SDC) contractor, scored by the Materials, Distribution, Processing and Scoring (MDPS) contractor, and analyzed and reported by the NAEP Design, Analysis and Reporting (DAR) contractor. While not part of the Alliance, the NAEP Publication, Outreach and Dissemination Support (PODS) contractor provides support in media production and quality of design issues. Success of the ICT development will rely on coordination between the ICT contractor and other relevant NAEP contractors.

The timing of NAEP contract awards

The current Alliance contracts will end September 2012. New contracts representing all of the Alliance functions will be awarded in mid-2012. This means that the ICT contractor may be working with different contractors during the span of their contract.


SCOPE OF WORK

NAEP’s progression to a computer-based system of testing and the use of computers is already seen in the innovations included in both the 2009 science and the 2011 writing assessments.  New item types represent more than moving a paper-and-pencil test item to a new delivery system. They involve newer and more complex measures not possible in a paper-and-pencil environment. The development of the science ICTs for 2015 and beyond should build on and enhance the experiences of the 2009 and 2011 computer-based assessments. NCES is looking for the next generation of interactive computer tasks.

The task development work will be guided by multiple documents.  The major line of guidance comes from the science-specific framework and item specifications documents developed by the Governing Board.  However, there are times when these documents and experiences may be open to multiple interpretations.  Therefore, the Science ICT contractor will develop an item specifications clarification document that relates specifically to the science ICTs.  The purpose of this document is to clarify the content to be assessed and interpret the guidance found in the science item Specifications document. An implementation plan, to be developed also by the ICT contractor, will further specify how tasks shall be developed. 

Because the resulting tasks must also adhere to the design constraints related to both NAEP administration, operational and psychometric needs, there is a design plan that will also guide task development.  The plan, which will be developed by the NAEP DAR contractor, prescribes the number of tasks, the number of blocks, and the configuration of blocks and booklets for the 2015 assessment.  

The expected scope of this contract is represented by 4 tasks.  

Task 1: Planning and Management (Firm Fixed Price Task)



The ICT contractor shall manage the development of the science ICT tasks in an efficient manner that fosters communications with contractor staff, Alliance contractor staff, the NCES Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR), ED Contracting Specialist (CS) and Contracting Officer (CO), NCES Assessment Development (AD) staff and other relevant contractors.  Furthermore, the ICT contractor shall manage the contract in a cost effective manner.  NCES will provide the contractor with access to the NAEP Interactive Management System (IMS) to review NAEP’s design and other background documents necessary for understanding NAEP’s operational and policy procedures. The IMS is an existing system that NAEP contractors use to report on each phase of the assessment and NCES use to monitor all phases of the assessment. NCES will provide access to information from prior science assessments including the 2009 science assessment with the first generation ICTs. The project director(s) and staff shall review these materials to become familiar with NAEP.

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meetings with NCES

  

The ICT contractor shall plan two (2) project initiation meetings. The first meeting shall be at Department of Education offices between key contract personnel and the Contract Officer, the Contract Specialist, and the COR(s).  The purpose of this meeting is to review the contract tasks to be carried out and to discuss issues related to the conduct of the program.  The contractor will be prepared to identify areas of concern and to suggest ways of responding to these concerns.  The meeting will be held within two (2) weeks of contract award.

The second meeting will be a meeting of the key staff of members of the Alliance team and other NAEP contractors, the Contract Officer(s), the Contract Specialist(s), NAEP COR(s), and other NCES staff.  The purpose of this meeting is to review and refine plans for interaction and the flow of work across contractors.  Discussion will include communication systems, the NAEP integrated management system (IMS), and issues that each contractor has identified as potentially problematic. At the meeting, the ICT contractor shall present their vision and strategies for developing ICTs from three (3) perspectives: content and framework alignment, technology, and NCES quality and time constraints.

This meeting will be held in Washington, DC within the first 4 weeks after contract award.  The project director and no more than two (2) other key ICT contractor staff will attend these meetings.







Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings



The contractor shall manage a Program Steering Committee to provide ongoing guidance for the project and lead the monthly steering committee meetings. The Steering Committee will be composed of, at a minimum, the Project Directors, a corporate officer with project oversight responsibilities, the COR and NCES management with program oversight responsibilities.  The Committee will meet in-person in the Washington, DC area every month. The schedule can be adjusted with the approval of the COR.  The purpose of these meetings is to discuss programmatic issues related to the development of ICTs (including but not limited to issues such as item quality, translations, technology, scoring) and long-term planning.



In addition, the contractor shall hold weekly update teleconferences with the COR. The schedule can be adjusted as negotiated with the COR.  The weekly meetings shall focus on issues and challenges associated with current work, and on discussing issues for upcoming work.  The meetings shall be used to maintain open communications between the contractor and NCES. ICT working group may also be convened on a periodic basis which consists of the Project Director, key contractor staff, the COR, NCES management with program oversight and NCES key staff on this contract.



In option years, the contractor shall follow the same process for project management meetings.







Task 1.3 Master Schedule



The master schedule indicates timelines and completion dates for major milestones/deliverables and ICT related to science activities (e.g., system’s requirement meeting, delivery of ICT task, item review meetings, training materials, scorer training, etc.) and identifies key handoffs to among NAEP contractors.  The schedule shall be available in electronic form on the IMS. Even though the Alliance contractor shall assemble and maintain the master schedule, the ICT contractor is responsible for updating the ICT contractor component of the master schedule.



In option years, the contractor shall follow the same schedule to update the master schedule.







Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule 



The contractor shall prepare and submit an annual work schedule to the COR.  Distinct from the master schedule covering the whole process of the ICT contract  across all NAEP contractors at a high level, the annual work schedule shall indicate more detailed timelines and completion dates for all activities occurring in a specific year conduct by the ICT contractor. For example, the master schedule may include ICT standing committee review of ICTs as one item, but on the annual work schedule, there shall be a timeline for the ICT contractor to deliver the meeting agenda, draft and final review materials, memorandum, etc. for the review meeting. The annual work schedule shall identify each deliverable in that year and indicate its due date. The contractor will include sufficient time for reviews of all deliverables.  



If changes to the work schedule are needed, the contractor shall notify the COR of such change(s) and receive approval before implementing.



In option years, the contractor shall follow the same process to prepare an annual work schedule.







Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan  



Quality control procedures are critical in all phases of NAEP.  The ICT contractor shall develop an annual Quality Control Plan (QC Plan) that describes and documents in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that they will implement and maintain for every activity, process, and procedure for which they are responsible in a certain year.  The QC Plan shall ensure that a system of quality control checks is sufficient to detect and identify errors, the potential for errors, inefficiencies that may cause program delays, and any other incident that will have an impact on the NAEP program. All handoffs and collaborations among NAEP contractors shall be included in the ICT Quality Control Plan. Through narrative description and graphic representation, the contractor shall note critical paths, milestones, and quality control procedures to be conducted in the flow of work. 

In option years, the contractor shall follow the same process and schedule to prepare and submit the quality control plan.





Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports



The contractor shall submit to the COR a regular monthly progress report by the tenth (10th) calendar day of the month.  At a minimum, the contractor shall include the following:



Upcoming month’s work description, including key dates by which time tasks or activities will be initiated or completed during the month;

Major accomplishments for the month;

Work that is continuing;

List of products and milestones submitted or achieved during month, with a short description of each; 

Anticipated changes in key staff shall be reported to the COR within 24 hours of the time the change is known and detailed in the subsequent monthly report. and

Problems/Issues and how each has been or will be addressed by the contractor.

Earned Value Management (EVM) milestones, budget and schedule activity.



The contractor shall also submit to the COR a monthly financial data report.  The contractor shall, at a minimum, include the following:



Information on the following aspects of the contract and its operation:

Past month’s cost of work completed, by task and cumulatively; 

Past month’s budgeted cost for the month, by task and cumulatively;

Percent of contracted amount spent to date, by task;

Estimated cost to complete, total estimated cost, and total contracted cost;

Difference between the total estimated cost and the contracted cost; and

Staff hours spent on each task during the prior month.



(2)	Appropriate records and information to permit the COR to certify that the services listed on monthly bills are actually used and are for official purposes; 



(3)	A manpower report prepared and signed by the project director that summarizes actual personnel assignments for the month just completed, showing for each named individual the hours charged, by task.  For individuals not named in the contract, the manpower report will show hours spent by position (e.g., project manager).  All hours billed to the contract will be summarized in the report: and 



(4)  Monthly input and reporting to the current Project Budget Tracking System in accordance with Clause H.28 FAR 52.234-4 Earned Value Management System (JUL 2006). This system helps NAEP track costs and performs Earned Value Management analyses of the NAEP contracts.  It shows where NAEP is in the process according to budget and actual costs. Besides reporting, it allows NCES to perform models on how much potential future assessments would cost based on different parameters. All NAEP Alliance contractors are required to submit information to support this system. The science ICT contractor is also required to submit information to support this system.



The contractor shall include detailed information in the monthly financial data reports on any anticipated or actual cost overruns or cost savings, whether incurred within a single task or cumulatively.  At the request of the COR, if additional issues need to be addressed in either monthly report, the contractor shall submit an addendum within one (1) week of the request. 

In option years, the contractor shall follow the same schedule to prepare and submit monthly progress and financial reports.



Task 1.7 Staffing Plan



The contractor shall maintain a current staffing plan and report changes to the COR as soon as possible. The COR shall be notified of changes in key staff prior to the change.  



There are a few specific staffing requirements for the Science ICT contract. At least one member on the team must have a doctoral level degree and/or demonstrated research experience related to cognitive processing and development in Science.  At least one member of the team must have a doctoral level degree and/or demonstrated research experience related to the psychometrics of test design and item analyses. Collectively the key staff should possess the technical expertise, knowledge, and experience in complex large-scale assessments, psychometric theory including Item Response Theory, computer-based assessment, item development, science curriculum and instruction, multimedia/graphic design, cognitive labs etc.



This task is not applicable in the option years.



	

Task 2: Task Development (Cost Plus Award Fee Task)

A primary principle in the development of the science ICTs is to harness the power of computer-based assessments to assess science knowledge and skills that cannot be measured or measured in depth using paper and pencil. The computer mode of administration will also allow the measure of not only response accuracy but also efficiency of the “path” taken to complete the ICTs.  Moreover, the contractor shall be mindful of NAEP’s long term vision to move the entire NAEP science assessment to computer. Consequently, the goal for this contract is to serve as the transition between the 2009 assessment and the future; a likely scenario would be to administer the science ICTs as a separate component in 2015 and integrated into a wholly computer-based assessment in 2019 and beyond.

In meeting the challenges of ICT development, the contractor shall work closely with the Alliance contractors. Throughout the tasks described below there are activities that require close coordination with other NAEP contractors. It is the ICT contractor’s responsibility to identify those activities and work within the Alliance structure to ensure appropriate and adequate involvement of the Alliance. 

Task 2.1   Implementation Plan

The contractor shall submit a written plan describing the full project implementation process to be approved by the COR. The implementation plan is intended to serve as a comprehensive roadmap for, and record of, the activities necessary to ensure the successful implementation of the science ICT assessment in 2015.  Because many components of the implementation plan can only be developed in consultation with other NAEP contractors, the NAEP Alliance contractor shall be responsible for developing the plan and the Science ICT contractor shall contribute to the plan. As a living document, the implementation plan shall be updated periodically to reflect the specific plans and decisions that emerge from each major phase of ICT development. Note that an item development plan, which defines the needs of item development for the pilot test and the operational assessment, shall be a separate plan (see Task 2.3).

A complete implementation plan generally includes the following components:

High-level overview of the framework and specifications;

Key questions and issues left unanswered by the framework and specifications documents;

Measurement model used to guide assessment design, item development, administration, scoring, reporting, and release plans;

Preliminary and long-term research needed;

Assessment design;

Assessment development;

Materials, distributions, processing and scoring;

Administration considerations;

Scheduling and coordination;

Analysis and scoring; and

Technical documentation and reporting.

The contractor shall think broadly but be specific in demonstrating their understanding of the complexity of ICT development when drafting the ICT contract components of the implementation plan. 



In option years 1 to 3, the contractor shall follow the same process and schedule to prepare and submit updated implementation plan.





Task 2.2 Review of Existing Item/Task Pool

Before task development takes place, the science ICT contractor shall consult with the current ID contractor to gain an in-depth understanding of the construct being measured by the paper-and-pencil items and HOTs of the science assessment.  This shall ensure that the new ICTs are coordinated with the paper-and-pencil items and HOTs for a full coverage of the science framework.  

This task is not applicable in the option years.







Task 2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

The contractor shall develop and prepare for pilot testing a sufficient number of high quality tasks to ensure a minimum of 30 approved tasks at each grade level, 4, 8 and 12. One-third (1/3) of the final tasks will be administered in the 2015 assessment with 1/3 available for the 2019 assessment and 1/3 available in the item pool for future use in the assessment or for research. A model of more tasks may be proposed. 

Prior to beginning task development and in consultation with the NAEP DAR contractor, the ICT contractor shall develop an item development plan which specifies the number of items to be developed for the pilot test and the operational assessment by, for example, content area, science practice, various levels of item difficulty, etc.  This plan should reflect the contractor’s review of existing science assessment item/task pool (see task 2.2). The plan shall be used as a guideline for ICT development after it is approved by the COR. 

Because science ICTs can be costly to develop, the contractor shall submit task templates of a representative sample of the types of tasks to be developed, task concepts or outlines for each task, and mock-ups of all tasks during the task development process. In addition, the contractor shall consider the principles of software reusability by exploring reusable features such as text, graphics, actions, applications, tools, etc. that allow for rapid development and assembly of items.

The ICT contractor shall ensure that the tasks are compatible with the existing NCES delivery system.  The ICT contractor shall work with the Web/Technology contractor and other NAEP Alliance contractors to identify the delivery system requirements of the ICTs and attend system requirement meetings convened by the Web/Technology contractor to discuss the requirements. 

NAEP limits the use of items revised after a pilot in an operational assessment.  Items revised after a pilot test must be re-piloted to verify their psychometric properties. NAEP assessment items shall be accessible to the widest possible range of students, not biased against any group of students, clear in language and free of construct-irrelevant content and materials. Therefore, as much as possible, the principles of universal design shall be incorporated into the ICTs. Construct irrelevant content and materials should be avoided. Vocabulary, grammar, and sentence construction shall not cause unnecessary difficulty. All NAEP materials must be 508 compliant. Because NAEP tasks are translated into Spanish for bilingual assessment booklets (see Task 2.8), potential translation issues (e.g., are there words that cannot be translated into Spanish?) shall be considered at the item development stage. 

Besides, the contractor shall conduct a sensitivity/bias review prior to submitting any tasks and materials to NCES. In addition, cognitive labs and small-scale pilot testing with interviews shall be conducted prior to finalizing tasks for pilot testing. The contractor shall submit a plan for the cognitive labs describing the procedure and a timeline including IMT/OMB clearance (see Task 4.2.3). If all tasks are not to be subjected to cognitive labs, the contractor shall explain why and what provisions will be incorporated to ensure item quality.

The contractor shall develop and maintain a task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks. The profile shall be created in the format that is compatible with the Integrated Item Tracking and Development System (ITDS), which is an item-banking system that holds and enables management of entire inventories of NAEP items. The task profile record must contain, at a minimum, a brief description of each item, item type, content area, cognitive process, and predicted difficulty level, changes made to the item, reviewer’s comments, cognitive lab results (if applicable), etc.  The interim record at critical stages of ICT development (e.g., post NAGB review see task 3.2) should be delivered to the COR upon request.  

In option years 1 to 3, the contractor shall continue all ICT development activities.



Task 2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks 

Once tasks have been selected for inclusion for pilot testing, they will need to be assembled into assessment booklets. The DAR contractor will have provided a design plan that describes the number of items and blocks, and the configuration of blocks within assessment booklets.  However, this plan does not address the choice or placement of individual tasks within blocks.  There are many principles that can be applied in configuring each block. In addition, the frameworks have implicit goals that can be achieved by manipulating how blocks are configured.  Therefore, the contractor shall coordinate with the DAR contractor to develop a within block design plan and demonstrate how that plan is to be implemented and achieved.  

This task is not applicable to the base year. In the option years 1 and 2, the contractor shall configure tasks into blocks and perform evaluation of whether the task statistics and selection of tasks fulfill the within block design plan.





Task 2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment  

After pilot testing, tasks are selected for inclusion in the operational assessment.  The contractor shall provide an in-depth description of the process to be used for making these decisions.  In coordination with the DAR contractor, the ICT contractor shall convene an item review meeting to review the data from the pilot test and facilitate item selection. In addition, when it has been determined that more than enough tasks for the operational assessment are of sufficiently good quality, an inventory of what will be used and what is available for future use shall be compiled. An inventory of tasks not deemed acceptable with notations of weaknesses shall be compiled.

This task is not applicable to the base year. In the option years 2 and 3, the contractor shall determine the tasks to be included in the 2015 operational assessment and submit a report.





Task 2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development 

The ICT contractor will be responsible for (1) developing scoring rubrics to score constructed-response items in ICTs, (2) leading the collaboration with the Materials, Distribution, Processing and Scoring (MDPS) contractor to develop training materials (e.g., scoring handbook) to train trainers and for trainers to use to train scorers, (3) assisting in the training and supervision of scorers, and (4) participating in the ongoing monitoring of scoring. 

Clear and precise scoring rubrics are required for scoring to be done in an objective, reliable and valid fashion. Because each ICT may consist of multiple items, a scoring rubric for each constructed-response item of an ICT must be developed.  Because the computer-based assessment allows collection of data on both accuracy and efficiency, the scoring rubric should specify how to score the efficiency of the “path” taken to complete an item. For multiple-choice items, the contractor shall clearly document the rationale of distractors. The rationale will be informative for reporting the ICT assessment result. 

Scoring rubrics are normally developed with NAEP items and undergo the same rigorous review process as cognitive items.  The process includes NCES, standing committee (see Task 3.1), representatives from State Departments of Education (see Task 3.3), and the Governing Board reviews (see Task 3.2).  The standing committee review currently takes place twice: one is prior to the pilot test and the other is on-site at the scoring center.  The purpose of the second standing committee review is to fine tune the final scoring rubrics in light of actual student responses from the pilot test.  The contractor shall be responsible for revising scoring rubrics to reflect reviewers’ comments.

Following initial approval of the scoring rubrics, the contractor shall work with the MDPS contractor to identify what content and training resources will be needed. Key elements of this content will include descriptions of handoffs and collaborations, methods for training trainers to train scores to score items consistently, and any materials or documents trainers will need for scorer training.  

 

During preparation for pilot and first-year operational assessment scoring, the ICT and the MDPS contractors shall collaborate very closely in selecting anchor paper sets, practice scoring sets and scoring qualifying sets in order to construct training sets for each constructed-response item. 

The ICT contractor will be responsible for providing trainers and assist in the training of trainers and scorers.  The MDPS contractor will supervise scoring of pilot and operational tasks while the ICT contractor will provide content expertise throughout the course of all scoring activities. The ability to work very closely in a collaborative manner is central to the success of scoring of NAEP ICTs. 

The ICT contractor shall work with MDPS to develop a plan for rubric development, training material development, training and scoring.  This plan will include numbers for staffing (people and hours) for train-the-trainers (including preparation time), as well as a schedule for supervisor training, training set construction, scoring training and scoring. The ICT and the MDPS contractor must agree on the staffing plan, and the contractor must have sufficient staff on hand for the duration of each phase of scoring. The contractor shall attend the scoring planning meeting and scoring debriefing meeting at the conclusion of scoring activities to discuss summary statistics, difficulties in scoring particular items, lessons learned etc. Both meetings are convened by the MDPS contractor. The ICT and the MDPS contractors shall work closely with NCES on an ongoing base to ensure that schedules remain aligned and are on target to complete work on time.   

This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 2  and 3, the contractor shall perform all activities of this task.



Task 2.7 Determining Content Validity of Tasks 

The contractor shall conduct a content validity study to ensure that all tasks are measuring the content defined in the Science framework.  The study shall reflect the process and criteria proposed by the contractor to evaluate the degree of alignment between the ICTs and the framework.

This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 2 and  3, the contractor shall perform this task.





Task 2.8 Translation 

To address the needs of Spanish ELL students, NAEP tasks are translated into Spanish for bilingual assessment booklets. Under current practice, after the items have been developed and piloted in English, they are translated into Spanish.  An ad hoc committee of native Spanish-speakers, Spanish speaking educators and linguists supported under the Alliance contract will review and verify the initial translations. The ICT contractor shall prepare translated Spanish versions of the science ICTs and collaborate with the NAEP Alliance contractor to ensure the tasks are properly translated.    

The contractor shall provide a plan for translation which should describe approaches that might ensure not only the quality of the translation but also the psychometric properties of the items in each language and that will take advantage of the technology of computer-based assessment. 



In option years 1 and 2, the contractor shall submit the following deliverables. 





Task 2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork 

As part of the NAEP assessments, text and artwork are frequently acquired from published materials.  The contractor will need to request these releases and maintain the agreement not only for inclusion in the assessment materials themselves, but also for use on the NAEP website once tasks are released.  

This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 1 and 2, the contractor shall perform this task.



Task 2.10 Item Quality Review Meeting

In order to ensure NAEP item quality, NCES requests an item quality review meeting for each NAEP subject after the operational assessment.  The purpose of the meeting for the Science ICT assessment will be two-fold: 1) to evaluate the success of the item pool the 2015 operational assessment; and 2) to identify items to be released.  The review will be two parts: content and psychometric properties.  



For the content review, there are two goals.

To examine the success of the current item pool in representing the content specifications as prescribed by the framework.  

To understand the assumptions guiding block assembly in terms of content coverage and other content considerations, and to evaluate how well the assumptions are met for the operational assessment.  



For the psychometric property review, there are 6 goals:

To evaluate item difficulty of the current item pool, by item type, by block, and by subscale level or content area.

To understand the assumptions guiding block assembly in terms of item difficulty and other psychometric considerations, and to evaluate how well the assumptions are met.

To examine overall measurement precision, measurement precision by block, and measurement precision by subscale.

To evaluate test speededness at the block level of the item pool.

To evaluate comparability between ability distribution and distribution of IRT b parameters of the item pool.

To evaluate comparability between actual and predicted achievement levels of items in the item pool.

In coordination with the NAEP DAR contractor, the ICT contractor shall submit a meeting agenda and provide the data to fulfill the above goals prior to the scheduled meeting. In addition to the high-level review goals, NCES will conduct a thorough quality review of each individual item.  Therefore, the contractor shall also provide item-level statistics (e.g., R-biserial, mean item score, scale score, c parameter estimate, DIF) prior to the meeting.  Because the general goal of the meeting is for NCES to obtain a big picture of item quality, data of individual items are not required to be presented at the meeting.  However, item-level data of problematic items should be highlighted and presented to review and discuss at the meeting.

This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 3 and 4, this task shall be performed by the contractor.









Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees (Firm Fixed Price Task)

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee 

The contractor shall establish an expert review panel for the purpose of obtaining peer review, guidance and feedback to the ICT contractor regarding the development of tasks in terms of their measurement properties, alignment to the framework, grade appropriateness, accuracy, clarity, and the coverage of each subtopic by the collection of items.  Reviews of task templates and concepts at the early stage of task development should be considered if appropriate. 

The membership shall not exceed 15 members; shall include researchers, subject area educators, state and local curriculum specialists, and classroom teachers at the appropriate grade levels. At least one-fifth (1/5) of members of the ICT Science Standing Committee should have served on the Governing Board science framework development committee and at least one-fifth (1/5) are current members of the Science Standing Committee. 

NCES is especially interested in having diversity represented on the committee to ensure that important perspectives that might otherwise be overlooked be brought to light so as to better serve all the constituencies that have a stake in NAEP. These diverse perspectives may be based on region, gender, race/ethnicity, and roles in education. 

Meetings shall occur on both a regular and ad hoc basis and always be held in Washington DC.  Regular meetings in the form of face-to-face meetings, teleconferences or WebEX conferences as appropriate to the task, shall occur no more than four (4) times a year.  Small ad hoc meetings may be convened around special product development when necessary.  The NAEP Logistics contractor shall pay all face-to-face meeting expenses.

In considering what review packages should look like, NCES is interested in electronic review packages tailored to the intended user. All review packages shall include task classification information, the task, and data displayed in a way that is user-friendly. NCES is interested in developing template formats that work in each of these situations.  Therefore, before the first review package for a particular group is developed, the contactor will be required to submit a mock-up.  Thereafter, the same format can be used until an improvement is agreed upon.

List of proposed standing committee members shall be submitted in the base year only. In option years 1 to 3, the contractor shall follow the same schedule to submit other deliverables of this task as in the base year.



Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

The National Assessment Governing Board (NAGB) approves NAEP cognitive items for the pilot test and the operational assessment through its Assessment Development Committee (ADC).  The ADC reviews usually occur during the Governing Board quarterly meetings. However, these reviews could be convened outside the scheduled Governing Board meetings with advance notice.  See task 3.1 for preparation of review packages.



The ADC reviews normally include items and scoring rubrics. However, because science ICTs are new types of cognitive items and can be costly to develop, ADC review of task concepts at early development stages will be important. 



Prior to each ADC review meeting, the contractor shall prepare or update a briefing document in the format of a spreadsheet to provide the dates for the ADC to receive the review materials, the dates to receive ADC feedback, the anticipated amount of content (e.g., 10 task concepts) to be reviewed, and the status of each review to be conducted within a year.



This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 1 to 3, the contractor shall perform activities of this task.





Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting



The contractor shall conduct a state review of the ICTs and scoring rubrics before submitting the proposed pilot items to the governing Board for approval. The purpose of the review is to obtain peer review of the items proposed for pilot testing. 

The contractor shall provide up to five facilitators and produce up to 100 secure item review materials for each grade level.  The facilitators shall participate in up to 2 pre-review meetings with NCES.  The facilitators shall include item developers familiar with the specific assessment framework, the tasks to be reviewed and to serve as small group facilitators during the 2-day item review.  In addition, the contractor shall also produce up to 3 copies of other secure materials (to be determined by NCES) for participants to view during the meeting.

Two (2) representatives from each state and at least one (1) representative from each NEAP participating Trial Urban District shall be invited to review the tasks. The meeting shall be held face-to-face in Washington DC. The NAEP Logistics contractor will pay all expenses. The contractor shall work closely with the Logistics contractor for planning the logistics portion of the meeting and provide sufficient staff to serve as facilitators during the review meeting. See task 3.1 for preparation of review packages.

This task is not applicable to the base year. In option years 1 and 2, the contractor shall perform activities of this task.

Task 4: General Activities (Firm Fixed Price Task)

General activities are usually required of all NAEP contractors.  They are mostly administrative, reflect regular documentation of requirements and progress, and will help to facilitate the flow of work across contractors.  



Task 4.1 Requirements for Data collection and Processing

Task 4.1.1 Overview of IES confidentiality Statute

Confidentiality of Individuals and Institutions

NCES assures participating individuals and institutions that any data collected conforms to the IES standards for protecting the privacy of individuals as required by Section 183 of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-279):

 “. . . all collection, maintenance, use, and wide dissemination of data by the institute, including each office, board, committee, and Center of the Institute, shall conform with the requirements of section 552A of Title 5, United States Code [which protects the confidentiality rights of individual respondents with regard to the data collected, reported, and published under this title].” (Section 183)

Under the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (ESRA 2002), all individually identifiable information about students, their families, and their schools shall remain confidential. To this end, this law requires that no person may:

Use any individually identifiable information furnished under the provisions of this section for any purpose other than statistical purposes for which it is supplied, except in the case of terrorism; 

Make any publication whereby the data furnished by any particular person wider this section can be identified; or

Permit anyone other than the individuals authorized by the Commissioner to examine individual reports.

Further, individually identifiable information is immune from legal process, and shall not, without the consent of the individual concerned, be admitted as evidence or used for any purpose in any action, suit, or other judicial or administrative proceeding, except in the case of terrorism.  Employees, including temporary employees, or other persons who have sworn to observe the limitations imposed by this law, who knowingly publish or communicate any individually identifiable information will be subject to fines of up to $250,000 or up to 5 years in prison, or both (Class E felony).

Protection and Security of Data

The confidentiality of individually identifiable information contained in project documents, data, and other information supplied by the National Center for Education Statistics, U.S. Department of Education (NCES/ED) or information acquired in the course of performance under this contract where the information was furnished under the provisions of Section 183 of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 is a material aspect of the contract and must be maintained, secured, and protected from disclosure as provided in Section 183.  The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) also applies.

The contractor shall enforce strict procedures for assuring confidentiality.  These procedures shall apply to all phases of the project and should include but not be limited to: information used to locate study respondents, data collection in the field, coding and editing phases of data prior to machine processing, safeguarding response documents, and maintenance of any respondent follow-up information.  Contractor shall physically separate the identifying data required for any follow-up from data required for research purposes. It is essential that the contractor collaborate with all other contractors to ensure that information not be dropped in the transfer of data from one contractor to another. This is especially important for information to be transferred electronically. The contractor shall observe procedures for assuring confidentiality as required by the following:

The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a),

E-Government Act of 2002 – (P.L. 107-347, Title V, Subtitle A, “Confidential Information Protection”),

Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99),

The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552),

The contractor shall be familiar with and comply with:

Hawkins-Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988 (P.L.100-297),

Section C of Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (P.L. 107-279),

Title IV of the Improving America's Schools Act of 1994 (P.L.103-382),

USA Patriot Act of 2001 (P.L. 107-56),

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Federal Statistical Confidentiality Order of 1997, and

Any new legislation that impacts the data collection through this contract.

The contractor shall maintain the confidentiality of all documents, data, and other information supplied by NCES/ED or acquired in the course of performance of this contract, except for any documents or other information specifically designated as non-confidential by NCES/ED.  The contractor shall take such measures as are necessary to maintain the required security and protection of confidential information (see section Data Security Plan).  The contractor shall be prepared to develop compliance procedures in cooperation with the COR concurrently with the development of the study design.

Task 4.1.2 Data Security Plan

Definition of Personally Identifiable Information and Direct Identifiers

The term “personally identifiable information” (hereinafter PII) means any information about an individual maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as their name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, biometric records, etc., including any other personal information which is linked or linkable to an individual. The term “direct identifier” denotes any single datum that alone is deemed sufficient to yield a high risk of disclosure if released, such as social security numbers, full names, or biometric records.

Development of Data Security Plan 

The contractor shall present a detailed security plan that expands upon what was presented in the proposal to the COR for approval. In order to ensure the anonymity of individual respondents, the contractor must draft and execute this plan in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, and policies governing the security of data, particularly PII. These include (but are not necessarily limited to):

Section 183 of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002, which states:

IN GENERAL.—All collection, maintenance, use, and wide

dissemination of data by the Institute, including each office, board,

committee, and center of the Institute, shall conform with the

requirements of section 552a of title 5, United States Code, the

confidentiality standards of subsection (c) of this section, and sections

444 and 445 of the General Education Provisions Act (20

U.S.C. 1232g, 1232h).

(b)  STUDENT INFORMATION.—The Director shall ensure that

all individually identifiable information about students, their academic

achievements, their families, and information with respect

to individual schools, shall remain confidential in accordance with

section 552a of title 5, United States Code, the confidentiality

standards of subsection © of this section, and sections 444 and

445 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g,

1232h);

The Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579, U.S.C. 552a);

The E-Government Act of 2002 (H.R. 2458/S. 803);

The relevant sections of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations entitled “Protection of Human Subjects” (45 CFR 46); 

The U. S. Department of Education Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy (June 2005);

Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-06-19, “Reporting Incidents Involving Personally Identifiable Information and Incorporating the Cost of Security in Agency Information Technology Investments”;

The contractor shall enforce strict procedures for ensuring confidentiality.  These procedures shall apply to all phases of the project and should include but not be limited to:

Data collection in the field;

The transfer of PII in any format, including paper records and electronic data files;

Coding and editing phases of data prior to machine processing; and,

Safeguarding and storage of master data files and response/collection documents, including CATI records.

The data security plan shall be written to place particular emphasis on the following aspects of confidentiality and security: 

Guidelines for Transfer of PII

As a general principle, the physical and/or electronic transfer of PII (particularly direct identifiers) shall be limited to the extent practicable. This limitation includes both internal transfers (e.g., transfer of information between agents of the contractor, including subcontractors and/or field workers) and external transfers (e.g., transfers between the contractor and the agency, or between the contractor and another government agency or private entity assisting in data collection).

When it is necessary for the contractor to transfer PII, such transfer must occur in a manner that maximizes the security of information. The data security plan must anticipate the likely modes of data transfer and establish the most secure procedures practicable. The most secure method of transferring sensitive information is not necessarily the most efficient or convenient one.

The preferred means of transferring PII (and particularly direct identifiers) is electronic transfer with 128-bit secure sockets layer (SSL) encryption. 

If electronic PII is transferred via physical media (e.g. a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM is created and sent via courier service or mail), all files on the media shall be encrypted with a strong password (e.g., a random string of letters and numbers) and this password shall be sent separately from the data. In addition, no obvious external markings or information identifying the media as containing PII shall be written, stamped, or otherwise inscribed on the media or its packing material.

If paper records or files must be transferred, the contractor and its agents should avoid transferring multiple direct identifiers in the same shipment. For example, a mailing containing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of subjects is less secure than two (2) mailings, one (1) with the names and addresses and a second with the social security numbers and no additional information. In addition, a mailing of data could be followed up with a telephone (for smaller amounts of PII) or electronic collection of direct identifiers. As above, no obvious external markings or information identifying the mailing as containing PII shall be written, stamped, or otherwise inscribed on the packing material.

Maintenance, Storage, and Use of Direct Identifiers

As a general principal, the number of personnel with access to PII (and particularly direct identifiers) shall be restricted to the minimum practicable.

Under no circumstances may the contractor release PII to unauthorized individuals. In addition, direct identifiers must be maintained in files which are physically separate from other research data, and which are accessible only to sworn agency and contractor personnel. Individual direct identifiers used during the course of the project shall be associated with data only for statistical purposes such as data gathering, matching new data with old, establishing sample composition, authenticating data collections, editing data based on callbacks, or obtaining missing information. 

Replacement of Direct Identifiers with Internal Codes

Although direct identifying information is often required in the data collection process, to the extent practicable the contractor shall use internally generated identifying codes to track subjects in data files. Whenever possible, the transfer and storage of files containing multiple direct identifiers should be avoided. If the transfer of direct identifiers is required for statistical purposes such as data matching, the minimum number of direct identifiers needed for successful matching shall be used.

Security of Master Survey Files

The contractor shall maintain security on the complete set (and deliverable backups) of all master survey files and documentation.

Reporting of Data Security Breaches

If any PII is disclosed inadvertently or is at risk of disclosure due to a lost, missing, or intercepted transfer, the contractor must ensure that this breach is reported to the agency as rapidly as possible. Per Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-06-19, Federal agencies have a requirement to report breaches of PII security to a Federal incident response center within one (1) hour of discovering the incident (and the agency should not distinguish between suspected and confirmed breaches). The data security plan must be written to reflect this requirement, and the contractor must provide sufficient notification to the agency for this requirement to be met.

Task 4.1.3 Adherence to NCES Statistical Standards 

NCES has developed and implemented a set of statistical standards that set guidelines to ensure the quality of NCES’ work (see NCES Statistical Standards, NCES 2003-601).  These standards (as amended) are to be followed by NCES staff and their contractors in performing the day-to-day work of NCES.  A copy of the standards and proposed revisions are available at the website:  . In addition, contractors shall follow content and format guidelines described in the IES style guide, found at: 

Task 4.1.4 Quality Control Measures Requirement

NCES is firmly committed to determining how well each project meets its goal, the quality of data collected, and its implications for future projects.  Project quality control should be integrated into every phase of the project.  For instance, potential problems should be identified early so that possible solutions are tested as part of the field test.  Item reliability and validity tests must be built into the data collection efforts.  Statistical quality control shall be incorporated into each project stage as appropriate.

  

Task 4.1.5 Contractor Employee Security Screening Requirements

The Department has established policy on personnel security screening for all contractor and subcontractor employees and their field staff.  Last updated on 7/7/05, this Departmental directive OM:5-101 is available at: . The contractor must comply with these personnel security-screening requirements throughout the life of the contract.

All contractor and subcontractor employees must undergo personnel security screening if they will be employed for thirty (30) days or more.  The type of screening and the timing of the screening will depend upon the nature of the contractor position, the type of data the contractor employee will have access to or the type of information technology (IT) system they will access.  Personnel security screenings will be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm the individual could cause to the Department.  Hence, each contractor employee working on this contract must be assigned a position risk level.  The criteria for risk levels can be found in Appendix I to OM:5-101.  Depending on the risk level assigned to each person’s position, a follow-up background investigation by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will occur.

The security screening of contractor and subcontractor employees must follow these requirements and steps:

The contractor must identify one (1) of their employees as a security liaison for this process.  This Contractor Security Liaison coordinates the distribution, collection, and dissemination of various forms required in this process.  They answer general questions of their employees on completing the security screening process.  And, they are the first point of contact for contractor employees in using the OPM’s Internet based security screening portal called e-QIP ().

OPM’s e-QIP system is the first step in the process of completing some of the required contractor employee security forms.  Each contractor employee will have an e-QIP account set up for their security form processing.  A computer with Internet access and web browsing software is required for the contractor employee to access their e-QIP account.  To initiate these accounts, the Contractor Security Liaison works with the COR and provides the NCES Security Representative the following:

A listing of all contractor and subcontractor employees (including field staff).  For each contractor employee, provide name, position title, E-mail address, risk level, and start work date.  This list is provided to the COR who reviews it for completeness.

A completed hard copy Request for Security Officer Action (RSA) Form (attached to this statement of work) for each contractor employee.  The completed form for each contractor employee must be provided to the COR.  On the RSA Form, the contractor employee shall complete only those items in section 1 of the form (name, date of birth, place of birth, organization, position title, duty station, social security number, and work phone number).  The COR completes section 5 (Project Requiring Highest ADP Level) and section 6 (Special Action Request).

The COR provides the completed listing and RSA Form(s) to the NCES Security Representative.  The NCES Security Representative sets up the e-QIP accounts for each contractor employee.  The contractor employee will receive an E-mail stating they have access to the e-QIP system.  The Contractor Security Liaison will be cc’d on this E-mail notification.

Once an e-QIP account has been set-up for each contractor employee, each employee will have only 21 calendar days to enter his or her information into the e-QIP system.  Once the forms on the e-QIP system have been completed, contractor employees must print out the signature pages from these forms.  The contractor employees must sign and date the signature pages.  These completed signature pages are sent to the Contractor Security Liaison.

Each contractor employee must also fill out other forms not in the e-QIP system.  The Declaration of Federal Employment (OPM form OF-306) and the Fair Credit Release Form must also be completed.  Fingerprinting is also required of each contractor employee.  The Contractor Security Liaison shall help arrange fingerprinting for each contractor and subcontractor employee using form FD-258.  Fingerprinting can usually be done at a local police station.

Once all forms are completed, the Contractor Security Liaison collects the following items from each contractor employee: copy of RSA form, signed signature pages from the e-QIP system, fingerprint card (FD-258), Declaration of Federal Employment (OPM form OF-306), and the Fair Credit Release Form.

The Contractor Security Liaison sends all of these items to the COR via courier (e.g.: Federal Express) with a tracking number and signature required.  The COR reviews all items for completeness for each contractor employee.  If complete, the COR will submit these items to the NCES Security Representative for final processing.

At any time a contractor or subcontractor employee (including any field staff) discontinues work on the contract, the contractor shall notify the COR within three (3) days of the date that the employee is no longer working on the contract.  The contractor shall provide the reason why the employee is no longer working on the contract.  The COR will provide this information to the NCES Security Representative.

The contractor shall verify with the COR that the security screening processes have not changed by the time the contract is active.

Task 4.1.6 Requirement of Affidavit of Nondisclosure

Any contractor employee needing access to confidential information shall first sign an Affidavit of Nondisclosure.  Before any contractor employee starts work on the contract and has access to confidential information, a signed Affidavit of Nondisclosure must be completed.  As new staff start and require access to confidential information or as staff who originally did not require such access subsequently need it, an Affidavit of Nondisclosure shall be executed for them on the first working day of the assignment.  The contractor shall indicate the position in the organization of the person signing the Affidavit of Nondisclosure, and the person’s functional relationship to this project in a memorandum provided to the COR.

The contractor shall execute these Affidavits of Nondisclosure and the contractor shall maintain the originals at its office.  The contractor shall make Acrobat PDF copies of new Affidavits as they are completed and deliver them to the COR on a bimonthly basis throughout the term of the contract.  The contractor shall be able to produce the original hard copies of the Affidavits within a few hours notice from the COR.  Copies of the Affidavits shall also be made available upon request from NCES’ data security officer.

Task 4.1.7 Security and Confidentiality Training for Contractor Staff

During the course of work on the tasks in this contract, contractor employees will be collecting, storing, editing, and otherwise handling data that are confidential.  Given the restrictions on the use and handling of confidential information, all contractor employees with access to confidential information related to this contract shall be required to participate in NCES approved security and confidentiality training.

Task 4.1.8 Information Collection Request (ICR) Requirement

All respondents asked to participate in data collection initiatives shall be informed of the following:

NCES enabling legislation which authorizes the information collection,

Purposes for which the information is needed;

Uses that may be made of the information,

That data will not be reported in a way to reveal individual responses,

Participation is voluntary, and

No adverse action will result if the requested information is not provided.

Survey respondents, if they so request, must be given access to their records and be permitted to amend their responses.

Security is a major concern of NAEP in every aspect of the project—integrity of data, confidentiality of information, preventing disclosure of personally identifiable data, security of test items and test booklets, and embargoed results. The threats can be from accidental or intentional disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, and from unauthorized modification or destruction of data.  The Contractor shall comply with the Privacy Act, NCES Confidentiality Procedures, and Department of Education ADP Security Manual (a copy is available in Information Technology Services, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202). 

The contractor shall follow procedures that conform to federal privacy laws and NCES privacy standards, and are required to maintain an approved Security and Confidentiality Plan.  The details of such plans and reports on adherence to them may be required for technical reports. 

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

The NAEP project is comprised of a number of procurements being carried out simultaneously.  Not only must the ICT contractor work with the core operations functions of NAEP represented by the Alliance team work together, the Alliance members must interconnect and coordinate with other NAEP contractors and grantees (e.g., quality assurance, and information dissemination,) as requested by NCES.

Task 4.2.1 Participate in Contractors Meetings

Two (2) Contractor Meetings in Washington, DC and additional smaller meetings or teleconferences as needed are intended to keep all contractors up to date on the status of all parts of the project.  Each contractor shall send key personnel and additional staff as appropriate to the meetings to discuss the flow of work within and across contracts. At these meetings, status on key operations will be discussed; the need for policy and design changes explored and potential problems and strategic fallback plans developed.  

Each contractor shall provide the Alliance Coordination contractor with a statement of pertinent issues relevant to the coordination of the project at least 2 calendar days in advance of the meeting. In consultation with NCES, the Alliance Coordinator will consolidate these items into a single agenda.  Within 2 weeks following the meeting, the AC contractor shall submit a meeting summary that specifies issues discussed and agreed upon action plans related to the specific. These summaries, approved by the COR, shall constitute a commitment to carry out the agreed upon action plan.

The same level of effort is expected for this task in all option years.



Task 4.2.2 Negotiations among Contractors

In addition to issues covered at the contractor meetings, issues will arise in the course of the project where one (1) contractor’s work will have an impact on that of another. For example, the sample weighting might have an impact on the production of group estimates.  Not only does the product from one (1) contractor have an impact on the next contractor’s work, the timeliness in which it is completed can also make a major difference in whether the overall schedule can be maintained.

In the interests of being fully informed and actively participating in critical decision-making, NCES should be contacted. Whenever coordination of two (2) activities is required and an issue affecting timeliness arises, the contractors involved shall provide a memo to NCES describing the issue, a summary of the discussions between contractors, and a description of how the issue has been resolved.  This memorandum shall be sent to the appropriate COR(s) within one (1) day of the discussions.

The same level of effort is expected for this task in all option years.



Task 4.2.3 IMT/OMB Clearance Package 

The ICT contractor shall have responsibility for submitting all clearance packages for conducting the NAEP survey; each contractor shall prepare documentation of all required information relevant to their contract at the request of the Alliance Coordinator for inclusion in all such packages.   

There are two (2) types of OMB packages produced for the NAEP assessment – a system clearance package that is submitted every three (3) years, and specific OMB packages for each part of NAEP.  The system clearance package projects what will be conducted in NAEP during the three-year (3) period.  It takes 120 days of review from submission.  In contrast, the specific OMB package for such activities as cognitive labs involving more than nine (9) subjects is produced as needed.  It contains the questionnaires that are needed for a specific data collection and takes 45 days for review. While the assembly and submission of the entire IMT/OMB clearance package is the responsibility of the Alliance Coordination contractor, the science ICT contractor is responsible for preparing all relevant materials (e.g., rationales, sample size, protocols) to submit to the Alliance contractor in the negotiated time period.

Each contractor shall follow these instructions and consult closely with the Alliance Coordination Contractor. Each contractor should expect that changes to the forms clearance documents would be required before a final draft will be ready for submission.  All changes requested by NCES, IMT, or OMB shall be made by the contractors as requested by the COR and submitted electronically for quick turnaround.

This task is not applicable to the base year.  The contractor shall perform this task in option years 1 and 2.

  

Task 4.2.4 Technical Reports

High quality technical documentation has been a priority of NAEP. In addition to the broad audience for the Nation’s Report Card and other substantive NAEP reports, there is an audience of educational researchers, professors, oversight groups, NCES staff, and future contractors who need more in-depth information about all aspects of the assessment than the technical appendices the NAEP reports provide.  

For each assessment cycle, the DAR contractor shall produce technical documentation, with input from a Technical Documentation Working Group that includes NCES and those contractors involved in the various phases of the assessments. Contractors shall prepare materials suitable for both hard copy and Web-based reporting. The Alliance Coordination contractor shall facilitate meetings of the Technical Documentation Working Group.  Each Technical Documentation Working Group shall produce a management plan for producing the report and each contractor shall contribute their assigned portion of the material according to the timelines designated in that plan.  At a minimum, each contractor shall document all activities undertaken, methodologies employed, reviews and approvals obtained, quality control steps employed, problems encountered, and solutions enacted. 

This task is not applicable to the base year.  The contractor shall perform this task in option year 4 only.



Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3.1 National Assessment Governing Board

Designated representatives from each contractor shall attend the National Assessment Governing Board (the Governing Board) meetings when topics relevant to project work will be discussed.  These quarterly meetings (see scheduled locations posted on the Governing Board’s website: www.nagb.org) will often require input or presentation from one or more contractors.  There also may be Governing Board Committee and staff meetings where NCES will ask that one or more NAEP contractors provide information.  Each contractor shall provide the information and materials as requested by the COR.  

In addition, the Governing Board staff may request that NCES provide support from NAEP contractors for Governing Board activities, such as framework development, item review, achievement levels, and complaint resolution.  This may include—but is not limited to—attendance at meetings of the Governing Board Technical Advisory Committee on Standard Setting, and support for the Governing Board contract for achievement level setting, and with assessment booklets, item data, and scoring rubrics when applicable.  Each contractor should plan to participate in up to 12 such briefings per annum.

All requests from the Governing Board to any NAEP contractor must come through NCES, and contractors shall not proceed on any work under this task without prior approval from the COR.  Within 1 week of any meeting, each contractor involved shall provide a memorandum describing discussions and issues that took place and the potential impact on the contractor’s scope of work.

The same level of effort is expected for this task in all option years.



Task 4.3.2 Prepare Briefing Materials and Participate in Alliance Briefings

NCES periodically will provide interested individuals and organizations with information about the nature, findings, and progress of the various NAEP projects.  In addition, NAEP may be required to provide information for briefings to Congress, other federal agencies, and OMB.  Each contractor shall develop briefing materials and provide briefings as specified elsewhere in the SOW for the respective components.  In addition, there will be occasions where NCES will ask the Alliance Coordinator to facilitate materials/briefings that require input from one or more of the Alliance contractors.

Each contractor shall prepare for and provide briefings and demonstrations about their activities and findings in collaboration with the Alliance Coordinator.  Examples of the kinds of meetings at which the contractor(s) might be asked to present preliminary findings from the main study are the annual meetings of the:

Federal and State sponsored conferences and workshops,

Federal and State Legislative Committee meetings,

American Educational Research Association sessions,

The Council of Chief State School Officers’ Large Scale Assessment Conference, 

Other professional association meetings as appropriate.

NCES will give as much notice as possible for these materials and/or briefings, but contractors should be prepared to submit an initial set of briefing materials to the Alliance Coordinator within 1 week of the request, and to make necessary revisions to the materials based on NCES’ review, and resubmit the materials within 3 days of receipt of comments.  Each contractor should plan to provide up to 12 such briefings per year.

The same level of effort is expected for this task in all option years.



Task 4.3.3 State Service Center and State NAEP Coordinators

With the new legislation, State participation in NAEP will become a more prominent feature.  So that States can benefit most from this participation, NCES will fund a full-time NAEP coordinator position in each state.  It will be this coordinator’s responsibility to not only serve as a liaison between NAEP contractors and the State Education Agency, it will also be to provide ongoing information, support and analysis and reporting services to the State.  The NAEP program will primarily support this function through a separately funded State Service Center.  

Each contractor shall provide support to the State Service Center and any related programs as directed by the COR.  Contractors should be prepared to provide such things as background information, briefings, quick-turn-around analyses, sample items, and sampling plans as requested.  The COR will give as much notice as possible for these materials and briefings, but contractors should be prepared to submit materials within 1 week of the request. 

In addition, the NAEP State Coordinators will meet up to 3 times a year.  Each contractor shall have staff attend these meetings as appropriate.  In these instances they will be expected to make presentations describing and explaining particular aspects of the program.

The same level of effort is expected for this task in all option years.



Task 4.3.4 NAEP Public Web Site:  “The Nation’s Report Card” 

NAEP is committed to comprehensive reporting to the general public, educators, policy makers and others who influence American education and maintains an ongoing, frequently updated public Web Site. While the Web Technology Development, Operations and Maintenance contractor will oversee operation of the site, and provide support and quality control, each contractor will be responsible for developing content and tools for the public site.  Reports, released items and sample student work, public use files, compendia, and summary data tables are examples of material that will be placed on the public Web Site. 

The contractor shall coordinate with the Web/Technology contractor and provide all support necessary to ensure that the NAEP public Web Site contains timely and quality content and tools that are substantially error-free and in compliance with NCES and all other applicable web standards.

Task 4.3.5 Quality Assurance 

In order to uphold NCES and NAEP high standards for all areas of their work, efforts to anticipate and isolate areas with potential for errors must be constant.  To help and provide feedback for the purpose of continuous improvement in the NAEP processes and procedures, NCES awards a contract for Quality Assurance of the NAEP Program to a contractor not otherwise associated with the NAEP Alliance.  The Quality Assurance Contractor will assist in the development of a comprehensive and coordinated program of activities to ensure the quality of the NAEP program. 

The new NAEP legislation requires that ED provide for continuing review of the assessments by independent professional assessment evaluation organization(s).  Such reviews are to address various aspects of the assessments including whether:  test questions are biased; assessments are administered as a random sample, and consistent with relevant widely accepted professional assessment standards; surveys are producing high quality data that are valid and reliable, including student achievement data not otherwise available to States; assessments are measuring, consistent with the legislation, reading ability, and mathematical knowledge; and NAEP is reporting trends in academic achievement in a valid and reliable manner. 

Each contractor shall provide full support for all such reviews of NAEP.  These requirements are likely to include the provision of substantial information and access-- such as announced and unannounced site visits and requests to view documents, and requests to obtain flowcharts of operations and processes--and key contractor staff may be asked to participate in up to five meetings per year.  Each contractor should incorporate provision of the resources needed for such activities into their proposals.

In option years, the same level of effort is expected from the contractor to submit quality assurance materials.



Task 4.4 Movement of Project Materials

Task 4.4.1 Project Beginning



During the course of the contract, each of the other contractors may need access to various subsets of materials that have been stored. These materials will be shipped on an as needed basis from the contractor responsible for that component.   

Task 4.4.2 Storage, Protection, and Transfer of NAEP Materials at Project Completion 

During the course of the contract, NAEP contractors shall provide facilities for ensuring the security of all NAEP materials. This applies to items under development, reviewer documents, copyright agreements, and any other documents that NCES specifies. The contractor will comply with the Privacy Act Security Procedures, the Department of Education’s OM: 5-101 Directive, NCES Confidentiality Procedures.  The contractor will present its plan for providing for the Departments’ security requirements.  The contractor will develop security procedures to preclude unauthorized personnel from gaining access to any online documents, include cognitive items that are not public domain.



Close to the end of the contract, the contractor shall prepare for the transfer of all relevant project materials (e.g., tasks, copyright agreements and task profile record) to the government and the next contractor. The contractor will be responsible for providing a secure facility to protect the materials from flooding, fire and theft.



This task is not applicable to the base year.  In option year 4, the contractor shall perform this task.







Task 4.5 Other Requirements

This section includes requirements that apply to all tasks and deliverables of all contractors, but do not have specific deliverables attached here.

Task 4.5.1 Achieving a Goal of Diversity at All Levels of Staffing

NCES is especially interested in having diversity represented at every level of professional responsibility within each of the Alliance contractors. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that important perspectives that might otherwise be overlooked be brought to light so as to better serve all the constituencies that have a stake in NAEP.  These diverse perspectives may be based on gender, race/ethnicity, and educational qualifications.  

Task 4.5.2 Ownership

While rendering the ICTs, the ICT contractor should give strong consideration to implementing Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) software applications with developer licenses and open source libraries. All code developed shall be open source and NAEP owned. This includes new development and enhancements to existing applications or commercial off the shelf (COTS) products.  All source code will be transferred to NAEP.  Under no circumstances shall proprietary code be used or embedded within the software code unless ownership and property rights are transferred to the Department of Education.

Task 4.5.3 NCES Statistical Standards and Review Procedures

NCES has a policy of reviewing all draft publications prior to publication under its logo, in order to ensure that all its work is subjected to peer assessment with respect to professional standards for accurate analyses and warranted statistical inferences. NCES’ goal is that its publications demonstrate intellectual rigor, clarity of expression, accessibility to the intended audience, and utility. To meet this goal, NCES requires that its statistical guidelines apply to the statistical reports it publishes and submits its draft publications to peer review prior to clearance for publication. Such reports shall follow guidelines referenced by the most current publication NCES Statistical Standards. Exceptions may be granted for the NAEP Report Cards to take into account the Governing Board’s Reporting Policies and Guidelines.  

NAEP reports are classified regarding whether they are initial release of NAEP data.  Those reports that are not initial release must adhere to all NCES Statistical Standards.  In addition, they are submitted for peer review prior to clearance for publication. Initial release reports must adhere to most of the NCES Statistical Standards, but are granted dispensation from a few standards in order to meet Governing Board policy on user-friendliness of reports.

Contractors shall plan adequate time and resources to allow for these procedures for every draft publication submitted as a deliverable.

Task 4.5.4 Corporate Capabilities

The contractor shall maintain the required capacity to carry out the requirements contained in the statement of work.  This includes adequate resources (such as facilities and equipment), staffing (both professional and support), and fiscal accountability needed to carry out the required activities for a program of NAEP’s magnitude and scope.  The contractor shall advise the COR of any changes in facilities, equipment, or staff involved in the work described in this statement of work at least 1 month prior to such change.

Each component of the RFP will indicate any specialized requirements for staff qualifications (if any).  In addition, the proposed project director and key staff must possess a demonstrated ability to meet deadlines and produce high quality products within budget, and have a long-term commitment to the study.  


III.   Schedule of Deliverables for Tasks 1, 3 and 4



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a firm, fixed-priced contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  In order to get the full payment, the contractor needs to meet the standards specified in the column of “Acceptable Quality Measures”.





Schedule of Deliverables for Task 2

The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a cost plus award fee contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  





SCOPE OF WORK FOR OPTION YEAR ONE



The following tasks shall be carried forward from the base year contract:

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 2.1 Implementation Plan

Task 2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Task 2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Task 2.8 Translation

Task 2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.3 Provide Support



Option year 1: Schedule of Deliverables for Task 1, 3, and 4



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a firm, fixed-priced contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  In order to get the full payment, the contractor needs to meet the standards specified in the column of “Acceptable Quality Measures”.





Option Year 1 Schedule of Deliverables for Task 2



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a cost plus award fee contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  







SCOPE OF WORK FOR OPTION YEAR TWO



The following tasks shall be carried forward to option year 2 from the base year contract:

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 2.1 Implementation Plan

Task 2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks 

Task 2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks

Task 2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment  

Task 2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Task 2.7 Determining Content Validity of Tasks

Task 2.8 Translation

Task 2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.3 Provide Support



Option year 2: Schedule of Deliverables for Task 1, 3, and 4

The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a firm, fixed-priced contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  In order to get the full payment, the contractor needs to meet the standards specified in the column of “Acceptable Quality Measures”.





Option Year 2 Schedule of Deliverables for Task 2



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a cost plus award fee contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  







SCOPE OF WORK FOR OPTION YEAR THREE



The following tasks shall be carried forward to option year 3 from the base year contract:

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 2.1 Implementation Plan

Task 2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks 

Task 2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks

Task 2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment  

Task 2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Task 2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Task 2.10 Item Quality Review Meeting

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.3 Provide Support



Option year 3:  Schedule of Deliverables for Task 1, 3, and 4



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a firm, fixed-priced contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  In order to get the full payment, the contractor needs to meet the standards specified in the column of “Acceptable Quality Measures”.





Option Year 3:  Schedule of Deliverables for Task 2



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a cost plus award fee contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  







SCOPE OF WORK FOR OPTION YEAR FOUR



The following tasks shall be carried forward to option year 4 from the base year contract:

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks 

Task 2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.3 Provide Support



Option year 4:  Schedule of Deliverables for Task 1, 3, and 4



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a firm, fixed-priced contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  In order to get the full payment, the contractor needs to meet the standards specified in the column of “Acceptable Quality Measures”.





Option Year 4:  Schedule of Deliverables for Task 2



The contractor shall submit the following deliverables under a cost plus award fee contract to the COR for review and approval, unless otherwise indicated.  









Grade 

level

Planning/

Development

Developing/

Cognitive labs

Pilot Test

2015 Operational 

Assessment

Task pool

4

60

60

60

10

20

8 

60

60

60

10

20

12

60

60

60

10

20



Deliverable

Due Date

Final agendas for the two project initiation meetings



One (1) week before each of the two meetings

Memorandums of key decisions and actions



One (1) week after each of the two project initiation meetings

Convening two initiation meetings

Within the first four (4) weeks of contract award



Deliverable

Due Date

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas



One (1) week before each meeting

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums 



One (1) week after each monthly meeting

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 



ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Draft master schedule

Two (2) weeks after the second project initiation meeting



Final master schedule

One (1) week after receipt of the COR comments and updated annually on October 1 or as negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities

First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 1 and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year



Final annual work schedule 

One week after receipt of the COR comments on the draft annual work schedule



Deliverable

Due Date

Draft annual quality control plan 

The year-one plan due six (6) weeks after the first project initiation meeting, and annually thereafter by the end of August



Final annual quality control plan 

One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes



Deliverable

Due Date

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month 



Deliverable

Due Date

Staffing plan 

Six (6) weeks from contract award 



Milestone

Due Date

Draft Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan submitted to NCES

Two (2) weeks after the second project initiation meeting



Deliverable

Due Date

Final Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to NAEP Alliance contractor

Two (2) weeks after the COR comment on the draft, and updated each year thereafter by October 15



Milestone

Due Date

Completed initial consultation with the ID contractor 

Within one (1) month of contract award



Deliverable

Due Date

Status report of the review of the existing item/task pool and implications for ICT development

Within six (6) weeks of contract award



Milestone

Due Date

Draft item development plan

Six (6) weeks from contract award or as negotiated with the COR



Initial task concepts or outlines for all tasks



As negotiated with the COR

Draft of all tasks for the pilot test

As negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Final item development plan





Within two (2) weeks from receipt of NCES’ comments

Templates for a representative sample of the types of tasks



Along with the item development plan or as negotiated with the COR

Final task concepts or outlines for all tasks

Four (4) weeks after receipt of NAGB review of initial task concepts or outlines or as negotiated with the COR



Findings from sensitivity/bias analysis



Two (2) weeks after the activity



Cognitive lab report on findings and recommended modifications



Two (2) weeks after the cognitive lab/small-scale testing, or as negotiated with the COR



A minimum of sixty (60) approved tasks (or a minimum of 2 to 1 ratio of the number required) for each grade 4, 8 and 12 submitted to the Web/Technology contractor





Within five (5) months prior to the pilot test or as negotiated with the COR

A minimum of ten (10) approved tasks per grade level for the 2015 assessment with an additional pool of a minimum of 20 tasks per grade level for subsequent special studies and assessment



Within five (5) months prior to the 2015 assessment or as negotiated with the COR

Task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks

Upon request by the COR







Deliverable

Due Date

Evaluation of whether the task statistics and selection of tasks fulfill the within block design plan

Two (2) weeks after pilot data has been reviewed 



Milestone

Due Date

Draft meeting agenda with a review outline to reflect the meeting goal



Six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

Data to be reviewed at the meeting

Ten (10) business days prior to the meeting





Deliverable

Due Date

Report providing evidence that the selected tasks reach sufficient quality standards and represent good coverage of the domain 

Within two (2) weeks of task selection 



Deliverable

Due Date

Final scoring rubrics

Five (5) months before the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

 

Final set of training materials for each constructed-response item with annotated scoring rubrics

One (1) month prior to the beginning of scoring of the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)



Deliverable

Due Date

Report on the content validity study 

Within two (2) weeks of task selection for the operational assessment 



Milestone

Due Date

Draft translation plan 



Six (6) weeks after the contract award 

Initial translations submitted to the Alliance contractor for review and verification

As negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Final translation plan

Three (3) months prior to the beginning of the translation



Report documenting issues, recommended modifications, and lessons learned of the translation process



Two (2) weeks following the translation review meeting 

Final version of the science ICT assessment for Spanish-speaking ELL students submitted to NCES

Five (5) months before pilot testing or as negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Report documenting the status of all copyright permissions active in NAEP Science ICTs, the associated costs, and the schedule for renewal during the upcoming year 

Upon request by the COR 



Milestone

Due Date

Draft meeting agenda with a review outline to reflect the meeting goals

Three (3) months prior to the meeting

Data to be reviewed at the meeting

Ten (10) business days prior to the meeting



Deliverable

Due Date

Revised meeting agenda



Two (2) months prior to the meeting

Memorandum of the quality review meeting that includes overall comments on the quality of the item pool, decision on items to release, identified quality issues, key decisions and action items

Within one (1) week of the meeting



Deliverable

Due Date

List of proposed members including information related to affiliation, location, and area of expertise



Within 30 days of contract award 

Agenda for each meeting



At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable



Four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and paper) if needed



At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages 



Four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES



Two (2) weeks prior to meetings

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting



Deliverable

Due Date

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable



At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and paper) if needed



At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

Briefing document

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting, due along with the review packages



Draft electronic and/or paper review packages



At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings

Final electronic and paper review packages submitted to NCES

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings



Deliverable

Due Date

Agenda for each meeting



At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

List of facilitators to NCES



Within ten (10) days of request or as negotiated with the COR



Power Point presentation to the group if applicable



Four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and paper) if needed



At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

Draft electronic and/or paper review package



At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

Final electronic and/or paper review package



Two (2) weeks prior to the meeting

Minutes of the meeting that include an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting







Deliverable

Due Date

Security and Confidentiality Plan approved by COR



Within 2 weeks of award



Deliverable

Due Date

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting



Meeting summary

Within one (1) week following meeting



Deliverable

Due Date

Summary memorandum

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors



Deliverable

Due Date

Draft OMB clearance package submitted to COR



Eight (8) weeks prior to submission to the Alliance coordination contractor

Final OMB clearance package submitted to the COR



Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES comments on the draft 

Approved OMB clearance package submitted to the Alliance contractor

Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES approval



Deliverable

Due Date

Technical report text & tables approved by the COR 

One (1) month prior to the completion date for consolidated report 



Deliverable

Due Date

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request by the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Briefing materials as directed by COR

Upon request by the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Briefing materials as directed by COR

Upon request by the COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES



Within 1 month of award

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR



Deliverable

Due Date

Memorandum documenting transfer of assessment materials



Within five (5) days of request or as negotiated with the COR

Documentation of security procedures

As negotiated with the COR

























Deliverable

Estimated Due Date

Acceptable Quality Measures

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meeting with NCES

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meeting with NCES

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meeting with NCES

Final agendas for the two project initiation meetings

One (1) week before each of the two meetings

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Memorandums of key decisions and actions

One (1) week after each of the two project initiation meetings

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Convening two initiation meetings

Within the first four (4) weeks of contract award

The contractor shall convene meetings by due date.

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

One (1) week before each meeting

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

One (1) week after each monthly meeting

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 

The contractor shall initiate and participate in weekly meeting as negotiated with COR.

ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR

The contractor shall initiate and participate in the ICT working meetings as negotiated with COR.

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Draft master schedule

Two (2) weeks after the second project initiation meeting

The draft master schedule shall include comprehensive schedule of the ICT contractor and Alliance contractors’ major handoffs/deliverables/activities including NCES reviews presented in a logical sequence by due date . 

Final master schedule 

One (1) week after receipt of the COR comments and updated annually on October 1 or as negotiated with the COR

The final master schedule shall reflect the COR’s comments on the draft and be accurately updated on the IMS by the due date.

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities



First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 1 and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year

The annual work schedule shall indicate, in a logical sequence, detailed timelines and completion dates for all ICT contractor activities and deliverables for each year by due date. 

Final annual work schedule

One week after receipt of the COR comments on the draft annual work schedule

The final annual work schedule shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the draft schedule and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

The year-one plan due six (6) weeks after the first project initiation meeting, and annually thereafter by the end of August

The draft quality control plan shall (1) describe and document in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that will be implemented and maintained for every activity; (2) include all handoffs and collaborations with other NAEP contractors; and (3) reflect the comments and discussions during the first project initiation meeting by due date.

Final annual quality control plan 



One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes

The final plan shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the revised plan and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month

The report shall accurately and completely include the items specified in Task 1.6 of the PWS and be submitted by the due date.

Task 1.7 Staffing Plan

Task 1.7 Staffing Plan

Task 1.7 Staffing Plan

Staffing plan 



Six (6) weeks from contract award 

The plan shall (1) include a description of job functions, organization chart and a list of key personnel (with vitae reflecting the qualifications specified in the PSW Task 1.7) 

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

List of proposed members including information related to affiliation, location, and area of expertise

Within 30 days of contract award

The list should include each member’s information related to affiliation, location, and area of expertise by due date.

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four(4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language and   reflect comments received from the COR by due date. 

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .  

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The draft package shall (1) be in the format of the approved mock-up and (2) reflect COR comments on the mock-up submitted by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Two (2) weeks prior to meetings

The review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft package and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date. 

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.1 Requirements for Data Collection and Processing

Task 4.1 Requirements for Data Collection and Processing

Task 4.1 Requirements for Data Collection and Processing

Security and Confidentiality Plan approved by COR 

Within 2 weeks of award

The plan shall describe the procedure (1) to assure confidentiality of all documents, data and other information supplied by NCES/Ed or acquired in the course of performance of this contract, and (2) to maintain the required security and protection of confidential information.  The final plan shall reflect the COR comments on the draft and submitted by due date.

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting

The statement shall include a list of pertinent issues relevant to coordination of the ICT contractor with other NAEP contractors.  The final statement submitted to the Alliance contractor shall reflect the COR comments and submitted by due date.

Meeting summary 

Within one (1) week following the contractors meeting

The summary shall accurately record meeting discussions (including issues, recommendations and action items) related to the ICT contract, and be submitted by the due date.

Summary memorandum 

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors

The memo shall (1) describe the issue affecting timeliness of the ICT project, (2) provide a summary accurately reflecting the discussions with relevant contractors, and (3) report how the issue has been resolved and memo submitted by due date.

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date.

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

Within 1 month of award

The MOU should describe in detail how each contractor shall coordinate various ICT activities. The MOU should identify key personnel, roles and responsibilities and schedule of activities.

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR

Materials are accurate, meets specified requirements and submitted by due date.



Task

Deliverable

Due Date

2.1   Implementation Plan

Final Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to NAEP Alliance contractor

Two (2) weeks after the COR comment on the draft, and updated each year thereafter by October 15

2.2 Review of Existing Item/Task Pool

Status report of the review of the existing item/task pool and implications for ICT development

Within six (6) weeks of contract award

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Final item development plan



Within two (2) weeks from receipt of NCES’ comments

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Templates for a representative sample of the types of tasks

Along with the item development plan or as negotiated with the COR



Deliverable

Estimated Due Date

Acceptable Quality Measures

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

One (1) week before each meeting

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

One (1) week after each monthly meeting

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 

The contractor shall initiate and participate in weekly meeting as negotiated with COR.

ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR

The contractor shall initiate and participate in the ICT working meetings as negotiated with COR.

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Master schedule 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The master schedule shall reflect the COR’s comments on the draft and be accurately updated on the IMS by the due date.

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities



First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 1 and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year

The annual work schedule shall indicate, in a logical sequence, detailed timelines and completion dates for all ICT contractor activities and deliverables for each year by due date. 

Final annual work schedule

One week after receipt of the COR comments on the draft annual work schedule

The final annual work schedule shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the draft schedule and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The draft quality control plan shall (1) describe and document in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that will be implemented and maintained for every activity; (2) include all handoffs and collaborations with other NAEP contractors; and (3) reflect the comments and discussions during the first project initiation meeting by due date.

Final annual quality control plan 



One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes

The final plan shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the revised plan and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month

The report shall accurately and completely include the items specified in Task 1.6 of the PWS and be submitted by the due date.

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four(4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language and   reflect comments received from the COR by due date. 

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .  

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The draft package shall (1) be in the format of the approved mock-up and (2) reflect COR comments on the mock-up submitted by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Two (2) weeks prior to meetings

The review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft package and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date. 

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language, reflect comments received from the COR and submitted by due date. 

Mock-up of the review package if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .

Briefing document

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings, due along with the review packages

The briefing document should accurately address topic, use clear and concise language, and submitted by due date.

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings

The draft review package shall reflect the comments received from the standing committee and state item review on the ICT products by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The final review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft version and be submitted by the due date.

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

List of facilitators to NCES

Within ten (10) days of request or as negotiated with the COR

The facilitators shall include item developers familiar with the framework and the tasks to be reviewed. 

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall  reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language, reflect comments received from the COR and submitted by due date. 

Mock-up of the review package if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. 

Draft electronic and/or paper review package

At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The draft review package shall reflect the comments received from the standing committee.

Final electronic and/or paper review package

Two (2) weeks prior to the meeting

The final review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft version and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of the meeting that include an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after the meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date.

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting

The statement shall include a list of pertinent issues relevant to coordination of the ICT contractor with other NAEP contractors.  The final statement submitted to the Alliance contractor shall reflect the COR comments and submitted by due date.

Meeting summary 

Within one (1) week following the contractors meeting

The summary shall accurately record meeting discussions (including issues, recommendations and action items) related to the ICT contract, and be submitted by the due date.

Summary memorandum 

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors

The memo shall (1) describe the issue affecting timeliness of the ICT project, (2) provide a summary accurately reflecting the discussions with relevant contractors, and (3) report how the issue has been resolved and memo submitted by due date.

Draft OMB clearance package submitted to COR

Eight (8) weeks prior to submission to the Alliance coordination contractor

The draft package shall follow the guidelines for OMB clearance package and include all relevant materials such as rationales,  sample size, protocols etc. and submitted by due date.

Final OMB clearance package submitted to the COR 

Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES comments on the mock-up

The final OMB package will reflect comments from the COR on the mock-up and from additional NAEP contractor staff familiar with the OMB process (as agreed to by the COR) and submitted by due date.

Approved OMB clearance package submitted to the Alliance contractor 

Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES approval

Acceptance of this deliverable shall be contingent on OMB approval.

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date.

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

Within 1 month of award

The MOU should describe in detail how each contractor shall coordinate various ICT activities. The MOU should identify key personnel, roles and responsibilities and schedule of activities.

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR

Materials are accurate, meets specified requirements and submitted by due date.



Task

Deliverable

Due Date

2.1   Implementation Plan

Final Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to NAEP Alliance contractor

Two (2) weeks after the COR comment on the draft, and updated each year thereafter by October 15

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Item development plan



Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Templates for a representative sample of the types of tasks

Along with the item development plan or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Final task concepts or outlines for all tasks

Four (4) weeks after receipt of NAGB review of initial task concepts or outlines or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Findings from sensitivity/bias analysis

Two (2) weeks after the activity

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Cognitive lab report on findings and recommended modifications

Two (2) weeks after the cognitive lab/small-scale testing, or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

A minimum of sixty (60) approved tasks (or a minimum of 2 to 1 ratio of the number required) for each grade 4, 8 and 12 submitted to the Web/Technology contractor

Within five (5) months prior to the pilot test or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks

Upon request by the COR

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final scoring rubrics 

Five (5) months before the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final set of training materials for each constructed-response item with annotated scoring rubrics 

one (1) month prior to the beginning of scoring of the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.8 Translation

Final translation plan

Three (3) months prior to the beginning of the translation

2.8 Translation

Report documenting issues, recommended modifications, and lessons learned of the translation process

Two (2) weeks following the translation review meeting

2.8 Translation

Final version of the science ICT assessment for Spanish-speaking ELL students submitted to NCES

Five (5) months before pilot  and operational testing or as negotiated with the COR

2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Report documenting the status of all copyright permissions active in NAEP Science ICTs, the associated costs, and the schedule for renewal during the upcoming year

Upon request by the COR



Deliverable

Estimated Due Date

Acceptable Quality Measures

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

One (1) week before each meeting

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

One (1) week after each monthly meeting

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 

The contractor shall initiate and participate in weekly meeting as negotiated with COR.

ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR

The contractor shall initiate and participate in the ICT working meetings as negotiated with COR.

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Master schedule 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The master schedule shall reflect the COR’s comments on the draft and be accurately updated on the IMS by the due date.

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities



First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 15th and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year

The annual work schedule shall indicate, in a logical sequence, detailed timelines and completion dates for all ICT contractor activities and deliverables for each year by due date. 

Final annual work schedule

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The final annual work schedule shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the draft schedule and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The draft quality control plan shall (1) describe and document in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that will be implemented and maintained for every activity; (2) include all handoffs and collaborations with other NAEP contractors; and (3) reflect the comments and discussions during the first project initiation meeting by due date.

Final annual quality control plan 



One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes

The final plan shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the revised plan and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month

The report shall accurately and completely include the items specified in Task 1.6 of the PWS and be submitted by the due date.

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four(4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language and   reflect comments received from the COR by due date. 

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .  

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The draft package shall (1) be in the format of the approved mock-up and (2) reflect COR comments on the mock-up submitted by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Two (2) weeks prior to meetings

The review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft package and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date. 

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language, reflect comments received from the COR and submitted by due date. 

Mock-up of the review package if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .

Briefing document

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings, due along with the review packages

The briefing document should accurately address topic, use clear and concise language, and submitted by due date.

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings

The draft review package shall reflect the comments received from the standing committee and state item review on the ICT products by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The final review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft version and be submitted by the due date.

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

List of facilitators to NCES

Within ten (10) days of request or as negotiated with the COR

The facilitators shall include item developers familiar with the framework and the tasks to be reviewed. 

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall  reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language, reflect comments received from the COR and submitted by due date. 

Mock-up of the review package if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. 

Draft electronic and/or paper review package

At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The draft review package shall reflect the comments received from the standing committee.

Final electronic and/or paper review package

Two (2) weeks prior to the meeting

The final review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft version and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of the meeting that include an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after the meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date.

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting

The statement shall include a list of pertinent issues relevant to coordination of the ICT contractor with other NAEP contractors.  The final statement submitted to the Alliance contractor shall reflect the COR comments and submitted by due date.

Meeting summary 

Within one (1) week following the contractors meeting

The summary shall accurately record meeting discussions (including issues, recommendations and action items) related to the ICT contract, and be submitted by the due date.

Summary memorandum 

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors

The memo shall (1) describe the issue affecting timeliness of the ICT project, (2) provide a summary accurately reflecting the discussions with relevant contractors, and (3) report how the issue has been resolved and memo submitted by due date.

Draft OMB clearance package submitted to COR

Eight (8) weeks prior to submission to the Alliance coordination contractor

The draft package shall follow the guidelines for OMB clearance package and include all relevant materials such as rationales,  sample size, protocols etc. and submitted by due date.

Final OMB clearance package submitted to the COR 

Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES comments on the mock-up

The final OMB package will reflect comments from the COR on the mock-up and from additional NAEP contractor staff familiar with the OMB process (as agreed to by the COR) and submitted by due date.

Approved OMB clearance package submitted to the Alliance contractor 

Ten (10) business days after receipt of NCES approval

Acceptance of this deliverable shall be contingent on OMB approval.

Technical Report Text & tables approved by the COR 

One (1) month prior to the completion date for consolidated report

Final Technical Report text and tables shall, at a minimum, document all activities undertaken, methodologies employed, reviews and approvals obtained, quality control steps employed, problems encountered, and solutions enacted. They shall meet NCES statistical standards and reflect comments received from the COR on the draft version and submitted by due date

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date.

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

Within 1 month of award

The MOU should describe in detail how each contractor shall coordinate various ICT activities. The MOU should identify key personnel, roles and responsibilities and schedule of activities.

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR

Materials are accurate, meets specified requirements and submitted by due date.



Task

Deliverable

Due Date

2.1   Implementation Plan

Final Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to NAEP Alliance contractor

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Item development plan



Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Final task concepts or outlines for all tasks

Four (4) weeks after receipt of NAGB review of initial task concepts or outlines or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Findings from sensitivity/bias analysis

Two (2) weeks after the activity

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Cognitive lab report on findings and recommended modifications

Two (2) weeks after the cognitive lab/small-scale testing, or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

A minimum of sixty (60) approved tasks (or a minimum of 2 to 1 ratio of the number required) for each grade 4, 8 and 12 submitted to the Web/Technology contractor

Within five (5) months prior to the pilot test or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

A minimum of ten (10) approved tasks per grade level for the 2015 assessment with an additional pool of a minimum of 20 tasks per grade level for subsequent special studies and assessment

Within five (5) months prior to the 2015 assessment or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks

Upon request by the COR

2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks

Evaluation of whether the task statistics and selection of tasks fulfill the within block design plan

Two (2) weeks after pilot data has been reviewed

2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment  

Report providing evidence that the selected tasks reach sufficient quality standards and represent good coverage of the domain  

Within two (2) weeks of task selection 

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final scoring rubrics 

Five (5) months before the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final set of training materials for each constructed-response item with annotated scoring rubrics 

one (1) month prior to the beginning of scoring of the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.7 Determining Content Validity of Tasks

Report on the content validity study

Within two (2) weeks of task selection for the operational assessment

2.8 Translation

Final translation plan

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

2.8 Translation

Report documenting issues, recommended modifications, and lessons learned of the translation process

Two (2) weeks following the translation review meeting

2.8 Translation

Final version of the science ICT assessment for Spanish-speaking ELL students submitted to NCES

Five (5) months before pilot and operational testing or as negotiated with the COR

2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Report documenting the status of all copyright permissions active in NAEP Science ICTs, the associated costs, and the schedule for renewal during the upcoming year

Upon request by the COR



Deliverable

Estimated Due Date

Acceptable Quality Measures

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

One (1) week before each meeting

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

One (1) week after each monthly meeting

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 

The contractor shall initiate and participate in weekly meeting as negotiated with COR.

ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR

The contractor shall initiate and participate in the ICT working meetings as negotiated with COR.

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Master schedule 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The master schedule shall reflect the COR’s comments on the draft and be accurately updated on the IMS by the due date.

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities



First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 1 and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year

The annual work schedule shall indicate, in a logical sequence, detailed timelines and completion dates for all ICT contractor activities and deliverables for each year by due date. 

Final annual work schedule

One week after receipt of the COR comments on the draft annual work schedule

The final annual work schedule shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the draft schedule and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

Updated annually on October 15th  or as negotiated with the COR

The draft quality control plan shall (1) describe and document in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that will be implemented and maintained for every activity; (2) include all handoffs and collaborations with other NAEP contractors; and (3) reflect the comments and discussions during the first project initiation meeting by due date.

Final annual quality control plan 



One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes

The final plan shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the revised plan and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month

The report shall accurately and completely include the items specified in Task 1.6 of the PWS and be submitted by the due date.

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Agenda for each meeting

At least six (6) weeks prior to each meeting

The agenda shall be comprehensive and be submitted by the due date.

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

Four(4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language and   reflect comments received from the COR by due date. 

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .  

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The draft package shall (1) be in the format of the approved mock-up and (2) reflect COR comments on the mock-up submitted by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Two (2) weeks prior to meetings

The review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft package and be submitted by the due date.

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

No later than two (2) weeks after each meeting

The minutes shall (1) accurately record meeting discussions and recommendations, (2) describe action items and schedule, and (3) be submitted by the due date. 

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

At least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting

The Power Point presentation shall reflect the purpose of the meeting, contain clear and accurate language, reflect comments received from the COR and submitted by due date. 

Mock-up of the review package if needed

At least six (6) weeks prior to the meeting

The mock-up package shall  (1) identify the task and task classification information (2) display data in an user-friendly format (3) tailored to the intended user and (4) submitted by due date. .

Briefing document

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings, due along with the review packages

The briefing document should accurately address topic, use clear and concise language, and submitted by due date.

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

At least six (6) weeks prior to meetings

The draft review package shall reflect the comments received from the standing committee and state item review on the ICT products by due date.

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

Four (4) weeks prior to meetings

The final review package shall reflect COR comments on the draft version and be submitted by the due date.

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting

The statement shall include a list of pertinent issues relevant to coordination of the ICT contractor with other NAEP contractors.  The final statement submitted to the Alliance contractor shall reflect the COR comments and submitted by due date.

Meeting summary 

Within one (1) week following the contractors meeting

The summary shall accurately record meeting discussions (including issues, recommendations and action items) related to the ICT contract, and be submitted by the due date.

Summary memorandum 

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors

The memo shall (1) describe the issue affecting timeliness of the ICT project, (2) provide a summary accurately reflecting the discussions with relevant contractors, and (3) report how the issue has been resolved and memo submitted by due date.

Technical Report Text & tables approved by the COR 

One (1) month prior to the completion date for consolidated report

Final Technical Report text and tables shall, at a minimum, document all activities undertaken, methodologies employed, reviews and approvals obtained, quality control steps employed, problems encountered, and solutions enacted. They shall meet NCES statistical standards and reflect comments received from the COR on the draft version and submitted by due date

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date.

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

Within 1 month of award

The MOU should describe in detail how each contractor shall coordinate various ICT activities. The MOU should identify key personnel, roles and responsibilities and schedule of activities.

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR

Materials are accurate, meets specified requirements and submitted by due date.



Task

Deliverable

Due Date

2.1   Implementation Plan

Final Science ICT contract components of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to NAEP Alliance contractor

Updated each year by October 15

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

A minimum of ten (10) approved tasks per grade level for the 2015 assessment with an additional pool of a minimum of 20 tasks per grade level for subsequent special studies and assessment

Within five (5) months prior to the 2015 assessment or as negotiated with the COR

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks

Upon request by the COR

2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks

Evaluation of whether the task statistics and selection of tasks fulfill the within block design plan

Two (2) weeks after pilot data has been reviewed

2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment  

Report providing evidence that the selected tasks reach sufficient quality standards and represent good coverage of the domain  

Within two (2) weeks of task selection 

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final scoring rubrics 

Five (5) months before the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development

Final set of training materials for each constructed-response item with annotated scoring rubrics 

one (1) month prior to the beginning of scoring of the assessment (pilot test and operational assessment)

2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Report documenting the status of all copyright permissions active in NAEP Science ICTs, the associated costs, and the schedule for renewal during the upcoming year

Upon request by the COR

2.10 Item Quality Review Meeting

Revised meeting agenda

Two (2) months prior to the meeting

2.10 Item Quality Review Meeting

Memorandum of the quality review meeting that includes overall comments on the quality of the item pool, decision on items to release, identified quality issues, key decisions and action items

Within one (1) week of the meeting



Deliverable

Estimated Due Date

Acceptable Quality Measures

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

One (1) week before each meeting

The agendas shall be comprehensive and submitted by due dates.

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

One (1) week after each monthly meeting

The memorandums shall reflect meeting discussions, summarize key issues, decisions and action plans, and be submitted by the due date.

Weekly management meetings

Weekly on the date as negotiated with the COR 

The contractor shall initiate and participate in weekly meeting as negotiated with COR.

ICT working group meetings

Periodically as negotiated with the COR

The contractor shall initiate and participate in the ICT working meetings as negotiated with COR.

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Draft master schedule

Two (2) weeks after the second project initiation meeting

The draft master schedule shall include comprehensive schedule of the ICT contractor and Alliance contractors’ major handoffs/deliverables/activities including NCES reviews presented in a logical sequence by due date . 

Master schedule 

Updated annually on October 15th or as negotiated with the COR

The final master schedule shall reflect the COR’s comments on the draft and be accurately updated on the IMS by the due date.

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities



First year draft schedule due five (5) weeks after contract award, annually thereafter on October 1 and as needed to accommodate changes to the schedule within each year

The annual work schedule shall indicate, in a logical sequence, detailed timelines and completion dates for all ICT contractor activities and deliverables for each year by due date. 

Final annual work schedule

One week after receipt of the COR comments on the draft annual work schedule

The final annual work schedule shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the draft schedule and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

Updated annually on October 15th or as negotiated with the COR

The draft quality control plan shall (1) describe and document in detail the quality checks, potential remedies, and procedures that will be implemented and maintained for every activity; (2) include all handoffs and collaborations with other NAEP contractors; and (3) reflect the comments and discussions during the first project initiation meeting by due date.

Final annual quality control plan 



One (1) week from receipt of NCES COR comments on the draft plan or as needed to accommodate changes to the project processes

The final plan shall reflect all comments received from the COR on the revised plan and be submitted by the due date

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

By the tenth of each month

The report shall accurately and completely include the items specified in Task 1.6 of the PWS and be submitted by the due date.

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

Four (4) calendar days prior to each meeting

The statement shall include a list of pertinent issues relevant to coordination of the ICT contractor with other NAEP contractors.  The final statement submitted to the Alliance contractor shall reflect the COR comments and submitted by due date.

Meeting summary 

Within one (1) week following the contractors meeting

The summary shall accurately record meeting discussions (including issues, recommendations and action items) related to the ICT contract, and be submitted by the due date.

Summary memorandum 

Within one (1) day following discussions/negotiations among contractors

The memo shall (1) describe the issue affecting timeliness of the ICT project, (2) provide a summary accurately reflecting the discussions with relevant contractors, and (3) report how the issue has been resolved and memo submitted by due date.

Technical Report Text & tables approved by the COR 

One (1) month prior to the completion date for consolidated report

Final Technical Report text and tables shall, at a minimum, document all activities undertaken, methodologies employed, reviews and approvals obtained, quality control steps employed, problems encountered, and solutions enacted. They shall meet NCES statistical standards and reflect comments received from the COR on the draft version and submitted by due date

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date.

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

Upon request of the COR

Briefing materials shall include accurate information clearly presented to address topic of interest, incorporates comments by COR on drafts and submitted by due date

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

Within 1 month of award

The MOU should describe in detail how each contractor shall coordinate various ICT activities. The MOU should identify key personnel, roles and responsibilities and schedule of activities.

Quality assurance materials

As directed by COR

Materials are accurate, meets specified requirements and submitted by due date.

Memorandum documenting transfer of assessment materials

Within five (5) days of request or as negotiated with the COR

The memo shall detail the procedure for a secure transfer of ICT assessment materials to NCES and the next contractor and submitted by due date

Documentation of security procedures

As negotiated with the COR

The report shall describe (1) the facilities for ensuring the security of all NAEP materials including items under development, reviewer documents, copyright agreements, and any other documents that NCES specifies, and (2) the security procedure to preclude unauthorized personnel from gaining access to any online documents, including cognitive items that are not public domain and (3) submitted by due date.



Task

Deliverable

Due Date

2.3 Developing Interactive Computer Tasks  

Task profile record documenting the development history of all tasks

Upon request by the COR

2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

Report documenting the status of all copyright permissions active in NAEP Science ICTs, the associated costs, and the schedule for renewal during the upcoming year

Upon request by the COR
                                                               Attachment âF

                                  Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings

This document has been prepared in accordance with Departmental Directive OM:5-101 on
Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screening, in consultation with the Office of
Management, Security Services, Personnel and Information Security.

None of the contractor or subcontractor employee personnel will have access to U.S.
Department of Education (ED) facilities or systems.

Below are personnel positions and risk levels for the contract that is to be awarded for the
NAEP Science Interactive Computer Task Development Contract.  After award, the contractor will identify all individuals to be paid through this
contract under each personnel position, including all contractor personnel and subcontractor personnel.


|Personnel Position                      |Description of Relevant Responsibilities                                                        |Risk Level                    |
|Program Administrator                   |Task Leaders: project management, provide oversight and advisor                                 |Low                           |
|Staff Assistant/Editor                  |Provide survey information from all states on key                                               |                              |
|                                        |issues and questions identified by the NAEP-State Cooperative                                   |Low                           |
|Senior Assessment Spec./Researcher      |Organize & support travel for staff to attend meetings,                                         |                              |
|                                        |prepare meeting materials, troubleshooting logistical                                           |                              |
|                                        |arrangements, managing routine communications with                                              |                              |
|                                        |state leaders, support survey administration & follow-up for                                    |Low                           |
|                                        |state data collections                                                                          |                              |
|Junior Assessment Spec./Researcher      |Organize & support travel for staff to attend meetings,                                         |                              |
|                                        |prepare meeting materials, troubleshooting logistical                                           |                              |
|                                        |arrangements, managing routine communications with                                              |                              |
|                                        |state leaders, support survey administration & follow-up for                                    |Low                           |
|                                        |state data collections                                                                          |                              |
|Senior Programmer                       |Programming ICTs                                                                                |Low                           |








                                        Integrated Evaluation of ARRA Funding, Implementation and Outcomes

                                                       Attachment –I

      SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

Instruction To Offerors:


Offerors are required to submit small business subcontracting plan as part of your business proposal on the attached form below. Please see
section M. Small Business Involvement  for details.


Subcontracting plan that proposes to subcontract work totaling at least 23% of the cost of the Integrated Evaluation of ARRA Funding,
Implementation and Outcomes (ARRA) contract to small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, women –owned small businesses, Hub Zone and or
service-disabled Veteran owned small businesses will receive 20 points.

Subcontracting plan that proposes work with a minimum or excess of 23% of the total contract dollars subcontracted to small businesses, small
disadvantaged businesses, and women –owned small businesses, Hub Zone and or service-disabled Veteran owned small businesses will receive 20
points. These points will be added to a technical score to arrive at a total evaluated score for purposes of award decision. The contractor who
proposes less than 23% will receive ‘0’ points.


DATE:

CONTRACTOR:

ADDRESS:

SOLICITATION OR CONTRACT NUMBER:   _________________

TITLE:   ________________________

The following, together with any attachments, is hereby submitted as a Subcontracting Plan to satisfy the applicable requirements of 48 CFR
52.219-9 II.

Note -- The categories listed above imply no order of preference.

The Department values an approach where substantive work in a meaningful capacity is performed by small businesses more highly than an approach
in which only menial work or supply line work is performed by small businesses.  A meaningful capacity for substantive work includes work other
than courier services, office supplies or travel services.  Therefore, a valued approach for this task order will be one in which technical,
analytical, or significant service is performed by a small business.  See Evaluation Criteria for further information.

Offerors shall submit a small business subcontracting plan with their proposal.  Offerors shall state the type of work to be performed by a
small business and the percentage of work proposed to be performed by a small business.  The offeror shall also state the name of the small
business and type of small business concern. (Include the attached Subcontracting Plan Form in the business proposal. )

The Government will award up to 20 additional technical evaluation points based on the amount and nature of the work earmarked for small
business performance.  See “Proposal Evaluation.

1.    The total estimated dollar value of all planned subcontracting (to all types of business concerns) under this contract is $
                   .


2.    The following percentage goals (expressed in terms of a percentage of total planned subcontracted dollars) are applicable to the above-
      cited contract or to the contract to be awarded under the above-cited solicitation.

      The following total dollar amounts represent the subcontracting dollars proposed under the above-cited contract or the contract to be
      awarded under the above-cited solicitation.

        (a) Small business concerns:                     % of total planned dollars under this contract will go to subcontractors who are small
        business concerns. Total dollars: $___________.

           (i) Veteran Owned Small Business Concerns:                       % of total planned  dollars under this contract will go to
           subcontractors who are veteran owned small business concerns.  This percentage is included in the percentage shown under 2(a), above,
           as a subset. Total dollars: $___________.


           (ii) HUBZone Small Business Concerns:                       % of total planned dollars under this contract will go to subcontractors
           who are HUBZone small business concerns.  This percentage is included in the percentage shown under 2(a), above, as a subset. Total
           dollars: $___________.


           (iii) Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns:                       % of total planned  dollars under this contract will go to
           subcontractors who are small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.  This
           percentage is included in the percentage shown under 2(a), above, as a subset. Total dollars: $___________.


           (iv) Women Owned Small Business Concerns:                       % of total planned  dollars under this contract will go to
           subcontractors who are women owned small business concerns.  This percentage is included in the percentage shown under 2(a), above,
           as a subset. Total dollars: $___________.


           (v)  Service Disabled Veteran Small Business Concerns:              % of total planned dollars under this contract will go to
           subcontractors who are service disabled veteran small business concerns.  This percentage is included in the percentage shown under
           2(a), above, as a subset.  Total dollars: $              .


3.    The following principal types of supplies and services will be subcontracted, and the distribution among small, veteran-owned small,
      HUBZone small, small disadvantaged,  women-owned small, and large businesses is as follows:

4.    The following method was used to develop the subcontracting goals in section 1 of this plan:

5.    The following method was used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes (e.g., existing company source lists, the
      Procurement Marketing and Access Network (PRO-Net) of the Small Business  Administration (SBA), veterans service organizations, the
      National  Minority Purchasing Council Vendor Information Service, the Research and  Information Division of the Minority Business
      Development Agency in the  Department of Commerce, or small, HUBZone, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business trade
      associations):

6.    The subcontracting goals in section 1 of this plan were established (check one) ______ including  ______ not including indirect costs.
      The following method was used to determine the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with the five types of small business
      concerns in section 1:

7.    The following individual is employed by the offeror/contractor and will administer the offeror/contractor's subcontracting program.
      This individual's name, address, phone number, and duties are:

8.    The offeror/contractor will make the following efforts to assure that small business, veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small
      business,  small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns  have an equitable opportunity to compete for
      subcontracts:

9.    The offeror/contractor (check one) ____ will  ____  will not include the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization of Small Business
      Concerns" in all  subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and the offeror/contractor (check one) _____ will _____
      will not require all subcontractors (except small business  concerns) that receive subcontracts in excess of $500,000 ($1,000,000 for
      construction of any public facility) to adopt a subcontracting plan that complies with the requirements of this clause.


10.   The offeror/contractor (check one of each)
      _____ will  ______     will not cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required;
      _____ will  ______     will not submit periodic reports so that the Government can
            determine the extent of compliance by the offeror/contractor with the
            subcontracting plan;
      _____ will  ______     will not Submit Standard Form (SF) 294, Subcontracting Report for
            Individual Contracts, and/or SF 295, Summary Subcontract Report,
            in accordance with paragraph (j) of clause 52.219-9 II; and
      _____ will  ______     ensure that its subcontractors agree to submit SF 294 and 295.


11.   The following types of records will be maintained by the offeror/contractor concerning procedures that have been adopted to comply with
      the requirements and goals in the plan, including establishing source lists:


12.   The following is a description of the offeror/contractor's efforts to locate small business,  veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small
      business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns and award subcontracts to them:




____________________________________    _______________________________
Signed:          Date:

____________________________________
Name:

____________________________________
Title:


(PLEASE USE ATTACHMENT TO COMPLETE PLAN)

                 National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task (ICT) Development Contract


                                                    Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)

                                                                  Attachment - I


1.    Purpose

This performance-based Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) sets forth procedures and guidelines that the Department of Education (ED)
will use in evaluating the technical performance of the Contractor. A copy of this plan will be furnished to the Contractor so that the
Contractor will be aware of the methods that the Government will employ in evaluating performance on this contract and address any concerns that
the Contractor may have prior to initiating work.


2.    Scope

The QASP is intended to accomplish the following:

   1. Define the roles and responsibilities of participating Government officials
   2. Define the key deliverables that will be assessed
   3. Describe the rating elements and standards of performance against which the Contractor’s performance will be assessed for each key
      deliverable
   4. Describe the process of quality assurance assessment
   5. Provide copies of the quality assurance monitoring forms that will be used by the Government in documenting and evaluating the Contractor’s
      performance

Each of these purposes is discussed in detail below.

Roles and Responsibilities of Participating Government Officials
The following Government Officials will participate in assessing the quality of the Contractor’s performance. Their roles and responsibilities
are described as follows:

      Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR): The COR will be responsible for monitoring, assessing, recording, and reporting on the
      technical performance of the Contractor on a day-to-day basis. The COR will also be responsible for completing the Quality Assurance
      Monitoring Forms (described in greater detail below), which will be used to document the inspection and evaluation of the Contractor’s work
      performance on the key deliverables. It is extremely important for the COR to establish and maintain a team-oriented line of communication
      with the Contractor’s Project Director (PD) in order to perform monitoring functions. The COR, Contracting Officer (CO), Contract
      Specialist (CS), and PD must work together as a team to ensure that the required work is accomplished in an efficient and proper manner.
      Meetings and conference calls should be held on a regular basis in order to resolve serious problems. Less serious problems should be
      discussed and resolved on an as-needed basis.

      Contract Specialist (CS): The CS will be responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of the Contractor’s performance in the areas of contract
      compliance, contract administration, cost control and property control; reviewing the COR’s assessment of the Contractor’s performance; and
      resolving all differences between the COR’s version of events and the Contractor’s version of events. The CS may call upon the expertise of
      other Government individuals as required.


      Contracting Officer (CO): The CO ensures performance of all necessary actions for effective contracting, ensures compliance with the terms
      of the contract, and safeguards the interests of the United States in the contractual relationship. It is the CO that assures the
      Contractor receives impartial, fair, and equitable treatment under the contract. The CO is ultimately responsible for the final
      determination of the adequacy of the Contractor’s performance. The CO’s procurement authorities include the following:

            ▪ SOLE authority for any decisions which produce an increase or decrease in the scope of the contract;
            ▪ SOLE authority for any actions subject to the Changes clause;
            ▪ SOLE authority for any decision to be rendered under the Disputes clause;
            ▪ SOLE authority for negotiation and determination of indirect rates to be applied to the contract;
            ▪ SOLE authority to approve the substitution or replacement of the Project Director and other key personnel;
            ▪ SOLE authority to approve the Contractor’s invoices for payment, subject to the Limitation of Costs clause and the Limitation of
              Funds clause;
            ▪ SOLE authority to monitor and enforce Department of Labor promulgated labor requirements;
            ▪ Authority to arrange for and supervise Quality Assurance activities under this contract; and
            ▪ Signatory authority for the issuance of all modifications to the contract.

Key Deliverables to be Assessed
Even though the Government will be monitoring the Contractor’s performance on a continuing basis through its COR, the volume of tasks to be
performed by the Contractor makes technical inspections of every task impractical. Accordingly, the Department of Education will use a quality-
assurance review process to monitor the Contractor’s performance across a set of rating elements for each of the following deliverables outlined
in the Performance Work Statement (PWS):

    ▪ Final master schedule updated annually (Task 1)
    ▪ Final annual work schedule (Task 1)
    ▪ Final annual quality control plan (Task 1)
    ▪ Monthly progress and financial reports (Task 1)
    ▪ Final Science ICT contractor component of the implementation plan reflective of NCES’ comments and submitted to Alliance contractor (Task
      2)
    ▪ Final item development plan (Task 2)
    ▪ Approved tasks for grades 4, 8, 12 pilot submitted to the Web/Technology contractor (Task 2)
    ▪ Approved tasks for grades 4,8, and 12 operational assessment submitted to Web/Technology contractor (Task 2)
    ▪ Training set materials for each constructed response item with annotated scoring rubrics (Task 2)
    ▪ Science ICT Standing Committee electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES (Task 3)
    ▪ National Assessment Governing Board electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES (Task 3)
    ▪ State Item Review meeting electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES (Task 3)
    ▪ Final  OMB Clearance package submitted to COR (Task 4)
    ▪ Technical report text and tables approved by COR (Task 4)

Rating Elements and Standards of Performance
The Contractor’s performance will be evaluated by the COR in terms of a specific set of products and activities, according to five categories:
“Excellent,” “Very good,” “Good,” “Satisfactory,” and “Unsatisfactory.” The criteria for each of these performance levels are outlined below.
All products produced by or activities performed by the Contractor shall, at a minimum, meet the level of “Satisfactory.”

      • Unsatisfactory: A level of performance that the Contractor's performance does not meet the requirements in all areas.  There are areas
        for improvement that are not offset by better performance in other areas.  The need for improvement is such that Government action is
        required;
      • Satisfactory: A level of performance that the Contractor's performance, in all cases, meets the requirements.  Areas for improvement are
        offset by better performance in other areas;
      • Good: A level of performance that the Contractor's performance meets and, in some cases, exceeds the requirements.  Areas for
        improvement are offset by better performance in other areas;
      • Very good: A level of performance that the Contractor's performance exceeds the requirements in most areas.  There may be several areas
        for improvement, but these areas are offset by better performance in other areas; or
      • Excellent: A level of performance that the Contractor's performance exceeds the requirements by a substantial margin.  There may be a
        few areas for improvement, but all are minor.

In general, the work will be evaluated in terms of how well the requirements of the contract are satisfied, the extent to which the work
performed follows the approach found in the Contractor’s technical proposal, clarity of documentation, and timeliness of scheduled task
accomplishment. At the discretion of the CO/CS and COR, other government officials approved by the CO/CS may be asked to evaluate a particular
deliverable or set of deliverables.

The following specific evaluation criteria will be used when evaluating key Science ICT deliverables:

1) Comprehensiveness, clarity, and organization: Was the deliverable well organized, clear, accurate, and complete?

      • Unsatisfactory: The deliverable would include missing, unclear, inefficient approaches, unclear writing, style, poor grammar/spelling,
        disorganized document format.


      • Satisfactory: The deliverable would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling, clearly
        organized document format but require substantial revision based on ED feedback.

      • Good: The deliverable would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling, clearly
        organized document format and require some revision based on ED feedback.

      • Very good: The deliverable would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling, clearly
        organized document format and require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

      • Excellent: The deliverable would meet acceptable performance standards, AND include innovative, exceptionally skillful approaches to the
        identification and assessment of existing data. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.


      Note: In the event of an excusable delay (as defined in FAR 52.249-14, Excusable Delays and EDAR 3452.242-71, Notice to the Government of
      Delays), the Department and the Contractor shall work together to modify the contract with regard to the due dates of the deliverables. If
      such an event were to occur that would require a modification to the due dates of the deliverables, the Contractor’s performance shall be
      measured by the date agreed upon in the modification.


2) Quality of technical approach: To what degree did the deliverable meet the technical quality?

      • Unsatisfactory: The deliverable would include inadequate or incomplete information pertaining to the identification of data elements,
        their sources or the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study.


      • Satisfactory: The deliverable would include complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of data elements,
        their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require substantial revision based on ED feedback.


      • Good: The deliverable would include a complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of data elements, their
        sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require some revision based on ED feedback.


      • Very good: The deliverable would include a complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of data elements,
        their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.


      • Excellent: The deliverable would meet acceptable performance standards for this rating element, AND include innovative, exceptionally
        skillful approaches used for the identification of data elements, their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes
        of the study. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.


3) Responsiveness to Peer Review Comments/Technical Work Group/ED’s Comments and Suggestions:  Did the contractor thoughtfully consider and
acknowledge comments and suggestions from the TWG/ED throughout the drafting process?  Did the contractor accept specific direction from ED
regarding format or content, when such direction was given?

      • Unsatisfactory: The Contractor had unsubstantiated disregard for reviewers’ suggestions throughout the drafting process and refused to
        acknowledge ED’s/TWG’s edits/comments.
      • Satisfactory: The Contractor employed thoughtful consideration and acknowledgement of reviewers’ comments and suggestions for revisions
        throughout the drafting process.
      • Very good: The contractor employed an efficient method for soliciting edits and comments from the TWG and ED that resulted in the draft
        requiring few areas for considerable improvement and prepared on time.
      • Good: The contractor employed an efficient method for soliciting edits and comments from the TWG and ED that resulted in the draft
        requiring minor improvement and prepared on time.
      • Superior: The Contractor employed an efficient method for soliciting edits and comments from the TWG and ED that resulted in the draft
        being of high quality which needs no improvement and prepared on time.

4) Timeliness: To what extend were the deliverables submitted by the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables?

      • Unsatisfactory: There would be acceptable deliverables not being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables.

      • Satisfactory: There would be acceptable deliverables being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables.

      • Good: There would be acceptable deliverables being submitted 1-2 days earlier than the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables.

      • Very good: There would be acceptable deliverables being submitted 3-5 days earlier than the time specified in the Schedule of
        Deliverables.

      • Excellent: There would be acceptable deliverables being submitted at least a week before the time specified in the Schedule of
        Deliverables.


Process of Quality Assurance Assessment
The Contractor’s performance will be evaluated by the COR using the appropriate key deliverable evaluation forms (Attachment A). These forms
will serve to document and evaluate the Contractor’s performance for each of the key deliverables under this contract. Each form will be
completed by the COR, and the rating element scores will be averaged to generate the final evaluation score for that key deliverable. The form,
when completed, will document the COR’s understanding of the Contractor requirements, what was actually completed, and the impact or
consequences of what was not completed. The COR must substantiate all tasks that are judged to be indicative of “superior” or “unacceptable”
performance.

The COR will forward copies of all completed QASP monitoring forms to the CO/CS for review. The COR will then forward the monitoring forms to
the Contractor. The Contractor is required to respond in writing to any QASP monitoring form(s) indicating unacceptable performance within five
working days after receipt of the form(s).

The CO/CS will review each QASP monitoring form prepared by the COR. When appropriate, the CO/CS may investigate the event further to determine
if all the facts and circumstances surrounding the event were considered in the COR opinions outlined in the forms. The CO/CS will discuss every
event receiving a substandard rating with the Contractor to assure that corrective action is promptly initiated.

                                                                   Attachment A

                 National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task (ICT) Development Contract
                                                        Quality Assurance Monitoring Form


Deliverable:                                             Task Number:
Reviewer:                                          Date(s):
Relevant Rating Elements:                                Average Overall Rating:

1) Comprehensiveness, clarity, and organization: Was the deliverable well organized, clear, accurate, and complete?
0           1    2     3     4    5     6    7     8     9        10            or
            |                                      |     |             |  |               |
Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                       Good                 Very good    Excellent    N/A

2)  Quality of technical approach: To what degree did the deliverable meet the technical quality?

0           1    2     3     4    5     6    7     8     9        10            or
            |                                      |     |             |  |               |
Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                       Good                 Very good    Excellent    N/A


3)    Responsiveness to Peer Review Comments/Technical Working Group/ED’s Comments and Suggestions: Did the contractor thoughtfully consider and
  acknowledge comments and suggestions from the Peer Reviewers/TWG/ED throughout the drafting process?

0           1    2     3     4    5     6    7     8     9        10             or
            |                                      |     |             |  |               |
Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                       Good                 Very good    Excellent    N/A

4) Timeliness: To what extend were the deliverables submitted by the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables?
0           1    2     3     4    5     6    7     8     9        10             or
            |                                      |     |             |  |               |
Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                       Good                 Very good    Excellent    N/A


                                                                  Attachment - E


                                                           U.S. Department of Education

|                                                                                                                                                                    |
|CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE INFORMATION                                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                    |                                                                                                |
|Contractor Name and Address (Identify Division)                     |1. Contract Number:                                                                             |
|                                                                    |                                                                                                |
|                                                                    |2. Type of Contract:                                                                            |
|                                                                    |                                                                                                |
|                                                                    |3. Contract Value (Current plus any unexercised options):  $                                    |
|                                                                    |                                                                                                |
|(Please correct the above as needed.)                               |4. Period of Performance (including any option periods):                                        |
|                                                                                                                                                                    |
|5.  Description of Requirement:                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                    |
|6. Ratings.  Summarize contractor performance and circle or type in the number below that corresponds to the performance rating for each category.  Please see the  |
|attachment, which explains the rating scale.                                                                                                                        |
|Quality:              |0      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |1      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |0      |                                                                                                                                     |
|Problem Resolution:   |1      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |       |                                                                                                                                     |
|Cost Control:         |0      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |1      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |       |                                                                                                                                     |
|Timeliness:           |0      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |1      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |       |                                                                                                                                     |
|Business Relations:   |0      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |1      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |       |                                                                                                                                     |
|Customer Service:     |0      |Comments:                                                                                                                            |
|                      |1      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |2      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |3      |                                                                                                                                     |
|                      |4      |                                                                                                                                     |
|7.  Total score:                                                                                                                                                    |


      Evaluated by:

Agency/Organization    _______________________________________________________ Date  ____________

(In accordance with the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act, the following information will not be released to the contractor.)
Name and Title _________________________________________________    Telephone number  ____________

Signature  _____________________________________________      E-mail address _______________________

|                                                                                                                                            |
|Please return this form to the following address:                                                                                           |
|                                         |                                                            |                                      |
|                                         |                                                            |                                      |
|                                         |U.S. Department of Education                                |                                      |
|                                         |Contracts and Acquisitions Management                       |                                      |
|                                         |Room 7133, PCP, MS-4240                                     |                                      |
|                                         |550 12th Street SW                                          |                                      |
|                                         |Washington, DC 20202                                        |                                      |
|                                         |                                                            |                                      |
|                                         |Or e-mail to: Vidya.Vish@ed.gov                             |                                      |
|                                         |Or fax  to:  202-245-6167                                   |                                      |
|                                         |Attn:          Vidya Vish                                   |                                      |
|                                         |RFP #     ED-IES-10-R-0024                                  |                                      |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION—SEE FAR 3.104                                                                                                  |
|Information entered on this form will be used in source selection decisions and is protected under subsection 3.104  of the Federal         |
|Acquisition Regulation.  Do not disclose information entered on this form to the contractor or to any other person except as authorized by  |
|the Department of Education contracting officer.                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|Supplementary Questions                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|To assist the Department of Education contracting officer, we would greatly appreciate your taking the time to answer the following         |
|questions, if any, related to the contractor’s past performance:                                                                            |



      Contractor Performance Evaluation
      Instructions for Completing Contractor Performance Information Form

Based on the rating area elements presented below and the rating guidelines on the back of this sheet, please evaluate contractor performance  in
each of the rating areas.  On the “Contractor Performance Information” form, circle (or type in the “Comments:” area) the  rating  from  0  to  4
that most closely matches your evaluation of the contractor’s performance.  Please add written comments for each rating.  If you  wish,  you  may
attach additional comments or information.  We would also appreciate your answers to the specific questions, if any, on the  back  of  the  form.
Please return the form to the address indicated on the back of the form.  Thank you for your time and your cooperation.

The Department of Education will use the information from this form to evaluate offerors competing for  contract  awards.   We  may  release  the
information from this form to the contractor during negotiations or debriefings.  If we release information from this form, we will  not  release
your name to the contractor.

      Elements within Each Rating Area

Quality of Product or Service
-     Compliance with contract requirements
-     Accuracy of reports
-     Appropriateness of personnel
-     Technical excellence

Problem Resolution
-     Anticipates and avoids or mitigates problems
-     Satisfactorily overcomes or resolves problems
-     Prompt notification of problems
-     Pro-active
-     Effective contractor-recommended solutions

Cost Control
-     Within budget
-     Current, accurate and complete billings
-     Costs properly allocated
-     Unallowable costs not billed
-     Relationship of negotiated costs to actual
-     Cost efficiencies

Timeliness of Performance
-     Meets interim milestones
-     Reliable
-     Stays on schedule despite problems
-     Responsive to technical direction
-     Completes work on time, including wrap-up and contract administration
-     No liquidated damages assessed


Business Relations
-     Effective management
-     Use of performance-based management techniques
-     Business-like concern for the customer's interests
-     Effective management and selection of subcontractors
-     Effective small/small disadvantaged business subcontracting program
-     Reasonable/cooperative behavior
-     Effective use of technology in management and communication
-     Flexible
-     Minimal staff turnover
-     Maintains high employee morale
-     Resolves disagreements without being unnecessarily litigious.

Customer Service
-     Understands and embraces service and program goals
-     Team approach with the customer
-     Satisfaction of end users with the contractor’s service
-     Positive customer feedback
-     Prompt responses
-     Courteous interactions
-     Effective escalations and referrals
-     Initiative and proactive improvements
-     Creative service strategies

      Rating Guidelines

Quality of Product or Service
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Nonconformance jeopardizes the achievement of contract goals; default.                                           |
|1 - Poor                                        |Nonconformance requires major agency intervention to ensure achievement of contract goals; show cause or cure    |
|                                                |notices.                                                                                                         |
|2 - Fair                                        |Quality meets specifications in most cases, however, some agency intervention required to ensure achievement of  |
|                                                |contract requirements.                                                                                           |
|3 - Good                                        |Quality meets specifications in all cases.                                                                       |
|4 - Excellent                                   |Quality exceeds specifications in some cases.                                                                    |
|Problem Resolution                              |                                                                                                                 |
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Inadequately resolved problems jeopardize contract goals.                                                        |
|1 - Poor                                        |Significant agency intervention required to resolve problems jeopardizing contract goals.                        |
|2 - Fair                                        |Some agency intervention required to resolve problems jeopardizing contract goals.                               |
|3 - Good                                        |Successfully overcomes or resolves all problems and achieves contract goals with minimal agency intervention.    |
|4 - Excellent                                   |Anticipates and avoids most problems and successfully overcomes all unforeseen problems.                         |
|                                                |                                                                                                                 |
|Cost Control                                    |                                                                                                                 |
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Cost increases jeopardize achievement of contract goals; or billings routinely include unallowable costs.        |
|1 - Poor                                        |Significant cost increases; or some inaccurate billings including some with unallowable costs.                   |
|2 - Fair                                        |Minor cost increases; or some inaccurate billings, but a minimal (1-2) number with unallowable costs.            |
|3 - Good                                        |Contractor performed within costs; but some late billings, none with unallowable costs.                          |
|4 - Excellent                                   |Costs were less than the amount cited in the contract; and billings accurate and timely.                         |
|Timeliness of Performance                       |                                                                                                                 |
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Delays jeopardize the achievement of contract goals.                                                             |
|1 - Poor                                        |Other significant delays.                                                                                        |
|2 - Fair                                        |Minor delays.                                                                                                    |
|3 - Good                                        |All deliverables on time.                                                                                        |
|4 - Excellent                                   |All deliverables on time with some ahead of schedule; or stays on schedule despite unforeseen circumstances.     |
|                                                |                                                                                                                 |
|Business Relations                              |                                                                                                                 |
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Unethical or illegal business practices.                                                                         |
|1 - Poor                                        |Business practices are not attuned to customer support.                                                          |
|2 - Fair                                        |Business practices are somewhat attuned to customer support.                                                     |
|3 - Good                                        |Business practices focus on customer support.                                                                    |
|4 - Excellent                                   |Highly effective, proactive business practices focused on customer support.                                      |
|                                                |                                                                                                                 |
|Customer Service                                |                                                                                                                 |
|0 - Unsatisfactory                              |Response to service requests is routinely late, ineffective, or rude; customers express frustration or anger     |
|                                                |about many interactions; complaints are unresolved; contractor seems unaware of service issues.                  |
|1 - Poor                                        |Response to service requests is often late, ineffective or rude; some complaints are resolved.                   |
|2 -Fair                                         |Response to service requests is uneven in timing or effectiveness; customer interactions are tenuous; contractor |
|                                                |is trying hard and understands service issues.                                                                   |
|3 - Good                                        |Response to service requests is timely, effective and courteous; customers express positive feedback; delivery of|
|                                                |service is smooth and organized; collects customer feedback; customer problems are resolved well.                |
|4 - Excellent                                   |Response to service requests is timely, effective and courteous; the contractor is proactive in building good    |
|                                                |relations with customers, proposing new service strategies, analyzing and reporting on service loads and         |
|                                                |collecting and using customer feedback.                                                                          |





United States Department of Education


National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task Development

                                                                  Attachment - B

                                                         AWARD FEE EVALUATION PLAN (AFEP)


              1. IDENTIFICATION:

      • Title of the Requirement:
        National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task Development


      • Agency:
        U. S. Department of Education


      • Contracting Activity:
        Contracts and Acquisitions Management


      • Fee Determining Official (FDO):
        Vidya Vish


   2.   INTRODUCTION:

      This performance-based Award Fee Evaluation Plan (AFEP) sets forth procedures and guidelines that the Department of Education will use in
      evaluating the technical performance of the contractor on cost reimbursement tasks identified in this contract.  The purpose of this award
      fee system is to incentivize the contractor to complete key work deliverable under cost reimbursement tasks in a timely and high quality
      way. A copy of this plan will be furnished to the contractor so that the contractor will be aware of the methods that the Government will
      employ in evaluating performance on this contract and address any concerns that the contractor may have prior to initiating work.

   3.  PURPOSE OF THE AFEP:

      The AFEP is intended to accomplish the following:

      ▪ Define the roles and responsibilities of participating Government officials and outside experts;


      ▪ Define the key deliverables which will be assessed;


      ▪ Describe the rating elements and standards of performance against which the contractor’s performance will be assessed for each key
        deliverable;


      ▪ Describe the process of quality assurance assessment; and


      ▪ Provide copies of the quality assurance monitoring forms that will be used by the Government in documenting and evaluating the
        contractor’s performance.

   4. AWARD  FEE BOARD MEMBER (FAR PART 16.001):


      1) Elvira Hausken

   5. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTICIPATING GOVERNMENT
         OFFICIALS:


      The Contracting Officer Representative (COR) will be responsible for monitoring, assessing, recording, and reporting on the technical
      performance of the contractor on a day-to-day basis.  The COR will also be responsible for completing the Award Fee Evaluation Forms which
      will be used to document the inspection and evaluation of the contractor’s work performance on three deliverables associated with cost
      reimbursement tasks (see the Award Fee Plan table for the specific deliverables to be evaluated).

      It is extremely important for the COR to establish and maintain a team-oriented line of communication with the contractor’s Project
      Director (PD) in order to perform monitoring functions.  The COR, Contracting Officer (CO), and PD must work together as a team to ensure
      that the required work is accomplished in an efficient and proper manner.  Meetings should be held on a regular basis in order to resolve
      serious problems.  Less serious problems should be discussed and resolved on an impromptu basis.


      The Contract Specialist (CS) will be responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of the contractor’s performance in the areas of contract
      compliance, contract administration, cost control and property control; reviewing the COR’s assessment of the contractor’s performance; and
      resolving all differences between the COR’s version and the contractor’s version.


      The Contracting Officer (CO) will have overall responsibility for overseeing the contractor’s performance.  The Contract Specialist will be
      responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of the contractor’s performance in the areas of contract compliance, contract administration,
      cost control and property control; reviewing the COR’s assessment of the contractor’s performance; and resolving all differences between
      the COR’s version and the contractor’s version.  The CO may call upon the expertise of other Government individuals as required.


      The CO’s procurement authorities include the following:


      ▪ SOLE authority for any decisions which produce an increase or decrease in the scope of the contract;
      ▪ SOLE authority for any actions subject to the Changes clause;
      ▪ SOLE authority for any decision to be rendered under the Disputes clause;
      ▪ SOLE authority for negotiation and determination of indirect rates to be applied to the contract;
      ▪ SOLE authority to approve the substitution or replacement of the Project Director and other key personnel;
      ▪ SOLE authority to approve the contractor’s invoices for payment, subject to the Limitation of Costs clause and the Limitation of Funds
        clause;
      ▪ SOLE authority to monitor and enforce Department of Labor promulgated labor requirements;
      ▪ Authority to arrange for and supervise Quality Assurance activities under this contract;
      ▪ SOLE authority to approve the contractor’s Quality Control Program;
      ▪ To approve all contractor purchases of equipment, supplies, and materials exceeding $2,500 are encouraged even though not required by
        FAR 13.106; and
      ▪ Signatory authority for the issuance of all modifications to the contract.


                       6.   AWARD FEE PLAN (FAR Part 16.401 (e) (3):


        (i) FDO approval:

Award fee plans shall be approved by the FDO unless otherwise authorized by the agency procedures.

       (ii) (a) Key Deliverables to Be Assessed:

Even though the Government, through its COR, will be monitoring the contractor’s performance on a continuing basis, the volume of tasks
performed by the contractor makes technical inspections of every task and step impractical.  Accordingly, the Department of Education will use a
quality-assurance review process to monitor the contractor’s performance on cost reimbursement tasks under this contract.  Specifically, the COR
will assess the contractor’s performance across a set of tailored rating elements for each of three deliverables:

    ▪ Implementation Plan (outlined in Task 2.1 of the performance-based work statement);

    ▪ Developing Interactive Computer Tasks (outlined in Task 2.3 of the performance-based work statement);

    ▪ Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development (outlined in Task 2.6 of the performance-based work statement).

       (iii) Rating Procedure:

The contractor’s performance shall be evaluated by assessing the key deliverables described above.  Tailored rating elements for each key
deliverable have been developed and incorporated into the Award Fee Evaluation Forms.  The rating elements and acceptable standards of
performance for each key deliverable are described below:

      Comprehensiveness, clarity, and organization.
      where acceptable performance would include a deliverable that is complete, accurate, well-organized, clearly written, and presented with
      proper grammar/spelling.

      Quality of technical approach.
      where acceptable performance would meet performance standards and need minimum revision based on ED review.

      Timeliness of deliverables.
      where acceptable performance would include acceptable deliverables being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule of Deliverables.


       (iv) Rating Elements and Standards of Performance for Key Deliverables

The COR will evaluate each rating element for each key deliverable in accordance with the following definitions of contractor performance:

Rating Elements and Standards of Performance for Key Deliverables
|Award Fee Adjectival Ratings      |Award Fee Pool Available to be   |Description                                                   |
|                                  |Earned for Deliverable           |                                                              |
|Excellent                         |91% - 100%                       |Contractor has exceeded almost all of the significant         |
|                                  |                                 |award-fee criteria and has met overall cost, schedule, and    |
|                                  |                                 |technical performance requirements of the contract in the     |
|                                  |                                 |aggregate as defined and measured against the criteria in the |
|                                  |                                 |award-fee plan for the award-fee evaluation period.           |
|Very Good                         |76% - 90%                        |Contractor has exceeded many of the significant award-fee     |
|                                  |                                 |criteria and has met overall cost, schedule, and technical    |
|                                  |                                 |performance requirements of the contract in the aggregate as  |
|                                  |                                 |defined and measured against the criteria in the award-fee    |
|                                  |                                 |plan for the award-fee evaluation period.                     |
|Good                              |51% - 75%                        |Contractor has exceeded some of the significant award-fee     |
|                                  |                                 |criteria and has met overall cost, schedule, and technical    |
|                                  |                                 |performance requirements of the contract in the aggregate as  |
|                                  |                                 |defined and measured against the criteria in the award-fee    |
|                                  |                                 |plan for the award-fee evaluation period.                     |
|Satisfactory                      |No Greater than 50%              |Contractor has met overall cost, schedule, and technical      |
|                                  |                                 |performance requirements of the contract in the aggregate as  |
|                                  |                                 |defined and measured against the criteria in the award-fee    |
|                                  |                                 |plan for the award-fee evaluation period.                     |
|Unsatisfactory                    |0%                               |Contractor has failed to meet overall cost, schedule, and     |
|                                  |                                 |technical performance requirements of the contract in the     |
|                                  |                                 |aggregate as defined and measured against the criteria in the |
|                                  |                                 |award-fee plan for the award-fee evaluation period.           |

       (v) Award Fee Evaluation Process:

Performance incentive bonuses will be awarded for those key deliverables that are judged by the COR to be satisfactory and above.  If the
deliverables are determined to be unsatisfactory (i.e., grade from) there will be no award fee awarded for the deliverable.

While quality assurance is closely tied to these performance standards for deliverable content, timeliness and cost are also important
considerations in the assessment of contractor performance. The contractor’s cost performance will be evaluated by the Department at the end of
the contract.  See Section B.2 of the contract for further information.  The government will evaluate Target Cost and Target Fee according to
contract clause B.2 216-70 AWARD FEE (APR 1984).

In the event of an excusable delay (as defined in FAR 52.249-14, Excusable Delays and EDAR 3452.242-71, Notice to the Government of Delays), the
Department and the contractor shall work together to modify the contract with regard to the due dates of the deliverables.  If such an event
were to occur that would require a modification to the due dates of the deliverables, the contractor’s performance shall be measured by the date
agreed upon in the modification.

The contractor’s performance will be evaluated by the COR using the appropriate key deliverable evaluation forms (Exhibits A through C).  These
forms will serve to document and evaluate the contractor’s performance for each of the key deliverables under this contract.  Each form will be
completed by the COR and the rating element scores will be averaged to generate the final evaluation score for that key deliverable.  This final
evaluation score will document the COR’s understanding of contractor performance for that key deliverable.

     (vi) Award Fee Evaluation Period:

Evaluation of key deliverables will be conducted on an annual basis, with the first evaluation to occur 12 months after the contract is awarded.

    (vii) Total Award Fee pool amount:

Performance award fees will be awarded for those key deliverables that are judged by the COR to be superior.

The deliverables/activities that will be used to evaluate contractor performance and the awards tied to each are listed below.  In order to be
considered for an award fee, the product must be delivered no later than the date specified in the contractor’s technical proposal or in the
schedule of deliverables in the statement of work.  (See FAR 52.249-14, Excusable Delays and EDAR 3452.242-71, Notice to the Government of
Delays.)




Total Award Fee for the Base Contract - $182,415

|Task/Deliverable             |Name                                 |Performance Award Potential                                            |
|                             |                                     |Excellent: 91%–100%= $41,499.41- $45,603.75                            |
|Task 2.1                     |Implementation Plan                  |Very Good:76%-90%= $34,658.85 - $41,043.37                             |
|                             |                                     |Good: 51% - 75% = $23,257.91- $34,202.81                               |
|                             |                                     |Satisfactory: < 50% = < $22,801.87                                     |
|                             |                                     |Unsatisfactory:  0% = $0.00                                            |
|                             |                                     |Excellent: 91%–100%= $82,988.82 - $91,207.5                            |
|Task 2.3                     |Developing Interactive Computer Tasks|Very Good:76%-90%= $69,317.7 - $82,086.75                              |
|                             |                                     |Good: 51% - 75% = $46,515.82 - $68,405.62                              |
|                             |                                     |Satisfactory: < 50% = < $45,603.75                                     |
|                             |                                     |Unsatisfactory:  0% = $0.00                                            |
|                             |                                     |Excellent: 91%–100%= $41,499.41- $45,603.75                            |
|Task 2.6                     |Scoring Rubric and Training Set      |Very Good:76%-90%= $34,658.85 - $41,043.37                             |
|                             |Development                          |Good: 51% - 75% = $23,257.91- $34,202.81                               |
|                             |                                     |Satisfactory: < 50% = < $22,801.87                                     |
|                             |                                     |Unsatisfactory:  0% = $0.00                                            |


                                                            AWARD FEE EVALUATION FORM
                                                          EXHIBIT A: Implementation Plan



      |Award Fee Board Member:                                                    |
|Date                                                                       |


Rating Element 1: Comprehensiveness, clarity, and organization

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0   1 2     3    4     5     6    7     8    9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include missing, unclear, inefficient approaches, unclear writing, style, poor
           grammar/spelling, disorganized document format.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper
           grammar/spelling, clearly organized document format but require substantial revision based on ED feedback.

           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling, clearly
           organized document format and require some revision based on ED feedback.


           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling,
           clearly organized document format and require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would meet acceptable performance standards for this rating element, AND include innovative,
           exceptionally skillful approaches to the identification and assessment of existing data. Require only minimal revision based on ED
           feedback.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):










Rating Element 2: Quality of technical approach.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include inadequate or incomplete information pertaining to the identification of data
           elements, their sources or the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of
           data elements, their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require substantial revision
           based on ED feedback.


           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include a complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of data elements,
           their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require some revision based on ED feedback.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include a complete, sound, credible, comprehensive approach to the identification of data
           elements, their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness for the purposes of the study. Require only minimal revision based on
           ED feedback.


           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would meet acceptable performance standards for this rating element, AND include innovative,
           exceptionally skillful approaches used for the identification of data elements, their sources, and the assessment of their usefulness
           for the purposes of the study. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):










Rating Element 3: Timeliness.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include acceptable deliverables not being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule
           of Deliverables.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted by the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted 1-2 days earlier than the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted 3-5 days earlier than the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted at least a week before the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):









                                                            AWARD FEE EVALUATION FORM
                                                 EXHIBIT B: DEVELOPING INTERACTIVE COMPUTER TASKS


      |Award Fee Board Member:                                                    |
|Date                                                                       |

Rating Element 1: Comprehensiveness, clarity, and organization

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0   1 2     3    4     5     6    7     8    9     10


where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include missing, unclear, inefficient survey items, unclear writing, style, poor
           grammar/spelling, disorganized document format.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper
           grammar/spelling, clearly organized survey instruments and require substantial revision based on ED feedback.


           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling, clearly
           organized survey instruments and require some revision based ED feedback.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include complete, clear, efficient approaches, clear writing style, proper grammar/spelling,
           clearly organized document format and require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would meet acceptable performance standards for this rating element, AND include innovative,
           exceptionally skillful approaches used in developing the survey instruments. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):









Rating Element 2: Quality of technical approach.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include missing, unclear, confusing data collection instruments, insufficient
           instrumentation to support data collection and analysis plans.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include complete, clear, efficient, and user-friendly data collection instruments,
           sufficient instrumentation to support data collection and analysis plans without being unnecessarily burdensome to respondents.
           Require substantial revision based on ED feedback.


           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include complete, clear, efficient, and user-friendly data collection instruments, sufficient
           instrumentation to support data collection and analysis plans without being unnecessarily burdensome to respondents. Require some
           revision based on ED feedback.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include complete, clear, efficient, and user-friendly data collection instruments, sufficient
           instrumentation to support data collection and analysis plans without being unnecessarily burdensome to respondents. Require only
           minimal revision based on ED feedback.


           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would meet acceptable performance standards for this rating element, AND include need for minimum
           revision based upon ED review. Require only minimal revision based on ED feedback.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):









Rating Element 3: Timeliness.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include acceptable deliverables not being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule
           of Deliverables.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted by the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted 1-2 days earlier than the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted 3-5 days earlier than the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted at least a week before the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):








                                                            AWARD FEE EVALUATION FORM
                                              EXHIBIT C: SCORING RUBRIC AND TRAINING SET DEVELOPMENT


      |Award Fee Board Member:                                                    |
|Date                                                                       |

Rating Element 1: Quality of technical approach.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include response rates of less than 80 percent to the surveys scheduled to be administered
           in a given year.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include response rates of at least 80 percent to the surveys scheduled to be
           administered in a given year.


           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include response rates of greater than 82 percent to the surveys scheduled to be administered in a
           given year.

           Very good performance (7.6-9) would include response rates of greater than 84 percent to the surveys scheduled to be administered in
           a given year.

           Excellent performance (9.1-10) would include response rates of greater than 86 percent to the surveys scheduled to be administered in
           a given year.

Supporting comments (required for anything other than satisfactory performance ratings):










Rating Element 2: Timeliness.

Circle the appropriate number for your rating:

           0    1      2    3     4     5    6     7    8     9     10

where:           Unsatisfactory performance (0) would include acceptable deliverables not being submitted by the time specified in the Schedule
           of Deliverables.

           Satisfactory performance (no greater than 5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted by the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

           Good performance (5.1-7.5) would include acceptable deliverables being submitted 1-2 days earlier than the time specified in the
           Schedule of Deliverables.

Attachment C - Pricing Schedule for Fixed Price Deliverables



The contractor shall submit one copy of the final deliverable to the CO; all other deliverables are submitted to the COR.  The contractor shall submit an electronic copy of all deliverables to the COR unless otherwise specified.









Deliverable

Price

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1:  Project Planning and Management

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meeting with NCES

Task 1.1 Project Initiation Meeting with NCES

Final agendas for the two project initiation meetings

$                       each

Memorandums of key decisions and actions

$                       each

Convening two initiation meetings

$                       each

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Task 1.2 Project Management Meetings

Monthly Steering Committee meeting agendas

$                       each

Monthly Steering Committee meeting memorandums

$                       each

Weekly management meetings

$                       each

ICT working group meetings

$                       each

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Task 1.3 Master Schedule

Draft master schedule

$

Final master schedule 

$

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Task 1.4 Annual Work Schedule

Draft annual work schedule with actual dates of all activities

$                       each

Final annual work schedule

$                       each

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Task 1.5 Annual Quality Control Plan

Draft annual quality control plan 

$                       each

Final annual quality control plan 

$                       each

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Task 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports

Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 

$                       each

Task 1.7 Staffing Plan

Task 1.7 Staffing Plan

Staffing plan 

$

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

Task 3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

List of proposed members including information related to affiliation, location, and area of expertise

$

Agenda for each meeting

$                       each

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

$                       each

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

$                       each

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

$                       each

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

$                       each

Minutes of each meeting that includes an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

$                       each

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Task 3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

$                       each

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

$                       each

Briefing document

$                       each

Draft electronic and/or paper review packages

$                       each

Final electronic and/or paper review packages submitted to NCES

$                       each

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Task 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Agenda for each meeting

$                       each

List of facilitators to NCES

$                       

Power Point presentation to the group if applicable

$                       each

Mock-up of each review package type (i.e., electronic and/or paper) if needed

$                       each

Draft electronic and/or paper review package

$                       each

Final electronic and/or paper review package

$                       each

Minutes of the meeting that include an annotated list of all recommendations made during the meeting and a discussion of what action shall be taken

$                       each

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4: General Activities

Task 4.1 Requirements for Data Collection and Processing

Task 4.1 Requirements for Data Collection and Processing

Security and Confidentiality Plan approved by COR 

$

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Task 4.2 Coordination with other NAEP Contractors and Grantees

Statement of pertinent, relevant issues 

$                       each

Meeting summary 

$                       each

Summary memorandum 

$                       each

Draft clearance package submitted to COR

$                       each

Final clearance package submitted to the COR 

$                       each

Approved clearance package submitted to the Alliance contractor 

$                       each

Text & tables approved by the COR 

$

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Task 4.3 Provide Support

Background/briefing material as directed by COR

$                       each

Briefing materials (task 4.3.2)

$                       each

Briefing materials (task 4.3.3)

$                       each

Memorandum of understanding with other ED contractors identified by NCES

$

Quality assurance materials

$                       each

Memorandum documenting transfer of assessment materials

$

Documentation of security procedures

$


                                                                   UNITED           STATES           DEPARTMENT           OF            EDUCATION
                                     Office of the Chief Financial Officer
                                               Contracts and Acquisitions Management



                                                        GUIDELINES FOR PREPARING VOUCHERS

                                                                   Attachment D

Here are some guidelines for preparing vouchers for reimbursement under cost reimbursement (CR) contracts:

   1. Be familiar with the “PAYMENTS” clause of your contract.  As indicated therein, all vouchers must be sent directly to the person indicated
      in Section G, clause 306-1a “Invoice and Contract Financing Requests Submission,” of the contract.
   2. Use standard form SF-1034, “PUBLIC VOUCHER,” and “ATTACHMENT TO SF-1034.”  These may be reproduced.  Copies are available from the contract
      specialist (CS).
     3.    Submit an original copy of the invoice via email to OCFOCAMINVOICING@ED.GOV
     4.     Be sure to include the following information on your SF-1034 and attachment to facilitate payment (see
             attached sample):


     a. Name and address of person in (1) above;
     b. Date voucher prepared;
     c. Contract number and date of award;
     d. Number your vouchers (upper right hand corner) consecutively.  Begin with the number “0001” for the first voucher submitted under your
        contract, and continue through the final voucher;
     e. Identify each voucher as either “COST REIMBURSEMENT – PROVISIONAL PAYMENT,” or “COST REIMBURSEMENT – FINAL VOUCHER” as applicable;
     f. Type the following certification, signed by an authorized official of your organization on the SF-1034 and on the attachment:

        “I certify that all payments requested are for appropriate purposes and in accordance with the agreements set forth in the contract.”


        ________________________________           _____________________________
        Name                                 Title


   3. If you are paid by Letter of Credit (LOC), you should submit monthly vouchers prepared as above, except the following clause must be placed
      on the voucher:
      “NO CHECK TO BE ISSUED.  PAYMENT MADE UNDER LETTER OF CREDIT No. __
   4. Costs claimed may be rounded off to the nearest whole dollar amount at the option of the contractor;
   5. Allow at least thirty (30) days for processing and electronic payment of the vouchers.
   6. Any voucher not submitted in the proper format will be returned to the contractor.

Attachment(s)

|Standard From 1034          |PUBLIC VOUCHER FOR PURCHASES AND                                                                   |VOUCHER No.                        |
|September 1971              |SERVICES OTHER THAN PERSONAL                                                                       |                                   |
|4 Treasury FRM 2000         |                                                                                                   |                                   |
|1034-115                    |                                                                                                   |                                   |
|U. S. DEPARTMENT, BUREAU OR ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION:                           |DATE VOUCHER PREPARED:                          |SCHEDULE No.                       |
|                                                                              |                                                |                                   |
|U. S. Department of Education                                                 |                                                |                                   |
|Attn.:                                                                        |                                                |                                   |
|Contracts and Purchasing operations                                           |                                                |                                   |
|7th and D Streets, SW                                                         |                                                |                                   |
|ROB-3 Room 3069                                                               |                                                |                                   |
|Washington, DC  20202-4444                                                    |                                                |                                   |
|                                                                              |CONTRACT NUMBER AND DATE                        |PAID BY:                           |
|                                                                              |REQUISITION NUMBER AND DATE                     |                                   |
|PAYEE’S NAME AND ADDRESS                                                                         REMIT TO:                      |                                   |
|                                                                                                                                |DATE INVOICE RECEIVED              |
|                                                                                                                                |DISCOUNT TERMS                     |
|                                                                                                                                |PAYEE’S ACCOUNT NUMBER             |
|SHIPPED FROM                                                                          TO                                        |GOVERNMENT B/L NUMBER              |
|WEIGHT                                                                                                                          |                                   |
|NUMBER AND DATE OF   |DATE OF DELIVERY OR   |ARTICLES OR SERVICES                         |QUANTITY       |UNIT PRICE          |AMOUNT                             |
|ORDER                |SERVICE               |(Enter description, item number of contract  |               |                    |                                   |
|                     |                      |or Federal supply schedule, and other        |               |                    |                                   |
|                     |                      |information deemed necessary)                |               |                    |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |COST      |PER       |(1)                                |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|                     |                      |                                             |               |          |          |                                   |
|(Use continuation sheet(s) if necessary)                  (Payee must NOT use the space below)                                  |                                   |
|TOTAL                                                                                                                           |                                   |
|PAYMENT:                   |APPROVED FOR                     |EXCHANGE RATE               |DIFFERENCES                         |                                   |
|COMPLETE                   |= $                              |=$1.00                      |                                    |                                   |
|PARTIAL                    |                                 |                            |                                    |                                   |
|FINAL                      |                                 |                            |                                    |                                   |
|PROGRESS                   |                                 |                            |                                    |                                   |
|ADVANCE                    |                                 |                            |                                    |                                   |
|                           |BY (2)                                                        |                                    |                                   |
|                           |                                                              |                                    |                                   |
|                           |TITLE                                                         |Amount verified correct for         |                                   |
|                           |                                                              |(Signature or initials)             |                                   |
|Pursuant to authority vested in me, I certify that this voucher is correct and proper for payment:                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                                   |
|____________________                             _____________________________________________________            ___________________________________              |
|(Date)                                                          (Authorized Certifying Officer)                                                                    |
|(Title)                                                                                                                                                            |
|ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATION                                                                                                                                          |
|PAID BY |CHECK NUMBER              ON TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES                   |CHECK NUMBER                    ON             (Name of bank)               |
|        |CASH                                     DATE                                 |PAYEE (3)                                                                   |
|        |$                                                                             |                                                                            |
|When stated in foreign currency, insert name of currency                                                                     |PER                                  |
|If the ability to certify and authority to approve are combined in one person, one signature only is necessary; otherwise the|                                     |
|approving officer will sign in the space provided, over his official title                                                   |                                     |
|When a voucher is receipted in the name of the company or corporation, the name of the person writing the company or the     |                                     |
|corporate name, as well as the capacity in which he signs, must appear.  For example, “John Doe Company, per John Smith,     |                                     |
|Secretary,” or “Treasurer,” as the case may be.                                                                              |                                     |
|                                                                                                                             |TITLE                                |


                                                                                                 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1974 O-536-498

SAMPLE SF-1034 CONTINUATION SHEET

                                                                                                                       VOUCHER No.: _____________

                                                                                                                       SHEET No._________________

Contractor’s Name: ________________________________________

Contract Number: _________________________________________

Period of Performance: _____________________________________

Total Funds Awarded to Date: $______________________________

|DESCRIPTION                           |RATE      |ESTIMATED TOTAL COST|EXPENDITURES THIS PERIOD |CUMULATIVE EXPENDITURES  |BALANCE AVAILABLE  |
|DIRECT LABOR:                         |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Salaries                              |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Fringe Benefits                       |0.00%     |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|Subtotal:                             |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Labor Overhead (if any)               |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Total Direct Labor:                   |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|OTHER DIRECT COSTS[1]:                |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Travel                                |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Printing                              |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Postage                               |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Duplicating                           |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Data Entry                            |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Telephone                             |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Total Other Direct Costs:             |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|G & A (if any)                        |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Overhead (if any)                     |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|Fee (if any)                          |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|TOTAL COSTS:                          |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |0.00%     |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |                    |                         |                         |                   |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |
|                                      |          |$0.00               |$0.00                    |$0.00                    |$0.00              |

I hereby certify that all payments requested are for appropriate purposes and in accordance with the agreements set forth in the contract.

Signature and Title of Official: _______________________________________________

Date: ____________________________

-----------------------
[1] Change description of line items as appropriate.

SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. CONTRACT NUMBER

1. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700)
4. TYPE OF SOLICITATION SEALED BID (IFB) NEGOTIATED (RFP) 5. DATE ISSUED

RATING

PAGE

OF

PAGES

1
6. REQUISITION/PURCHASE NUMBER

64

3. SOLICITATION NUMBER

ED-IES-11-R-0037

EDOIES-11-000130 EDOIES-11-000130

7. ISSUED BY

CODE

CPOD

8. ADDRESS OFFER TO (If other than Item 7)

Contracts & Acquisitions Mgt., Group D US Dept of Education, 550 12th St SW - 7th Floor Washington DC 20202-4230
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

SOLICITATION
9. Sealed offers in original and handcarried, in the depository located in copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place specified in Item 8, or if
until (Hour)

local time
(Date)

CAUTION - LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawls: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation. 10. FOR INFORMATION CALL
A. NAME B. TELEPHONE (NO COLLECT CALLS) C. E-MAIL ADDRESS

Abdulaziz Yousuf
DESCRIPTION PART 1 - THE SCHEDULE PAGES(S)

202-245-6193
11. TABLE OF CONTENTS
(X) SEC.

Abdulaziz.Yousuf@ed.gov
DESCRIPTION PART II - CONTRACT CLAUSES PAGE(S)

(X)

SEC.

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

SOLICITATION/CONTRACT FORM SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS DESCRIPTION/SPECS./WORK STATEMENT PACKAGING AND MARKING INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

1-1 2 -9 10 - 10 11 - 11 12 - 12 13 - 13 14 - 15 16 - 20

X

I

CONTRACT CLAUSES PART III - LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACH.

21 - 28

X

J

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS PART IV - PRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS

29 - 29

X

K

REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

30 - 44

X X

L M

INSTRS., CONDS., AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

45 - 60 61 - 64

OFFER
NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. 12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different

period is inserted by the offeror) from the date for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all itmes upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 13. DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT
(See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8) 10 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 20 CALENDAR DAYS (%) 30 CALENDAR DAYS (%) CALENDAR DAYS (%)

14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS
(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated): CODE 15A. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR 15B. TELEPHONE NUMBER FACILITY

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

AMENDMENT NO.

DATE

16. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER

DUNS:

(Type or print)

15C. CHECK IF REMITTANCE ADDRESS IS DIFFERENT FROM 17. SIGNATURE ABOVE - ENTER SUCH ADDRESS IN SCHEDULE.

18. OFFER DATE

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
19. ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS NUMBERED 20. AMOUNT 21. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION

See Schedule
22. AUTHORITY FOR USING OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION: 10 U.S.C 23004(c) ( 24. ADMINISTERED BY ) 41 U.S.C 253(c) ( CODE ) 23. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN (4 copies unless otherwise specified) 25. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE ITEM

26. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER(Type or print)

27. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

28. AWARD DATE

(Signature of Contracting Officer) IMPORTANT - Award will be made on this Form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official writen notice. (Must be fully completed by offeror) AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION Previous edition is unusable

STANDARD FORM 33 (REV. 9-97) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.214(c)

SCHEDULE Continued
ITEM NO. SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT

NAEP 2015 Science Assessment 0001 New award for the development of the operational 2015 NAEP Science Assessment. PR NUMBER: EDOIES-11-000130 1.00 SE

PAGE 2 OF 64

Table of Contents
SECTION B B. 1 B. 2 B. 3 B. 4 B. 5 B. 6 SECTION C C. 1 SECTION D D. 1 SECTION E E. 1 E. 2 E. 3 SECTION F F. 1 F. 2 F. 3 SECTION G G. 1 G. 2 G. 3 G. 4 G. 5 G. 6 G. 7 SECTION H H. 1 H. 2 H. 3 H. 4 H. 5 H. 6 H. 7 H. 8 H. 9 H. 10 H. 11 H. 12 H. 13 SECTION I SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS.................................................... 7 216-70 AWARD FEE (APR 1984)............................................................... 7 301-8 ESTIMATED COST, BASE FEE AND AWARD FEE (APRIL 1984)................................. 7 301-10 PROVISION FOR PRICING AND PAYMENT (ALTERNATE I) (AUGUST 1985)....................... 7 301-21 CONTRACT AMOUNT INCREASE/DECREASE (APRIL 1997)...................................... 7 Total Contract Value.......................................................................7 Type of Contract.......................................................................... 8 DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT................................................ 10 302-2 SCOPE OF WORK (FEBRUARY 1985)...................................................... 10 PACKAGING AND MARKING....................................................................11 303-1 SHIPMENT AND MARKING (MARCH 1986)...................................................11 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE................................................................12 52.246-5 52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--COST-REIMBURSEMENT (APR 1984)........................... 12 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996).................................. 12

304-1 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE (FEBRUARY 1985)........................................... 12 DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE................................................................13 305-2 REPORT OF CONSULTANTS (MARCH 1986)..................................................13 305-5 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (MARCH 1986)..................................................13 305-6 DELIVERABLES (MARCH 1986)........................................................... 13 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA............................................................. 14 306-1 INVOICE AND CONTRACT FINANCING REQUEST SUBMISSION (JAN 2007)........................ 14 306-1a INVOICE AND CONTRACT FINANCING REQUESTS SUBMISSION (ALTERNATE I) (JAN 2007)......... 14 306-2 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (JANUARY 1989)............ 14 306-5 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) (FEB 2006)............................... 14 306-8 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR (FEB 1985)................................................... 14 306-9 PROVISIONAL AND NEGOTIATED FINAL OVERHEAD RATES (OCTOBER 1993)...................... 14 307-12 CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACT (AUGUST 1998)...............................................15 SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS............................................................ 16 3452.208-70 PRINTING (AUG 1987)......................................................... 16 301-20 PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION AGAINST INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (FEB 1995)...... 16 307-2 KEY PERSONNEL DESIGNATION (MARCH 1985).............................................. 16 307-3 DUAL COMPENSATION (MARCH 1985)......................................................16 307-5 PAYMENT OF TRAVEL EXPENSES AND FEES FOR ED EMPLOYEES (MARCH 1985)................... 16 307-7a PUBLICATION AND AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTION (MAY 1997)................................. 16 307-13 DEPARTMENT SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (JUNE 2006)....................................... 17 307-15 WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS - SECURITY (JUN 2006)............................. 17 307-19 REDACTED PROPOSALS (DECEMBER 1998)................................................. 18 307-24 CONSULTANT SERVICES AND CONSENT (APRIL 1986)...................................... 18 316-1 ACCESSIBILITY OF SOFTWARE (OCTOBER 1999)........................................... 18 317-1 ACCOMMODATION/ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE DISABLED (OCTOBER 1999)........................ 19 3452.227-70 PUBLICATION AND PUBLICITY (AUG 1987)......................................... 20 CONTRACT CLAUSES......................................................................... 21

PAGE 3 OF 64

Table of Contents
I. 1 I. 2 I. 3 I. 4 I. 5 I. 6 I. 7 I. 8 I. 9 I. 10 I. 11 I. 12 I. 13 I. 14 I. 15 I. 16 I. 17 I. 18 I. 19 I. 20 I. 21 I. 22 I. 23 I. 24 I. 25 I. 26 I. 27 I. 28 I. 29 I. 30 I. 31 I. 32 I. 33 I. 34 I. 35 I. 36 I. 37 I. 38 I. 39 I. 40 I. 41 I. 42 I. 43 I. 44 I. 45 52.203-3 52.203-5 52.203-6 52.203-7 52.203-8 52.203-12 52.203-13 52.203-14 52.204-7 52.204-10 52.209-6 52.215-2 52.215-8 52.215-10 52.215-14 52.215-21 52.215-22 52.216-7 52.219-8 52.219-9 52.219-16 52.222-3 52.222-26 52.222-35 52.222-36 52.222-37 52.222-39 52.222-50 52.222-54 52.223-6 52.223-13 52.223-14 52.224-1 52.224-2 52.225-13 52.225-20 52.227-1 52.227-16 52.227-17 52.228-7 52.230-6 52.232-2 52.232-8 52.232-9 52.232-11 GRATUITIES (APR 1984).......................................................... 21 COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984).................................... 21 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006)................ 21 ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010).............................................21 CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (OCT 2010)..... 21 CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010)...................... 21 DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTER(S) (DEC 2007)....................................... 21 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)......................................21 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (JUL 2010) .. 21 PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT´s INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS AUDIT AND RECORDS--NEGOTIATION (OCT 2010)......................................21 ORDER OF PRECEDENCE--UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997)........................ 21 PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)........ 22 INTEGRITY OF UNIT PRICES (OCT 2010).......................................... 22 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED LIMITATIONS ON PASS-THROUGH CHARGES -- IDENTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACT EFFORT (OCT ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002)......................................... 22 UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011).............................. 22 SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011)..................................22 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999)............................ 22 CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)...................................................... 22 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007)................................................. 22 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS. [SEP 2010]....................................22 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010.................... 22 EMPLOYMENT REPORTS VETERANS (SEP 2010)........................................23 {52.222-39} [RESERVED]........................................................23 COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)...................................23 EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JAN 2009)................................ 23 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)................................................ 23 CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003).................. 23 TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)...................................23 PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)........................................... 23 PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)........................................................ 23 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008).......................... 23 PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING RESTRICTED BUSINESS OERATIONS IN SUDAN--CERTIFICATION AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT (DEC 2007).......................................... 23 ADDITIONAL DATA REQUIREMENTS (JUN 1987).......................................23 RIGHTS IN DATA--SPECIAL WORKS (DEC 2007)..................................... 24 INSURANCE--LIABILITY TO THIRD PERSONS (MAR 1996)............................... 24 ADMINISTRATION OF COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (JUN 2010)......................... 24 PAYMENTS UNDER FIXED-PRICE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONTRACTS (APR 1984)........ 24 DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (FEB 2002)....................................... 24 LIMITATION ON WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS (APR 1984)...............................24 EXTRAS (APR 1984)............................................................ 24
PAGE 4 OF 64

(JAN 1997)........................................................................................ 21

DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (DEC 2010)........................................ 21

COST OR PRICING DATA--MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010)................................................... 22 2009)..............................................................................................22

(AUG 2009)........................................................................................ 23

Table of Contents
I. 46 I. 47 I. 48 I. 49 I. 50 I. 51 I. 52 I. 53 I. 54 I. 55 I. 56 I. 57 I. 58 I. 59 I. 60 I. 61 I. 62 I. 63 I. 64 I. 65 I. 66 I. 67 I. 68 I. 69 I. 70 I. 71 I. 72 I. 73 I. 74 I. 75 I. 76 I. 77 I. 78 I. 79 I. 80 I. 81 I. 82 I. 83 I. 84 I. 85 I. 86 I. 87 SECTION J J. 1 SECTION K K. 1 52.232-17 52.232-22 52.232-23 52.232-25 52.232-33 52.233-1 52.233-2 52.233-3 52.233-3 I 52.233-4 52.239-1 52.242-1 52.242-4 52.242-13 52.242-15 52.242-15 I 52.243-1 I 52.243-2 52.244-2 52.244-5 52.245-9 52.246-25 52.247-29 52.247-34 52.249-2 52.249-6 52.249-8 52.249-14 52.253-1 INTEREST (OCT 2010).......................................................... 24 LIMITATION OF FUNDS (APR 1984)............................................... 24 ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986).............................................. 24 PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2008).................................................... 24 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT DISPUTES (JUL 2002)........................................................... 24 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)................................................. 25 PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)................................................ 25 PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)--ALTERNATE I (JUN 1985)....................... 25 APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)......................... 25 PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)..................................... 25 NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS (APR 1984)................................. 25 CERTIFICATION OF FINAL INDIRECT COSTS (JAN 1997)...............................25 BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)........................................................ 25 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)................................................... 25 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)--ALTERNATE I (APR 1984).......................... 25 CHANGES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1987)--ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)...................... 25 CHANGES--COST-REIMBURSEMENT (AUG 1987)......................................... 25 SUBCONTRACTS (OCT 2010)....................................................... 25 COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996).......................................25 USE AND CHARGES (AUG 2010).................................................... 26 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY--SERVICES (FEB 1997).................................. 26 F.O.B. ORIGIN (FEB 2006)..................................................... 26 F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991)................................................ 26 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT (FIXED-PRICE) (MAY 2004).......... 26 TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT) (MAY 2004).................................... 26 DEFAULT (FIXED-PRICE SUPPLY AND SERVICE) (APR 1984)............................ 26 EXCUSABLE DELAYS (APR 1984).................................................. 26 COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)........................................... 26

2003)..............................................................................................24

52.252-2a CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (MAY 2001)................................... 26 3452.202-1 DEFINITIONS (AUG 1987)........................................................ 26 3452.216-70 ADDITIONAL COST PRINCIPLES (AUG 1987)........................................ 26 3452.216-71 NEGOTIATED INDIRECT COST RATES - FIXED (AUGUST 1987)......................... 27 3452.227-71 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (AUG 1987)........................................... 27 3452.228-70 REQUIRED INSURANCE (AUG 1987)................................................ 27 3452.237-71 SERVICES OF CONSULTANTS (AUG 1987)........................................... 27 3452.242-70 LITIGATION AND CLAIMS (AUG 1987)............................................. 27 3452.242-73 ACCESSIBILITY OF MEETINGS, CONFERENCES, AND SEMINARS TO PERSONS WITH 3452.243-70 KEY PERSONNEL (AUG 1987)..................................................... 27 3452.247-70 FOREIGN TRAVEL (AUG 1987).................................................... 27 52.217-8 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999).......................................... 27 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000).......................... 27

DISABILITIES.......................................................................................27

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS..................................................................... 29 309-1a LIST OF ATTACHMENTS (APRIL 1984)...................................................29 REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS......................... 30 52.225-1 BUY AMERICAN ACT--SUPPLIES (FEB 2003).......................................... 30
PAGE 5 OF 64

Table of Contents
K. 2 K. 3 K. 4 K. 5 K. 6 K. 7 K. 8 K. 9 K. 10 K. 11 K. 12 K. 13 K. 14 K. 15 K. 16 K. 17 K. 18 SECTION L L. 1 L. 2 L. 3 L. 4 L. 5 L. 6 L. 7 L. 8 L. 9 L. 10 L. 11 L. 12 SECTION M M. 1 M. 2 M. 3 52.203-11 52.204-8 52.215-20 52.219-1 52.219-22 52.219-23 52.222-21 52.222-22 52.222-25 52.223-13 52.230-1 CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (OCT 2010)............................ 30 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (JAN 2011)............................... 33 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS (OCT 1999)................................. 34 NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION ADJUSTMENT FOR SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS CONCERNS PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)................................ 36 PREVIOUS CONTRACTS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTS (FEB 1999)........................... 36 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMPLIANCE (APR 1984)......................................37 CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003).................. 37 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (OCT 2008)................. 37

TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007)........................................................................... 30

OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)....................................................................... 32

(OCT 2008)........................................................................................ 35

307-17a CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATION (AUG 2007).................................... 39 310-1 REPRESENTATION AUTHORITY (JANUARY 2005)............................................ 40 310-10 GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION (APRIL 1984)..................... 41 310-16 POST EMPLOYMENT CONFLICT OF INTEREST (MARCH 1985)................................. 43 313-1 CERTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACTING (AUGUST 1998)...................................... 43 313-3 COMPETITIVE BUSINESS MIX CERTIFICATION (APRIL 1995)................................ 44 INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS........................................45 52.204-6 52.215-16 DATA UNIVERSAL NUMBERING SYSTEM (DUNS) NUMBER (APR 2008)........................ 45 FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (JUN 2003)................................... 45

311-2 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS (APRIL 1999)................................................... 45 311-3 TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS (MARCH 1986)........................................ 46 311-4a BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS (AUG 2007).......................................... 46 311-5 FORMS CLEARANCE PROCESS (MARCH 1986)................................................47 311-6 CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS (APRIL 1998)................................................ 48 311-9 COMMENTS ON SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT(JUNE 1998)........................ 48 314-1 PAST PERFORMANCE REPORT (MAR 1996)..................................................48 Additional Business Proposal Instructions................................................ 50 Additional General Instructions.......................................................... 52 Additional Technical Proposal Instructions............................................... 54 EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD............................................................ 61 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)............................................... 61 312-2 EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD (MAY 2004).............................................61 Evaluation Criteria for Technical Proposal................................................62

PAGE 6 OF 64

SECTION B SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS
B. 1 216-70 AWARD FEE (APR 1984)

The amount of award fee the Contractor earns, if any, is based on a subjective evaluation by the Government of the quality of the Contractor's performance in accordance with the award fee plan. The Government will determine the amount of award fee every 12 months beginning with the 13th month. . The Fee Determination Official (FDO) will unilaterally determine the amount of award fee. The FDO's determination will be in writing to the Contractor and is not subject to the "Disputes" clause. The Government may unilaterally change the award fee plan at any time and will provide such changes in writing to the Contractor prior to the beginning of the applicable evaluation period. The Contractor may submit a voucher for the earned award fee. Available award fee not earned during one period does not carry over to subsequent periods. B. 2 301-8 ESTIMATED COST, BASE FEE AND AWARD FEE (APRIL 1984)

(a) The estimated cost of this contract is To Be Announced(TBA) . (b) The base fee is TBA . (c) The award fee pool available for award for this contract is TBA . (d) This contract will be modified to reflect the award fee awarded as award fee determinations are made. B. 3 301-10 PROVISION FOR PRICING AND PAYMENT (ALTERNATE I) (AUGUST 1985)

The total fixed price of this contract is to be determined at time of award . Payment of that amount shall be made in accordance with the incorporated General Provision entitled "Payments" or "Payments under Fixed-Price Research and Development Contracts," whichever is applicable, and with any other supplementary payment scheme which may be otherwise negotiated and specified. B. 4 301-21 CONTRACT AMOUNT INCREASE/DECREASE (APRIL 1997)

(a) The Government shall have the right to unilaterally increase the not-to-exceed amount of this contract at any time in order to provide sufficient funds to cover the anticipated quantity of services and supplies for the remainder of the contract term. Additional funds will be obligated on appropriate contract modifications signed by the Contracting Officer. Such funding modifications shall state the existing total contract amount, the amount of increased funding, and the new total contract amount. (b) The Government shall also have the right to unilaterally decrease the amount of this contract in the same manner as above. B. 5 Total Contract Value

PAGE 7 OF 64

Total Contract Value: a) It is estimated that the total value to the Government for full performance of this contract will be $ TBD. 1) For the Cost Reimbursable Task, it is estimated that the total cost to the government for the full performance of this contract will be $ TBD of which sum of $ TBD represents the estimated reimbursable cost, $ TBD represents the fixed fee and $ TBD represents possible award fee. 2) For the Firm Fixed Price Tasks, the total fixed price is $ TBD.

B. 6

Type of Contract

PAGE 8 OF 64

Type of Contract: The Government contemplates award of a hybrid contract including both fixed price tasks and a cost reimbursement task from this solicitation.

Fixed Price Tasks: 1) Task 1: Planning and Management 2) Task 3: Science ICT Review Committees 3) Task 4: General Activities

Cost Reimbursement Task: 1) Task 2: Task Development

PAGE 9 OF 64

SECTION C DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/WORK STATEMENT
C. 1 302-2 SCOPE OF WORK (FEBRUARY 1985)

The contractor shall furnish all personnel, materials, services, and facilities necessary to perform the requirements set forth in the Statement of Work, Attachment A (dated 04/14/2011) . This shall also be done in accordance with the specified General and Special Provisions and the contractor's final technical proposal, which are hereby incorporated by reference as a part of the contract.

PAGE 10 OF 64

SECTION D PACKAGING AND MARKING
D. 1 303-1 SHIPMENT AND MARKING (MARCH 1986)

(a) The contract number shall be placed on or adjacent to all exterior mailing or shipping labels of deliverable items called for by the contract. (b) Ship deliverable items to: To be determined (c) Mark deliverables for: To be determined

PAGE 11 OF 64

SECTION E INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE
E. 1 52.246-5 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--COST-REIMBURSEMENT (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.246-5) E. 2 52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996)

(a) "Definitions." "Services," as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or utilized in the performance of services. (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) If the Government performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) If any of the services do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by reperformance, the Government may-(1) Require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements; and (2) Reduce the contract price to reflect the reduced value of the services performed. (f) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or to take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the Government may-(1) By contract or otherwise, perform the services and charge to the Contractor any cost incurred by the Government that is directly related to the performance of such service; or (2) Terminate the contract for default.

(End of Clause) E. 3 304-1 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE (FEBRUARY 1985)

Pursuant to the inspection clause, Section I, final inspection and acceptance of all contracted items shall be made by the Contracting Officer.

PAGE 12 OF 64

SECTION F DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE
F. 1 305-2 REPORT OF CONSULTANTS (MARCH 1986)

The contractor must maintain a written report for the files on the results of all consultations charged to this contract. must include, at a minimum: This report

(1) the consultant's name, dates, hours

and amount charged to the contract, (2) the names of the contractor or subcontractor staff to whom the services are provided, and (3) the results of the subject matter of the consultations. F. 2 305-5 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (MARCH 1986)

Performance hereunder shall be completed within 6 months of the date of contract award, inclusive of all specified deliveries and/or task work. F. 3 305-6 DELIVERABLES (MARCH 1986)

All deliverables shall be submitted in accordance with the kinds, quantities and dates indicated in the attached Statement of Work.

PAGE 13 OF 64

SECTION G CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA
G. 1 306-1 INVOICE AND CONTRACT FINANCING REQUEST SUBMISSION (JAN 2007)

(A) The Government agrees to pay the Contractor, as complete compensation for all work and services performed and materials furnished under this contract those allowable costs defined in the contract clause entitled "ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT" in an amount not to exceed the estimated costs specified in the contract. (B) The contractor shall submit invoices electronically as an attachment to a message to OCFOCAMINVOICING@ED.GOV. The subject area of the message shall contain the invoice number, contract number, and contract specialist's name. The electronic copy of the invoice shall be in a format that is supported by Microsoft Office (Microsoft Word or Excel), or Adobe Acrobat (.pdf). (C) The Contractor shall prepare invoices and contract financing requests in accordance with the attached billing instructions. (See Attachment D.Invoices shall be submitted concurrently with the monthly report. ) G. 2 306-1a INVOICE AND CONTRACT FINANCING REQUESTS SUBMISSION (ALTERNATE I) (JAN 2007)

(A) Payments shall be rendered in accordance with the payments clause(s) of the incorporated contract clause section and with those otherwise specified rated or fixed price amounts. (B) The contractor shall submit invoices electronically as an attachment to a message to OCFOCAMINVOICING@ED.GOV. The subject area of the message shall contain the invoice number, contract number, and contract specialist's name. The electronic copy of the invoice shall be in a format that is supported by Microsoft Office (Microsoft Word or Excel), or Adobe Acrobat (.pdf). Invoices shall be submitted concurrently with the monthly report. Invoices shall only be paid after ED accepts the deliverable. Invoices will clearly state what deliverable is being paid for. G. 3 306-2 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (JANUARY 1989)

(A) The contractor shall request written authorization from the contracting officer before acquiring any contractually necessary property to which the Government will have title. The request shall include complete descriptions of all individual items which will exceed $1,000 in cost, including:

(a) a brief statement of function; (b) manufacturer and manufacturer's brand name, model or part number; (c) vendor and its proposed price; (B) Management of government property in the possession of the contractor shall be in accordance with FAR Part 45. The contractor shall provide an annual report of total property acquisition cost, as required by FAR 45.505-14. G. 4 306-5 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) (FEB 2006)

(a) The Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) is responsible for the technical aspects of the project, technical liaison with the Contractor, and any other responsibilities that are specified in the contract. These responsibilities include inspecting all deliverables, including reports, and recommending acceptance or rejection to the Contracting Officer. (b) The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, terms or conditions. Any contractor requests for changes shall be submitted in writing directly to the Contracting Officer or through the COR. No such changes shall be made without the written authorization of the Contracting Officer. (c) The COR's name and address: To Be Determined. The COR may be changed by the Government at any time, but notification of the change, including the name and address of the successor COR, will be provided to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer in writing. G. 5 306-8 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR (FEB 1985)

The Contractor shall designate one individual to be contacted during the period of the contract for prompt contract administration. TBA G. 6 306-9 PROVISIONAL AND NEGOTIATED FINAL OVERHEAD RATES (OCTOBER 1993)
PAGE 14 OF 64

(a) Pending the establishment of final indirect cost rates, as required by the clause entitled "Allowable Cost and Payment" FAR 52.216-7, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for its indirect costs on the basis of the negotiated provisional, or billing, rates as set forth below. Those rates shall remain in effect until the contract is modified to incorporate either negotiated final indirect rates, as directed by either paragraph (d) or (f) of the same clause, as applicable, or revised provisional indirect cost rates, as explained in paragraph (e). (b) The provisional overhead rate(s) applicable to this contract: To be inserted at time of award G. 7 307-12 CONSENT TO SUBCONTRACT (AUGUST 1998) in the amount stated in its final

Consent is hereby given to the contractor to subcontract with TBD proposal revision.

PAGE 15 OF 64

SECTION H SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
H. 1 3452.208-70 PRINTING (AUG 1987)

Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the contractor shall not engage in, nor subcontract for, and printing (as that term is defined in Title I of the Government Printing and Binding Regulations in effect on the effective date of this contract) in connection with the performance of work under this contract; except that performance involving the reproduction of less than 5,000 production units of any one page, or less than 25,000 production units in the aggregate of multiple pages, shall not be deemed to be printing. A production unit is defined as one sheet, size 8 1/2 by 11 inches, and one side and color only. (End of clause) H. 2 301-20 PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION AGAINST INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (FEB 1995)

The contractor shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 including Section 302, which provides that: "No individual shall be discriminated against on the basis of disability in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation by any person who owns, leases (or leases to), or operates a place of public accommodation." Failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, shall be considered a failure to comply with the terms of this contract. H. 3 307-2 KEY PERSONNEL DESIGNATION (MARCH 1985)

In accordance with the contract clause entitled "Key Personnel", the following key personnel are considered to be essential to the work being performed: To be determined H. 4 307-3 DUAL COMPENSATION (MARCH 1985)

If a project staff member, subcontractor, or consultant is involved in two or more projects, at least one of which is supported by Federal funds, he/she may not be compensated for more than 100 percent of his/her time during any part of the period of dual involvement. That is, an individual is prohibited from receiving double payment for any given period of work. H. 5 307-5 PAYMENT OF TRAVEL EXPENSES AND FEES FOR ED EMPLOYEES (MARCH 1985)

The Contractor shall not use any contract funds, or funds from other sources, to pay the travel expenses of, or a fee to, ED employees for lectures, attending program functions, or any other activities in connection with this contract. H. 6 307-7a PUBLICATION AND AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTION (MAY 1997)

Except as provided below, neither the development or production of any publication or audiovisual product is authorized. In the event that development or production of any publication or audiovisual product subsequently becomes a contract requirement (expressed or implied), the contractor shall obtain approval in writing from the Contracting Officer. Until the contractor obtains such Contracting Officer approval, no costs for development or production of the publication or audiovisual product shall be allowable. The following items are excepted from the approval requirements of this clause:

1.

Up to 50 copies of progress and final reports.

PAGE 16 OF 64

The Contractor shall ensure that any publication or audiovisual product developed or produced under this contract is compatible with the Department of Education's responsibilities under the Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,29 U.S.C. 794 and 794d, as amended, to ensure the accessibility of its programs and activities to individuals with disabilities. The contractor shall not distribute or release to the public any publication or audiovisual product developed or produced under this contract without written authorization of the Contracting Officer. To obtain this authorization, the contractor shall submit 2 copies of the publication or audiovisual product to the Contracting Officer. Since the Contracting Officer must obtain internal public affairs or other clearances, the Contractor should plan at least 45 days to obtain authorization from the Contracting Officer. Except as may be provided elsewhere, the contractor may develop and produce at its own expense, results of work under this contract (see Publication and Publicity). H. 7 307-13 DEPARTMENT SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (JUNE 2006)

The Contractor and its subcontractors shall comply with Department Security policy requirements as set forth in: A. The Statement of Work of this contract; B. The Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579, U.S.C. 552a); C. The U. S. Department of Education Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy, OCIO-01 (March 2006); and D. The U.S. Department of Education Departmental Directive OM:5-101, "Contractor Employee Personnel Security Screenings." The Contractor may request copies of the above referenced documents by contacting the Contract Specialist via phone at 202-245-6167 or via e-mail at vidya.vish@ed.gov . Contractor employee positions required under this contract and their designated risk levels: High Risk (HR): See Attachment F - Personal Security Risk Level Moderate Risk (MR): See Attachment F - Personal Security Risk Level Low Risk (LR): See Attachment F - Personal Security Risk Level All contractor employees must undergo personnel security screening if they will be employed for thirty (30) days or more, in accordance with Departmental Directive OM:5-101, "Contractor Employee Personnel Screenings." The type of screening and the timing of the screening will depend upon the nature of the contractor position, the type of data to be accessed, and the type of information technology (IT) system access required. Personnel security screenings will be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm the individual could cause. The contractor shall: - Ensure that all nonU.S. citizen contractor employees are lawful permanent residents of the United States or have appropriate work authorization documents as required by the Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Immigration and Appeals, to work in the United States. - Ensure that no employees are assigned to High Risk designated positions prior to a completed preliminary screening. - Submit all required personnel security forms to the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) within 24 hours of an assignment to a Department contract and ensure that the forms are complete. - Ensure that no contractor employee is placed in a higher risk position than that for which he or she was previously approved, without the approval of the Contracting Officer or his or her representative, the Department Personnel Security Officer, and the Computer Security Officer. - Ensure that all contractor employees occupying High Risk designated positions submit forms for reinvestigation every five (5) years for the duration of the contract or if there is a break in service to a Department contract of 365 days or more. - Report to the COR all instances of individuals seeking to obtain unauthorized access to any departmental IT system, or sensitive but unclassified and/or Privacy Act protected information. - Report to the COR any information that raises an issue as to whether a contractor employee's eligibility for continued employment or access to Department IT systems, or sensitive but unclassified and/or Privacy Act protected information, promotes the efficiency of the service or violates the public trust. - Withdraw from consideration under the contract any employee receiving an unfavorable adjudication determination. Officially notify each contractor employee if he or she will no longer work on a Department contract. - Abide by the requirements in Departmental Directive OM:5-101, "Contractor Employee Personnel Screenings." Further information including definitions of terms used in this clause and a list of required investigative forms for each risk designation are contained in Departmental Directive OM:5-101, "Contractor Employee Personnel Screenings." Failure to comply with the contractor personnel security requirements may result in a termination of the contract for default. H. 8 307-15 WITHHOLDING OF CONTRACT PAYMENTS - SECURITY (JUN 2006)

PAGE 17 OF 64

Notwithstanding any other payment provisions of this contract, failure of the contractor to submit required forms, responses or reports when due; failure to perform or deliver required work, supplies, or services; or, failure to meet any of the requirements of the contract, to include all requirements as specified in Clause 307-13 Department Security Requirements, will result in the withholding of payments under this contract in such amounts as the contracting officer deems appropriate, unless the failure arises out of causes beyond the control, and without the fault of negligence, of the contractor, as defined by the clause entitled "Excusable Delays or Default", as applicable. The Government shall promptly notify the contractor of its intention to withhold payment of any invoice or voucher submitted. Payment will be withheld until the failure is cured, a new delivery schedule is agreed upon, or payment is made as part of a termination settlement. H. 9 307-19 REDACTED PROPOSALS (DECEMBER 1998)

The contractor shall provide a redacted copy of its successful technical proposal to the Contracting Officer within five (5) days after contract award. The redacted proposal shall be suitable for release by the Government under a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The redacted proposal shall be submitted in an electronic format that is readable by Microsoft Office applications. H. 10 307-24 CONSULTANT SERVICES AND CONSENT (APRIL 1986)

The Contractor shall obtain the consent of the Contracting Officer prior to using any consultant on this contract. The Contractor

shall determine whether any consultant that is used has in effect an agreement with another Federal agency for similar or like services and, if so, shall notify the Contracting Officer. To be completed at time of award H. 11 316-1 ACCESSIBILITY OF SOFTWARE (OCTOBER 1999)

The Department of Education (ED) considers universal accessibility to information a priority for all its employees and external customers, including individuals with disabilities. Under Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. sections 794 and 794d,as amended), ED must ensure the accessibility of its programs and activities, specifically its obligation to acquire and use accessible electronic and information technology. ED maintains the manual, "Requirements for Accessible Software Design," to convey the accessibility

needs of the Department to the developers and suppliers of computer applications. To comply with the provisions of this

clause, the contractor may use the edition of the ED manual "Requirements for Accessible Software Design" in effect at the date of award of this contract or any more recent edition. A copy of the most recent edition of the manual may be found at
PAGE 18 OF 64

http://www.ed.gov/fund/contract/apply/clibrary/software.html (a) Software delivered to or developed for ED--Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (c) of this clause, all software delivered to or developed for ED, under this contract, for use by ED's employees or external customers must meet all the requirements of the ED manual "Requirements for Accessible Software Design." However, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause, the contracting officer may waive a particular requirement of the ED Manual, provided that ED's use of the software will meet the requirements of Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. sections 794 and 794d, as amended). (b) Software enhanced or modified for ED--Any enhancements and other modifications, made under this contract to software for use by ED's employees or external customers, are subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this clause, regardless of where or how the software was first developed. Except as otherwise specified elsewhere in the contract schedule, the contractor is only required to ensure that enhancements or modifications (not other, preexisting features or components) of the software fully comply with the accessibility requirements of paragraph (a). However, the contractor is encouraged point out any preexisting features or components that do not meet accessibility requirements and to suggest solutions to ensure the software complies. (c) Waiver of requirements--It is recognized that new technologies may provide solutions that are not envisioned in or consistent with the provisions of the manual "Requirements for Accessible Software Design." Also, compliance with certain requirements of the manual may not be feasible for the particular software required. In such extraordinary circumstances, the contracting officer may grant a waiver, in writing, to any requirement of the manual or of this clause if it furthers a public interest of ED and will not significantly impair ED's ability to ensure accessibility of its programs and activities to all its employees and external customers, including individuals with disabilities. To request a waiver, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing, listing the specific accessibility requirements that would not be met and explaining how the accessibility of a particular feature can be achieved by alternative means or why it is not feasible to make a feature of the software accessible. (d) Condition of payment--The contractor agrees that compliance with the provisions of this clause upon delivery of the software to ED is a condition of payment under this contract. H. 12 317-1 ACCOMMODATION/ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE DISABLED (OCTOBER 1999)

The acquisition and management of Federal Information Processing (FIP) resources shall be conducted in a manner that ensures access to computer and telecommunications products and services by all individuals, both federal employees and the public sector, including individuals with disabilities. The acquisition,

management and utilization of FIP resources are subject to

PAGE 19 OF 64

the computer accommodation

and information accessibility for

individuals with disabilities contained in Section 508 of the the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, P.L. 105-220; Telecommunications Act of 1996,P.L. 104-104 February 1996, 110 Stat. 56; and in the Telecommunications Accessibility Enhancement Act, P.L. 100-542 October 1988.

FIP resources required under this contract include computer accommodation and information accessibility where the goal is to ensure full access, integration, and continuity of support to all individuals, including individuals with disabilities. "Computer accommodation" means the acquisition or modification of FIP resources to minimize the functional limitations of individuals with disabilities so as to promote productivity and provide access to work-related or public information resources. "Individuals with disabilities" are individuals speech and/or mobility.

with limitations of vision, hearing,

The contractor shall ensure that FIP resources are equally provided to all individuals, including individuals with disabilities. H. 13 3452.227-70 PUBLICATION AND PUBLICITY (AUG 1987)

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the contractor is encouraged to publish and otherwise promote the results of its work under this contract. A copy of each article or work submitted by the contractor for publication shall be promptly sent to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. The contractor shall also inform the representative when the article or work is published and furnish a copy in the published form. (b) The contractor shall acknowledge the support of the Department of Education in publicizing the work under this contract in any medium. This acknowledgment shall read substantially as follows: "This project has been funded at least in part with Federal funds from the U.S. Department of Education under contract number [TO BE DETERMINED] . The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the U.S. Department of Education nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government."

PAGE 20 OF 64

SECTION I CONTRACT CLAUSES
I. 1 52.203-3 GRATUITIES (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.203-3) I. 2 52.203-5 COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.203-5) I. 3 52.203-6 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006)

(Reference 52.203-6) I. 4 52.203-7 ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.203-7) I. 5 1997) 52.203-8 CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN

(Reference 52.203-8) I. 6 52.203-12 LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.203-12) I. 7 52.203-13 CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010)

(Reference 52.203-13) I. 8 52.203-14 DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTER(S) (DEC 2007)

(Reference 52.203-14) I. 9 52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (APR 2008)

(Reference 52.204-7) I. 10 52.204-10 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (JUL 2010)

(Reference 52.204-10) I. 11 52.209-6 PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT´s INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (DEC 2010) (Reference 52.209-6) I. 12 52.215-2 AUDIT AND RECORDS--NEGOTIATION (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.215-2) I. 13 52.215-8 ORDER OF PRECEDENCE--UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997)

(Reference 52.215-8)

PAGE 21 OF 64

I. 14

52.215-10

PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.215-10) I. 15 52.215-14 INTEGRITY OF UNIT PRICES (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.215-14) I. 16 52.215-21 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA--MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010) (Reference 52.215-21) I. 17 2009) 52.215-22 LIMITATIONS ON PASS-THROUGH CHARGES -- IDENTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACT EFFORT (OCT

(Reference 52.215-22) I. 18 52.216-7 ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT (DEC 2002)

(Reference 52.216-7) I. 19 52.219-8 UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011)

(Reference 52.219-8) I. 20 52.219-9 SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011)

(Reference 52.219-9) I. 21 52.219-16 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999)

(Reference 52.219-16) (The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 22.202.) I. 22 52.222-3 CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)

(Reference 52.222-3) (The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 22.8.) I. 23 52.222-26 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007)

(Reference 52.222-26) (The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 22.1308.) I. 24 52.222-35 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS. [SEP 2010]

(Reference 52.222-35) (The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 22.1408.) I. 25 52.222-36 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010

(Reference 52.222-36)
PAGE 22 OF 64

(The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 22.1308(b). NOTE: the reports required by the following clause shall be submitted to OASVET (VETS-100); U.S. Department of Labor; 200 Constitution Ave., NW; Washington, DC 20210.) I. 26 52.222-37 EMPLOYMENT REPORTS VETERANS (SEP 2010)

(Reference 52.222-37) I. 27 52.222-39 {52.222-39} [RESERVED]

(Reference 52.222-39) I. 28 52.222-50 COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS (FEB 2009)

(Reference 52.222-50) I. 29 52.222-54 EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JAN 2009)

(Reference 52.222-54) I. 30 52.223-6 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001)

(Reference 52.223-6) I. 31 52.223-13 CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)

(Reference 52.223-13) I. 32 52.223-14 TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)

(Reference 52.223-14) I. 33 52.224-1 PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.224-1) I. 34 52.224-2 PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.224-2) I. 35 52.225-13 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)

(Reference 52.225-13) I. 36 52.225-20 (AUG 2009) PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING RESTRICTED BUSINESS OERATIONS IN SUDAN--CERTIFICATION

(Reference 52.225-20) I. 37 52.227-1 AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT (DEC 2007)

(Reference 52.227-1) I. 38 52.227-16 ADDITIONAL DATA REQUIREMENTS (JUN 1987)

(Reference 52.227-16)
PAGE 23 OF 64

I. 39

52.227-17

RIGHTS IN DATA--SPECIAL WORKS (DEC 2007)

(Reference 52.227-17) (The following clause applies except for construction and architect-engineer services or unless otherwise formally waived by the federal contract office.) I. 40 52.228-7 INSURANCE--LIABILITY TO THIRD PERSONS (MAR 1996)

(Reference 52.228-7) I. 41 52.230-6 ADMINISTRATION OF COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (JUN 2010)

(Reference 52.230-6) I. 42 52.232-2 PAYMENTS UNDER FIXED-PRICE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONTRACTS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.232-2) I. 43 52.232-8 DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (FEB 2002)

(Reference 52.232-8) (The following clause shall apply as prescribed in FAR 32.111(c)(2).) I. 44 52.232-9 LIMITATION ON WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.232-9) I. 45 52.232-11 EXTRAS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.232-11) I. 46 52.232-17 INTEREST (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.232-17) (The following clause shall apply if the contract is incrementally funded.) I. 47 52.232-22 LIMITATION OF FUNDS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.232-22) I. 48 52.232-23 ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986)

(Reference 52.232-23) I. 49 52.232-25 PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2008)

(Reference 52.232-25) I. 50 52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)

(Reference 52.232-33) I. 51 52.233-1 DISPUTES (JUL 2002)

PAGE 24 OF 64

(Reference 52.233-1) I. 52 52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(Reference 52.233-2) I. 53 52.233-3 PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)

(Reference 52.233-3) I. 54 52.233-3 I PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)--ALTERNATE I (JUN 1985)

(Reference 52.233-3 I) I. 55 52.233-4 APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)

(Reference 52.233-4) I. 56 52.239-1 PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)

(Reference 52.239-1) I. 57 52.242-1 NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.242-1) I. 58 52.242-4 CERTIFICATION OF FINAL INDIRECT COSTS (JAN 1997)

(Reference 52.242-4) I. 59 52.242-13 BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)

(Reference 52.242-13) I. 60 52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)

(Reference 52.242-15) I. 61 52.242-15 I STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)--ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.242-15 I) I. 62 52.243-1 I CHANGES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1987)--ALTERNATE I (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.243-1 I) I. 63 52.243-2 CHANGES--COST-REIMBURSEMENT (AUG 1987)

(Reference 52.243-2) I. 64 52.244-2 SUBCONTRACTS (OCT 2010)

(Reference 52.244-2) I. 65 52.244-5 COMPETITION IN SUBCONTRACTING (DEC 1996)

PAGE 25 OF 64

(Reference 52.244-5) I. 66 52.245-9 USE AND CHARGES (AUG 2010)

(Reference 52.245-9) I. 67 52.246-25 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY--SERVICES (FEB 1997)

(Reference 52.246-25) (The following clause shall apply if designated.) I. 68 52.247-29 F.O.B. ORIGIN (FEB 2006)

(Reference 52.247-29) (The following clause shall apply if designated.) I. 69 52.247-34 F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991)

(Reference 52.247-34) I. 70 52.249-2 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT (FIXED-PRICE) (MAY 2004)

(Reference 52.249-2) I. 71 52.249-6 TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT) (MAY 2004)

(Reference 52.249-6) I. 72 52.249-8 DEFAULT (FIXED-PRICE SUPPLY AND SERVICE) (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.249-8) I. 73 52.249-14 EXCUSABLE DELAYS (APR 1984)

(Reference 52.249-14) I. 74 52.253-1 COMPUTER GENERATED FORMS (JAN 1991)

(Reference 52.253-1) I. 75 52.252-2a CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (MAY 2001)

(Reference 52.252-2a) I. 76 3452.202-1 DEFINITIONS (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.202-1) (The following clause shall apply to cost reimbursement contracts with nonprofit organizations other than educational institutions, hospitals, or organizations listed in Attachment C to OMB Circular A-122.) I. 77 3452.216-70 ADDITIONAL COST PRINCIPLES (AUG 1987)

PAGE 26 OF 64

(Reference 3452.216-70) (The following clause shall apply to contracts with organizations that have fixed indirect cost rates with carry forward adjustments approved by the Government agency responsible for negotiating the organization's indirect cost rates.) I. 78 3452.216-71 NEGOTIATED INDIRECT COST RATES - FIXED (AUGUST 1987)

(Reference 3452.216-71) I. 79 3452.227-71 PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.227-71) I. 80 3452.228-70 REQUIRED INSURANCE (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.228-70) I. 81 3452.237-71 SERVICES OF CONSULTANTS (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.237-71) I. 82 3452.242-70 LITIGATION AND CLAIMS (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.242-70) I. 83 3452.242-73 ACCESSIBILITY OF MEETINGS, CONFERENCES, AND SEMINARS TO PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

(Reference 3452.242-73) I. 84 3452.243-70 KEY PERSONNEL (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.243-70) I. 85 3452.247-70 FOREIGN TRAVEL (AUG 1987)

(Reference 3452.247-70) I. 86 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days

(End of Clause) I. 87 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent
PAGE 27 OF 64

to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months Base Period will run from July 29, 2011 through January 28, 2012 Option Period I will run from January 29, 2012 through July 28, 2013 Option Period II will run from July 29, 2013 through July 28, 2014 Option Period III will run from July 29, 2014 through July 28, 2015 Option Period IV will run from July 29, 2015 through July 28, 2016

(End of Clause)

PAGE 28 OF 64

SECTION J LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
J. 1 309-1a LIST OF ATTACHMENTS (APRIL 1984) - Award Fee Plan Attachment C - Pricing Table Performance Form Attachment F - Personal Attachment H - Small Business Subcontracting (QASP)

Attachment A - Performance Work Statement Attachment B Attachment D - Billing Instructions Attachment E - Past Security Risk Level Attachment G - Conflict of Interest plan. Attachment I-Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

PAGE 29 OF 64

SECTION K REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS
K. 1 52.225-1 BUY AMERICAN ACT--SUPPLIES (FEB 2003)

(Reference 52.225-1) K. 2 52.203-11 CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007)

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision--"Lobbying contact" has the meaning provided at 2 U.S.C. 1602(8). The terms "agency," "influencing or attempting to influence," "officer or employee of an agency," "person," "reasonable compensation," and "regularly employed" are defined in the FAR clause of this solicitation entitled "Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions" (52.203-12). (b) Prohibition. The prohibition and exceptions contained in the FAR clause of this solicitation entitled "Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions" (52.203-12) are hereby incorporated by reference in this provision. (c) Certification. The offeror, by signing its offer, hereby certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress on its behalf in connection with the awarding of this contract. (d) Disclosure. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (e) Penalty. Submission of this certification and disclosure is a prerequisite for making or entering into this contract imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under this provision or who fails to file or amend the disclosure required to be filed or amended by this provision, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000, and not more than $100,000, for each such failure.

(End of Provision) K. 3 52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (OCT 2010)

(a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is (2) The small business size standard is (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) (1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronic ally, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: /_/ (i) Paragraph (d) applies. /_/ (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c) (1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:

PAGE 30 OF 64

(i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. (iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (vi) 52.214-14, Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (vii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. (ix) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (x) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xi) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans'' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA-designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (xiv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA-designated items. (xv) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvi) 52.225-4, Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (xvii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xviii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in SudanCertification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xix) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to IranCertification. This provision applies to all solicitations. (xx) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to-(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns.
PAGE 31 OF 64

(2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: (i) 52.219-19, Small Business Concern Representation for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (ii) 52.219-21, Small Business Size Representation for Targeted Industry Categories Under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (iii) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. (A) Basic. (B) Alternate I. (iv) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. (v) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. (vi) 52.222-22 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Certification. (vii) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Products (Alternate I only). (viii) 52.223-13, Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting. (ix) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. (A) Basic. (B) Alternate I. (x) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

__________________________________________________________ | FAR | | | | | Clause | Title | Date | Change | | # | | | | |_____________________|_____________|________|_____________| | | | | | | _________________ | _________ | ______ | ___________ | |_____________________|_____________|________|_____________| Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.

(End of Provision) K. 4 52.215-20 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010)

(a) "Exceptions from certified cost or pricing data." (1) In lieu of submitting certified cost or pricing data, offerors may submit a written request for exception by submitting the information described in the following paragraphs. The Contracting Officer may require additional supporting information, but only to the extent necessary to determine whether an exception should be granted, and whether the price is fair and reasonable.

PAGE 32 OF 64

(i) "Identification of the law or regulation establishing the price offered. If the price is controlled under law by periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a governmental body, attach a copy of the controlling document, unless it was previously submitted to the contracting office. (ii) "Commercial item exception." For a commercial item exception, the offeror shall submit, at a minimum, information on prices at which the same item or similar items have previously been sold in the commercial market that is adequate for evaluating the reasonableness of the price for this acquisition. Such information may include-(A) For catalog items, a copy of or identification of the catalog and its date, or the appropriate pages for the offered items, or a statement that the catalog is on file in the buying office to which the proposal is being submitted. Provide a copy or describe current discount policies and price lists (published or unpublished), e.g., wholesale, original equipment manufacturer, or reseller. Also explain the basis of each offered price and its relationship to the established catalog price, including how the proposed price relates to the price of recent sales in quantities similar to the proposed quantities; (B) For market-priced items, the source and date or period of the market quotation or other basis for market price, the base amount, and applicable discounts. In addition, describe the nature of the market; (C) For items included on an active Federal Supply Service Multiple Award Schedule contract, proof that an exception has been granted for the schedule item. (2) The offeror grants the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative the right to examine, at any time before award, books, records, documents, or other directly pertinent records to verify any request for an exception under this provision, and the reasonableness of price. For items priced using catalog or market prices, or law or regulation, access does not extend to cost or profit information or other data relevant solely to the offeror#s determination of the prices to be offered in the catalog or marketplace. (b) "Requirements for certified cost or pricing data." If the offeror is not granted an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data, the following applies: (1) The offeror shall prepare and submit certified cost or pricing data, data other than certified cost or pricing data, and supporting attachments in accordance with the instructions contained in Table 15-2 of FAR 15.408, which is incorporated by reference with the same force and effect as though it were inserted here in full text. The instructions in Table 15-2 are incorporated as a mandatory format to be used in this contract, unless the Contracting Officer and the Contractor agree to a different format and change this clause to use Alternate I. (2) As soon as practicable after agreement on price, but before contract award (except for unpriced actions such as letter contracts), the offeror shall submit a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, as prescribed by FAR 15.406-2.

(End of Provision) K. 5 52.219-1 SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (JAN 2011)

(a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is (2) The small business size standard is (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a small business concern. (2) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it /_/ is, /_/ is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (5) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (6) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or

PAGE 33 OF 64

HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture:__________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more servicedisabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm#s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act.

(End of Provision) K. 6 52.219-22 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS (OCT 1999)

(a) 'General." This provision is used to assess an offeror's small disadvantaged business status for the purpose of obtaining a benefit on this solicitation. Status as a small business and status as a small disadvantaged business for general statistical purposes is covered by the provision at FAR 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representation. (b) Representations. (1) "General." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a small business under the size standard applicable to this acquisition; and either-/_/ (i) It has received certification by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B; and (A) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification;

PAGE 34 OF 64

(B) Where the concern is owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (C) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net); or /_/ (ii) It has submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material age in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (2) /_/ "For Joint Ventures." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements at 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: _________________________.] (c) "Penalties and Remedies." Anyone who misrepresents any aspects of the disadvantaged status of a concern for the purposes of securing a contract or subcontract shall-(1) Be punished by imposition of a fine, imprisonment, or both; (2) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (3) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Small Business Act.

(End of Provision) K. 7 2008) 52.219-23 NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION ADJUSTMENT FOR SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS CONCERNS (OCT

(a) "Definitions." As used in this clause-"Historically black college or university" means an institution determined by the Secretary of Education to meet the requirements of 34 CFR 608.2. For the Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the Coast Guard, the term also includes any nonprofit research institution that was an integral part of such a college or university before November 14, 1986. "Minority institution" means an institution of higher education meeting the requirements of Section 365(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067k), including a Hispanic-serving institution of higher education, as defined in Section 502(a) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1101a). "Small disadvantaged business concern" means an offeror that represents, as part of its offer, that it is a small business under the size standard applicable to this acquisition; and either-(1) It has received certification by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR part 124, subpart B; and (i) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification; (ii) Where the concern is owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (iii) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRO-Net). (2) It has submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR part 124, subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. In this case, in order to receive the benefit of a price evaluation adjustment, an offeror must receive certification as a small disadvantaged business concern by the Small Business Administration prior to contract award; or (3) Is a joint venture as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002(f). "Historically black college or university" means an institution determined by the Secretary of Education to meet the requirements of 34 CFR 608.2. For the Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the Coast Guard, the term also includes any nonprofit research institution that was an integral part of such a college or university before November 14, 1986. "Minority institution" means an institution of higher education meeting the requirements of Section 1046(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067k, including a Hispanic-serving institution of higher education, as defined in Section 316(b)(1) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1101a)). (b) "Evaluation adjustment."
PAGE 35 OF 64

(1) The Contracting Officer will evaluate offers by adding a factor of percent to the price of all offers, except-(i) Offers from small disadvantaged business concerns that have not waived the adjustment; and (ii) An otherwise successful offer from a historically black college or university or minority institution. (2) The Contracting Officer will apply the factor to a line item or a group of line items on which award may be made. The Contracting Officer will apply other evaluation factors described in the solicitation before application of the factor. The factor may not be applied if using the adjustment would cause the contract award to be made at a price that exceeds the fair market price by more than the factor in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause. (c) "Waiver of evaluation adjustment." A small disadvantaged business concern may elect to waive the adjustment, in which case the factor will be added to its offer for evaluation purposes. The agreements in paragraph (d) of this clause do not apply to offers that waive the adjustment. ______ Offeror elects to waive the adjustment. (d) "Agreements." (1) A small disadvantaged business concern, that did not waive the adjustment, agrees that in performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for-(i) Services, except construction, at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern; (ii) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern; (iii) General construction, at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by employees of the concern; or (iv) Construction by special trade contractors, at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by employees of the concern. (2) A small disadvantaged business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish in performing this contract only end items manufactured or produced by small disadvantaged business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts.

(End of Clause) K. 8 52.222-21 PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)

(a) "Segregated facilities," as used in this clause, means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms and wash rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees, that are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin because of written or oral policies or employee custom. The term does not include separate or single-user rest rooms or necessary dressing or sleeping areas provided to assure privacy between the sexes. (b) The Contractor agrees that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this clause is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in this contract. (c) The Contractor shall include this clause in every subcontract and purchase order that is subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this contract.

(End of Clause) K. 9 52.222-22 PREVIOUS CONTRACTS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTS (FEB 1999)

The offeror represents that-(a) It /_/ has, /_/ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; (b) It /_/ has, /_/ has not filed all required compliance reports; and (c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract awards.

PAGE 36 OF 64

(End of Provision) K. 10 52.222-25 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMPLIANCE (APR 1984)

The offeror represents that-(a) It /_/ has developed and has on file, /_/ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or (b) It /_/ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.

(End of Provision) K. 11 52.223-13 CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003)

(a) Executive Order 13148, of April 21, 2000, Greening the Government through Leadership in Environmental Management, requires submission of this certification as a prerequisite for contract award. (b) By signing this offer, the offeror certifies that-(1) As the owner or operator of facilities that will be used in the performance of this contract that are subject to the filing and reporting requirements described in section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (42 U.S.C. 11023) and section 6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) (42 U.S.C. 13106), the offeror will file and continue to file for such facilities for the life of the contract the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form (Form R) as described in sections 313(a) and (g) of EPCRA and section 6607 of PPA; or (2) None of its owned or operated facilities to be used in the performance of this contract is subject to the Form R filing and reporting requirements because each such facility is exempt for at least one of the following reasons: [Check each block that is applicable.] /_/ (i) The facility does not manufacture, process, or otherwise use any toxic chemicals listed in 40 CFR 372.65; /_/ (ii) The facility does not have 10 or more full-time employees as specified in section 313(b) (1)(A) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(b)(1)(A); /_/ (iii) The facility does not meet the reporting thresholds of toxic chemicals established under section 313(f) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(f) (including the alternate thresholds at 40 CFR 372.27, provided an appropriate certification form has been filed with EPA); /_/ (iv) The facility does not fall within the following Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes or their corresponding North American Industry Classification System sectors: (A) Major group code 10 (except 1011, 1081, and 1094. (B) Major group code 12 (except 1241). (C) Major group codes 20 through 39. (D) Industry code 4911, 4931, or 4939 (limited to facilities that combust coal and/or oil for the purpose of generating power for distribution in commerce). (E) Industry code 4953 (limited to facilities regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Subtitle C (42 U.S.C. 6921, et seq.), or 5169, or 5171, or 7389 (limited to facilities primarily engaged in solvent recovery services on a contract or fee basis); or /_/ (v) The facility is not located in the United States or its outlying areas..

(End of Provision) K. 12 52.230-1 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (OCT 2008)

Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract.

PAGE 37 OF 64

If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively. I. Disclosure Statement-Cost Accounting Practices and Certification (a) Any contract in excess of $650,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror?s proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. (c) Check the appropriate box below: /_/ (1) "Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and (ii) One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. (Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.) Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________________

The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement. /_/ (2) "Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________ The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. /_/ (3) "Certificate of Monetary Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. /_/ (4) "Certificate of Interim Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. Caution: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. II. Cost Accounting Standards-Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the

PAGE 38 OF 64

resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. /_/ The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. Caution: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more. III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts. /_/ yes /_/ no

(End of Provision) K. 13 307-17a CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATION (AUG 2007)

(A) The contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant, by signing the form in this clause, certifies that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances which could give rise to an organizational or personal conflict of interest, (see FAR Subpart 9.5 for organizational conflicts of interest) (or apparent conflict of interest), for the organization or any of its staff, and that the contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant has disclosed all such relevant information if such a conflict of interest appears to exist to a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts (or if such a person would question the impartiality of the contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant). Conflicts may arise in the following situations: 1. Unequal access to information # a potential contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant has access to non-public information through its performance on a government contract. 2. Biased ground rules # a potential contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant has worked, in one government contract, or program, on the basic structure or ground rules of another government contract, 3. Impaired objectivity # a potential contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant, or member of their immediate family (spouse, parent or child) has financial or other interests that would impair, or give the appearance of impairing, impartial judgment in the evaluation of government programs, in offering advice or recommendations to the government, or in providing technical assistance or other services to recipients of Federal funds as part of its contractual responsibility. "Impaired objectivity" includes but is not limited to the following situations that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question a person's objectivity: - financial interests or reasonably foreseeable financial interests in or in connection with products, property, or services that may be purchased by an educational agency, a person, organization, or institution in the course of implementing any program administered by the Department; - significant connections to teaching methodologies or approaches that might require or encourage the use of specific products, property or services; or - significant identification with pedagogical or philosophical viewpoints that might require or encourage the use of a specific curriculum, specific products, property or services. Offerors must provide the disclosure described above on any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) regardless of their opinion that such a conflict or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) would not impair their objectivity. In a case in which an actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest) is disclosed, the Department will take appropriate actions to eliminate or address the actual or potential conflict, including but not limited to mitigating or neutralizing the conflict, when appropriate, through such means as ensuring a balance of views, disclosure with the appropriate disclaimers, or by restricting or modifying the work to be performed to avoid or reduce the conflict. In this clause , the term "potential conflict" means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest.

PAGE 39 OF 64

(B) The contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant agrees that if "impaired objectivity", or an actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflict of interest) is discovered after the award is made, it will make a full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions that the Contractor has taken or proposes to take, after consultation with the Contracting Officer, to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict (or apparent conflict of interest). (C) Remedies - The Government may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. If the Contractor was aware of a potential conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose or misrepresented relevant information to the Contracting Officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. These remedies include imprisonment for up to five years for violation of Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 1001 and fines of up to $5000 for violation of Title 31, U.S. Code, Section 3802. Further remedies include suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government. The Contractor may also be required to reimburse the Department for costs the Department incurs arising from activities related to conflicts of interest. An example of such costs would be those incurred in processing Freedom of Information Act requests related to a conflict of interest. (D) In cases where remedies short of termination have been applied, the contractor, subcontractor, employee or consultant agrees to eliminate the organizational conflict of interest, or mitigate it to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer. (E) The Contractor further agrees to insert in any subcontract or consultant agreement hereunder, provisions which shall conform substantially to the language of this clause, including specific mention of potential remedies and this paragraph (E). Conflict of Interest Certification The Offeror, _______________________________, hereby certifies that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no present or currently planned interests (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) relating to the work to be performed under the contract or task order resulting from Request for Proposal No. ____________ that would create any actual or potential conflict of interest (or apparent conflicts of interest) (including conflicts of interest for immediate family members: spouses, parents, children) that would impinge on its ability to render impartial, technically sound, and objective assistance or advice or result in it being given an unfair competitive advantage. In this clause, the term "potential conflict" means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. The Offeror further certifies that it has and will continue to exercise due diligence in identifying and removing or mitigating, to the Government's satisfaction, such Conflict of Interest (or apparent conflict of interest). Offeror's Name ___________________________________________________ RFP/Contract No. _________________________________________________ Signature ________________________________________________________ Title ____________________________________________________________ Date ____________________________________________________________

K. 14

310-1 REPRESENTATION AUTHORITY (JANUARY 2005)

Based on a FAR change, specifically in reference to FAR clauses 52.204-8, Annual Representations and Certifications, and 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications - Commercial Items, vendors are required to use the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA), a new, web-based, Federal Integrated Acquisition Environment (IAE) initiative that centralizes and standardizes the collection, storage and viewing of many of the representations and certifications required by the Federal
PAGE 40 OF 64

Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and previously found in Section K.

Vendors

should go to http://orca.bpn.gov/ to complete the requirements of Section K of the solicitation. still be completed. However, all FAR and ED clauses NOT in ORCA should

The offeror makes the following Representations and Certifications as part of its proposal (check or complete all appropriate boxes or blanks on the following pages).

_________________________________ (Name of Offeror)

____________________ (RFP No.)

_________________________________ (Signature of Authorized Individual)

____________________ (Date)

____________________________________________________________________ (TYPED NAME OF AUTHORIZED INDIVIDUAL)

Note:

The penalty for making false statements in offers is

prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001.

The Representations and Certifications must be executed by an individual authorized to bind the offeror. K. 15 310-10 GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION (APRIL 1984)

Offerors or quoters are requested to provide information regarding the following items in sufficient detail to allow a full and complete business evaluation. If the question indicated is not If the

applicable or the answer is none, it should be annotated. offeror has previously submitted the information, it should

certify the validity of that data currently on file at ED or update all outdated information on file. (A) Contractor's Name: _________________________________________

PAGE 41 OF 64

(B)

Address (If financial records are maintained at some other location, show the address of the place where the records are kept): ____________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ Telephone Number: __________________________________________ Individual(s) to contact re this proposal: _________________ ____________________________________________________________ Cognizant Government: Audit Agency: ______________________________________________ Address: ___________________________________________________ Auditor: ___________________________________________________ (1)

(C) (D)

(E)

(F)

Work Distribution for the Last Completed Fiscal Accounting Period: Sales: Government cost-reimbursement type prime contracts and subcontracts: $_________ Government fixed-price prime contracts and subcontracts: $_________ Commercial Sales: $_________ Total Sales: $_________ (2) Total Sales for first and second fiscal years immediately preceding last completed fiscal year. Total Sales for First Preceding Fiscal Year $_________ Total Sales for Second Preceding Fiscal Year $_________ (G) Is company an ED rate entity or division? ___________________________________________________________ If a division or subsidiary corporation, name parent company: ___________________________________________________________ (H) Date Company Organized: ___________________________________ (I) Manpower: Total Employees: __________________________________________ Direct: ___________________________________________________ Indirect: _________________________________________________ Standard Work Week (Hours): _______________________________ (J) Commercial Products: ______________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ (K) Attach a current organizational chart of the company. (L) Description of Contractor's system of estimating and accumulating costs under Government contracts. (Check appropriate blocks.) Estimated/ Standard Actual Cost Cost Estimating System Job Order ___________ ________ Process ___________ ________ Accumulating System Job Order ___________ ________ Process ___________ ________ Has your cost estimating system been approved by any Government agency? Yes __________ No __________ If yes, give name and location of agency: ________________ ____________________________________________________________ Has your cost accumulation system been approved by any Government agency? Yes __________ No __________ If yes, give name and address of agency: __________________ ____________________________________________________________ (M) What is your fiscal year period? (Give month-to-month dates): ____________________________________________________________
PAGE 42 OF 64

(N)

(O)

(P)

(Q)

(R)

What were the indirect cost rates for your last completed fiscal year? Fiscal Indirect Basis Year Cost Rate Allocation Fringe Benefits _________ __________ Overhead _________ __________ G&A Expense _________ __________ Other _________ __________ Have the proposed indirect cost rate(s) been evaluated and accepted by any Government agency? Yes _______ No_______ If yes, name and location of the Government agency: ______________________________________________________________ Date of last pre-award audit review by a Government agency: ________ (If the answer is no, data supporting the proposed rates must accompany the cost or price proposal. A breakdown of the items comprising overhead and G&A must be furnished.) Cost estimating is performed by: Accounting Department: _________________________________ Contracting Department: _________________________________ Other (describe) ________________________________________ Has system of control of Government property been approved by a Government agency? Yes __________ No __________ If yes, name and location of the Government agency: ___________________________________________________________ Purchasing Procedures: Are purchasing procedures written? Yes _______ No_______ Has your purchasing system been approved by a Government agency? Yes __________ No __________ If yes, name and location of the Government agency: ___________________________________________________________ Does your firm have an established written incentive compensation or bonus plan? Yes __________ No __________ 310-16 POST EMPLOYMENT CONFLICT OF INTEREST (MARCH 1985)

K. 16

The contractor certifies that in developing a proposal in response to the solicitation for this contract, it has not utilized the services of any former Education Department (ED) employee who, while working for the Government, participated personally and substantially in, or was officially responsible for, the development or drafting of the solicitation for this contract. The contractor further certifies

that it did not utilize the services of such an ED employee in assisting or representing the offeror at negotiations for this contract. K. 17 313-1 CERTIFICATION OF SUBCONTRACTING (AUGUST 1998)

I certify that at least the percentage of work required by 13 CFR 124.314 shall be performed by employees of my firm and that SBA approval will be obtained prior to entering into a subcontract with any other concern. Those percentages are: [_] SERVICES (except construction) -- At least 50 percent of the cost o contract performance incurred for labor must be expended for employees of the 8(a) concern. [_] SUPPLIES (other than from regular dealer) -- At least 50

PAGE 43 OF 64

percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies, not including the cost of materials. [_] GENERAL CONSTRUCTION -- At least 15 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, must be expended for employees of the 8(a) concern. [_] CONSTRUCTION BY SPECIAL TRADE CONTRACTORS -- At least 25 percent of the cost of contract, no including the cost of materials, must be expended form employees of the 8(a) concern. K. 18 (A) [ (B) [ 313-3 COMPETITIVE BUSINESS MIX CERTIFICATION (APRIL 1995) ] The offeror is in the developmental stage. ] The offeror acknowledges that it is currently in the transition stage of 8(a) Program participation and certifies that it is compliance with the non 8(a) business activity targets established pursuant to 13 CFR 124.312(c). ] The offeror certifies that it is in compliance with the remedial measures imposed by SBA, if any, pursuant to 13 CFR 124.312(c)(9) [Misrepresentation by falsely certifying to past compliance with the non-8(a) business activity targets established in the business Punishment by a fine of not more than $500,000 or imprisonment for not more than 10 years, or both; The administrative remedies prescribed by the Program fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 (31 USC 3801-3812); Suspension and debarment as specified in 13 CFR 145 of Subpart 9.4 of Title 48 Code of Federal Regulation (or any successor regulation) on the basis that such misrepresentation indicates a lack of business integrity that seriously and directly effects the present responsibility of a person or entity to transact business with the Federal Government; and Ineligibility for participation in any program or activity conducted under the authority of the Small Business Act of the Small Business Investment Act for a period of not to exceed 3 years.]

(C) [

(1) (2) (3)

(4)

PAGE 44 OF 64

SECTION L INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS
L. 1 52.204-6 DATA UNIVERSAL NUMBERING SYSTEM (DUNS) NUMBER (APR 2008)

(a) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS number or "DUNS+4" that identifies the offeror''s name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The DUNS number is a nine-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet, Inc. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. (b) If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. (1) An offeror may obtain a DUNS number-(i) Via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the offeror does not have internet access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at 1-866-705-5711 if located within the United States; or (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror the a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (2) The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information: (i) Company legal business name. (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized. (iii) Company physical street address, city, state and Zip Code. (iv) Company mailing address, city, state and Zip Code (if separate from physical). (v) Company telephone number. (vi) Date the company was started. (vii) Number of employees at your location. (viii) Chief executive officer/key manager. (ix) Line of business (industry). (x) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity).

(End of Provision) L. 2 52.215-16 FACILITIES CAPITAL COST OF MONEY (JUN 2003)

(a) Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the criteria for allowability in FAR 31.205-10(b) are met. One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer. (b) If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money.

(End of Provision) L. 3 311-2 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS (APRIL 1999)

The following instructions establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and content of proposals: Your special attention is directed to the requirements for technical and business proposals and past performance report to be submitted in accordance with these instructions. Any resultant contract shall include the general provisions applicable to the selected offeror's organization and type of contract awarded. Copies of general provisions may be obtained by contacting the Contracting Officer. Any additional clauses required by public law, executive order, or acquisition regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed contract, will be included. The proposal must be prepared in three parts: A "Technical Proposal," "Business Proposal," and a "Past Performance Report." Each of the parts shall be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of evaluation of the other. The technical proposal must not contain reference to cost; however, resource information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontracts, etc., must be contained in the technical proposal so that your understanding of the scope of the work may be evaluated. It must disclose your technical approach in sufficient detail to provide a clear and concise presentation

PAGE 45 OF 64

that includes, but is not limited to, the requirements of the technical proposal instructions. The proposal must be signed by an official authorized to bind your organization. You must submit an original and 8 Hardcopies copies of your technical proposal and an original and 4 hard copies copies of your business proposal and an original and one copy of your past performance report to: U.S. Department of Education Contracts and Acquisitions Management 550 12th Street, SW, 7th Floor Room 7120 , Washington, DC 20202 Hand-carried proposals must be delivered by entering the building andstopping at the Guard's Desk. Offerors are directed to call Vidya Vish, 202-245-6167 or Nina Getachew, 202-245-6407 , the Contracts and Acquisitions Management Procurement Technician responsible for receiving proposals (if no answer is received at this number please call the number listed under clause 311-6). Offerors should indicate the RFP number for which they are submitting a proposal and should have proper identification. Offerors will be required to sign in and be escorted to Contracts and Acquisitions Management, where the proposal will be officially received. Offerors should consider this delay in meeting the time specified for proposal receipt. The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M (if applicable)of this request for proposals. Offerors are encouraged to submit proposals on recycled paper with a high post-consumer waste content. It is understood that your proposal will become part of the official contract file. The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this proposed acquisition. The RFP and all of the attachments including the Statement of Work will be available on the OCFO Web Site from the Contract Information/Contract Documents On-Line Page. The Internet address is http://www.ed.gov/fund/contract/apply/currrfp.html. For technical questions on the Contracts Information Web Site, call Gary Weaver at 202/245-6138. L. 4 311-3 TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS (MARCH 1986)

Proposals which merely offer to conduct a program in accordance with the requirements of the Government's scope of work will not be eligible for award. You must submit an explanation of the proposed technical approach in conjunction with the tasks to be performed in achieving the project objectives. A detailed work plan must be submitted indicating how each aspect of the statement of work is to be accomplished. Your technical approach should be in as much detail as you consider necessary to fully explain your proposed technical approach or method. The technical proposal should reflect a clear understanding of the nature of the work being undertaken. The technical proposal must include information on how the project is to be organized, staffed, and managed. Information should be provided which will demonstrate your understanding and management of important events or tasks. You must explain how the management and coordination of consultant and/or subcontractor efforts will be accomplished. The technical proposal must include a list of names and proposed duties of the professional personnel, consultants, and key subcontractor employees assigned to the project. Their resumes should be included and should contain information on education, background, recent experience, and specific requirement related or technical accomplishments. The approximate percentage of time each individual will be available for this project must be included. The proposed staff hours for each of the above individuals should be allocated against each task or subtask for the project. The technical proposal must provide the general background, experience, and qualifications of the organization. Similar or related contracts, subcontracts, or grants should be included and contain the name of the customer, contract or grant number, dollar amount, time of performance, and the names and telephone numbers of the project officer andcontracting/grants officer. The technical proposal must contain a discussion of present or proposed facilities and equipment which will be used in the performance of the contract. The technical proposal must be prepared and submitted in the following format: L. 5 311-4a BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS (AUG 2007)

The offeror(s) business proposal must contain the following information. This RFP may contain additional RFP-specific business proposal instructions elsewhere in Section L or in Section J. A. Standard Form 33, "Solicitation, Offer and Award", the Special Provision article entitled "Contract Administrator," and "Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Offerors or Quoters of Section K" must be properly filled out and signed by an official authorized to bind the offeror. Your proposal must stipulate that it is predicated upon all the terms and conditions of this RFP. B. The information, if any, required by the provision FAR 52.215-20, "Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data, Alternative IV" as incorporated in Section L of this solicitation. C. Property and equipment - It is ED policy that contractors provide all equipment and facilities necessary for performance of contracts; however, in some instances, an exception may be granted to furnish Government-owned property or to authorize purchase with contract funds. If additional equipment must be acquired, you must include in your proposal the description and estimated

PAGE 46 OF 64

cost of each item, and whether you propose to acquire the item with your own funds. The description shall include the following elements for individual items which will exceed $1,000 in cost: (1) A brief statement of function; (2) manufacturer and manufacturer's brand name, model or part number; and (3) vendor and its proposed price. You must identify all Government-owned property in your possession and all property acquired from Federal funds, to which you have title, that is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract. D. Other Administrative Details: (1) The proposal shall list the names and telephone numbers of persons authorized to conduct negotiations. (2) Block 12 of Standard Form 33 must contain a Statement to the effect that your offer is firm for a period of at least 90 days Enter number of calendar days offer is firm for calendar days from the date of receipt of offers specified by the Government. E. Responsibility of Prospective Contractor - In order for an offeror to receive a contract, the contracting officer must first make an affirmative determination that the prospective contractor is responsible in accordance with the provisions of FAR 9.104. To assist the contracting officer in this regard, the offeror shall supply sufficient categorical descriptions and statements to establish the following: (1) The offeror's financial capability; including detail for the accounting system and controls employed by the offeror; (2) the offeror's capability to meet delivery or performance schedules; (3) the offeror's record of past performance, including a listing of references with contract and grant numbers and the addresses and phone numbers of those with whom the offeror has most recently conducted business. (4) the offeror's record of business integrity; (5) the offeror's possession of necessary organizational experience, technical skills or the ability to obtain them; (6) the offeror's possession of necessary facilities; or the ability to obtain them; (7) the offeror's compliance with subcontract requirements; and (8) any other special considerations involved in the acquisition. F. Conflict of Interest Plan - The Offeror shall submit a Conflict of Interest Plan, providing details on its policies and procedures to identify and avoid potential organizational or personal conflicts of interest (or apparent conflicts of interest). The Plan should also address procedures taken to neutralize or mitigate such conflicts, if they have not been or cannot be avoided. The Plan should indicate that such policies and procedures are operative throughout the period of performance of the contract or task order. The policies should address, at a minimum, gifts, outside activities financial interests, or other significant connections or identifications that would establish, or give the appearance of establishing, a conflict of interest. A method for periodically reviewing financial interests of employees, subcontractors and consultants, and their immediate families, in order to assess actual or apparent conflicts of interest should be included in the plan. In this clause, the term "potential conflict" means reasonably foreseeable conflict of interest. The thoroughness, completeness and effectiveness of the Plan shall be evaluated as part of the Offeror's overall proposal. The Plan will be incorporated into the contract or task order awarded to the successful Offeror. NOTE: THESE DESCRIPTIONS AND STATEMENTS SHOULD ALSO BE INCORPORATED IN THE TECHNICAL PROPOSAL, AS CONDUCIVE OF SEPARATE EXAMINATION BY THE TECHNICAL EVALUATORS DURING THE PROCESS OF TECHNICAL EVALUATION. L. 6 311-5 FORMS CLEARANCE PROCESS (MARCH 1986)

Reference is made to the General Provision entitled "Paperwork Reduction Act." If the contractor has proposed the use of any plan,

questionnaire, interview guide or other similar device which calls either for answers to identical questions from ten or more persons other than Federal employees or information from Federal employees which is outside the scope of their employment, any of which is to be used by the Federal Government or disclosed to third parties, clearances from the Deputy Under Secretary for Management or his/her delegate within the Department of Education and the Office of Management and Budget shall first be obtained. Those should be expected to take at least 120 days together. Offerors' proposals shall accordingly reflect that 120 day period in proposal timelines if the Paperwork Reduction Act is applicable.
PAGE 47 OF 64

L. 7

311-6 CLARIFICATION QUESTIONS (APRIL 1998)

Offerors must submit all clarification questions concerning this solicitation in writing to the contract specialist. Questions may be submitted via E-Mail, fax or regular mail to:

Vidya Vish vidya.vish@ed.gov and Abdulaziz.Yousuf@ed.gov ED will accept clarification questions until 10 days after the release of the solicitation . After this date ED does not guarantee that a response will be given.

Oral explanations or instructions given by the Government before the award of the contract(s) shall not be binding. Any information given to a prospective offeror concerning a solicitation will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors as an amendment to the solicitation, if that information is necessary in submitting offers or if a lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offerors. L. 8 311-9 COMMENTS ON SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT(JUNE 1998)

Small Business Comments are Important:

The Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman and 10 Regional Fairness Boards were established to receive comments from small businesses about federal agency enforcement actions. The Ombudsman will annually evaluate the enforcement activities and rate each agency's responsiveness to small business. If you wish to comment on the enforcement actions of the U.S. Department of Education, call 1-888-REG-FAIR (1-888-734-3247). L. 9 314-1 PAST PERFORMANCE REPORT (MAR 1996)

Each offeror shall submit the following information as a separately bound part of its proposal for both the offeror and proposed major subcontractors. Major, as defined here and in the remainder of

sections L and M regarding past performance, is any subcontractor that is subcontracted for a minimum of 25% of the total contract amount. Each major subcontractor shall identify the name of the prime contractor

PAGE 48 OF 64

on each of its past performance forms.

If the offeror has no relevant

corporate or organizational past performance, the offeror may substitute past performance of a predecessor company or of the offeror's management or proposed key personnel who have relevant experience. A. Each offeror shall submit information about its most recent four contracts, completed in the last three years or currently in process, which are of similar size, scope, complexity or, in any way, are relevant to the effort required by this solicitation. If the offeror's last four similar contracts are all currently in process, submit the last three similar contracts currently in process, and the most recent similar contract completed within the last three years. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of State and local governments and commercial customers. Contracts with the parent or an affiliate of the offeror may not be used. Include the following information for each contract and subcontract: 1. Identification a. Name of the contracting activity b. Program title or product name c. Contract number d. Contract type e. Period of performance, including all option periods f. Contract Value: (1) Initial projected total contract amount including all option periods (2) Final or current projected total contract amount including all option periods g. Points of Contact (1) Contracting officer and telephone and fax number and e-mail address (if known) (2) Administrative contracting officer, if different from above, and telephone and fax number and e-mail address (if known) (3) Program manager, COTR or technical officer and telephone and fax number and e-mail address (if known) 2. Work performed and relevance a. Brief synopsis of work performed b. Brief discussion of how the work performed is relevant to the statement of work in this solicitation c. Brief, specific examples of the offeror's high quality performance 3. If any of the listed contracts are award-fee or incentive contracts, include a table showing fees awarded and the minimum and maximum available fee for each period. 4. Paragraph E. below requires you to send a copy of the "Contractor Information Form" to each of your references. In your past performance report, include: a. The date you sent the "Contractor Information Form" to each reference. b. How you sent it (e.g., fax, mail, express delivery service, courier, e-mail, etc.). c. To whom you sent it including telephone and fax number and e-mail address (if known). B. The offeror may provide information on problems encountered on the contracts and subcontracts identified in A above and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. Other than the information requested in A above, offerors should not provide general information on their performance on the identified contracts. General performance information will be obtained from the references. C. Offerors should understand the difference between experience and
PAGE 49 OF 64

past performance. Experience reflects the offeror's capability of performing a requirement. Past performance reflects how well it has performed similar requirements. In assessing past performance, the quality of the offeror's past performance is of primary significance, not the quantity of previous contracts performed. An offeror's experience will be evaluated in the technical proposal. For further guidance on including information on experience or how experience will be evaluated refer to the technical proposal instructions and evaluation criteria. D. The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required. Such awards or certifications include, for example, the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award, other government quality awards, and private sector awards or certifications(e.g., the automobile industry's QS 9000, Sematech's SSQA, or ANSI/EIA-599). Identify which segment of the company (one division or the entire company) received the award or certification. Describe when the award or certification was bestowed. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence that the qualifications still apply. Information about awards will be considered in evaluation of each of the past performance subfactors described in Section M. The offeror may describe how the award relates to one or more of the subfactors. E. No later than the date proposals are due under this solicitation (see Block 9 of Standard Form 33), send a copy to each of your four references of the "Contractor Performance Information" form attached to this solicitation.Ask each reference to complete the form and return it to the contracting officer as prescribed on the form. Completed forms from references are due l0 calendar days after the date proposals are due under this solicitation. Request that the reference please return the completed form to the contracting officer by this date. Do not ask the reference to give you a copy of the completed form or any information therefrom. Beyond that initial request, you do not need to follow up with the reference; the contracting officer will contact the reference if necessary. F. Each offeror will be evaluated on its performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services. Performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor against which offerors' relative rankings will be compared to assure best value to the government. The government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration. The "Contractor Performance Information" form identified in Section J will be used to collect this information. References other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the Government with the information received in the evaluation of the offeror's past performance. L. 10 Additional Business Proposal Instructions

PAGE 50 OF 64

Additional Business Proposal Instructions: Contract Type: This is a performance-based hybrid contract with Firm-Fixed Price Tasks and Cost Reimbursement Tasks. Period of Performance: The period of performance is for 6-month base year and four option periods (option period I is 18 months long and Option periods II thru IV is 12 months long). Base Year will run from July 29, 2011 through January 28, 2012 Option I will run from January 29, 2012 through July 28, 2013 Option II will run from July 29, 2013 through July 28, 2014 Option III will run from July 29, 2014 through July 28, 2015 Option IV will run from July 29, 2015 through July 28, 2016

A copy of current indirect rate agreement must be included with the business proposal. Offerors must complete the attached Conflict of Interest Certificate (attachment G) and include in their business proposal. A conflict of Interest Certificate is also required from any proposed subcontractor and/or consultant. The thoroughness, completeness and effectiveness of the Plan shall be evaluated as part of the Offeror's overall proposal. The Plan will be incorporated into the contract or task order awarded to the successful Offeror. Proposals may include plans for subcontractors or consultants to conduct parts of the work, provided that evidence is presented that any proposed subcontractor or consultant is fully capable of performing the assigned tasks and will be working under the effective control of the offeror on the project. Letter(s) by proposed subcontractors/consultants indicating willingness to serve, if the offeror is selected, shall be included with the offeror's proposal. Offerors should include staff and labor hours for subcontractors and consultants in their technical proposal. Subcontracting and consulting arrangements including work to be done, responsibilities for tasks, reporting arrangements, and any other terms of the agreement shall be included in the proposal. Note: In addition, the U.S. Department of Education requests the contractors to provide the following information in the cover sheet of your business proposal: 1) The name of the sub-contractors 2) The size of each sub contractor 3) The percentage that will be given to each sub contractor from your total budget 4) The task/subtask that will be done by each subcontractor.

The Department anticipates awarding a contract through a Full and Open competition, for 6month base year and four option periods (each option is 12 months long). The Offerors shall submit proposed costs for each task and for the project overall, for the 60 months of the contract,( option period I is 18 months long and Option periods II thru IV is 12 months long .The

PAGE 51 OF 64

proposed budget for each task shall include the number of hours each staff person is expected to commit. The Government estimates that the overall project level of effort required to undertake the tasks described in this Performance Work Statement is approximately 2080 person years (1 person year is based on an average salary of about $127,000). The Department anticipates that this will be a hybrid contracts with Tasks 1, 3 and 4 on a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) basis and Task 3 Cost-Reimbursement (CR) basis. Offerors shall include the price of each deliverable for those tasks that are Firm Fixed Price. Offerors shall propose a Pricing and Payment Schedule for the Firm Fixed Price tasks based on the price per deliverable. ED will pay the corresponding invoice only after ED has accepted each fixed price deliverable. It is required that your business proposal contain enough information for a cost realism determination to be made. Offerors are expected to use their best business judgment in submitting the necessary information. The Contracting Officer can reject an offeror's proposal if a negative cost realism determination is made, or if proposed prices are found to NOT be reasonable. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.404-1 states "cost realism means the costs in an Offeror's proposal are a) realistic for the work to be performed; b) reflect a clear understanding of the requirements, and c) are consistent with the various elements of the Offeror's technical proposal." The offeror shall include information on the status of your accounting system, estimating system, purchasing system. If these systems have been reviewed and approved by a Government Agency, include a copy of the approval letter. Offerors should submit proposed costs itemized for each task/subtask, as well as a total proposed cost for the entire work to be performed under the task order. The proposed budget for each task and subtask should indicate the number of hours being proposed for each staff person and breakdowns of direct charges for materials, supplies, consultants, equipment, telephone, copying, travel, and any other major budget items, as well as indirect cost rates used in preparing the cost estimate. In addition, the offeror shall provide a total price per year for the firm fixed price tasks and total cost per year for the cost reimbursement tasks. Offerors shall assume, for planning and budgeting purposes, that they will develop and pilot test a sufficient number of high quality tasks to ensure 30 acceptable tasks (i.e., tasks approved by the Governing Board) at each grade level, 4, 8 and 12. Offerors shall provide estimates for adding an additional five (5) tasks; for an additional 10 tasks. The business proposal should also include costs itemized by project year. Similar cost information shall also be submitted for all subcontractors. Offerors shall submit their labor rates broken out, not fully loaded. Offerors are permitted to propose discounted rates to improve the competitiveness of their proposal. The labor mix and labor categories proposed should be consistent with the personnel proposed in the technical proposal.

L. 11

Additional General Instructions

PAGE 52 OF 64

Additional General Instructions Offerors should prepare separate technical and business/cost proposals for the project. The technical proposals must not contain reference to specific costs, although resource information may be included so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of the work may be evaluated. Cost information should be restricted to the business proposal. The offeror should include past performance information in the technical proposal (as outlined on pp. 5-6 below.) Each proposal should be separate and complete in itself so that evaluation of one may be accomplished independently of the other. An official authorized to bind your organization must sign the proposal. You must submit the technical proposal electronically in WORD AND PDF format and the cost proposal as an EXCEL WORKBOOK TO Vidya.Vish@ed.gov. In addition, you must submit one original and 8 hard copies of your technical proposal and one original and 4 hard copy of your business proposal. The proposals should not be bound; offeror's are encouraged to submit proposals in ring binders. Offerors are encouraged to conserve paper by copying double-sided. Offerors are encouraged to submit proposals on recycled paper with a high post-consumer waste content. Proposals are due by 12:00 noon, EST on, May 16, 2011, and Hand Carried Proposals shall be delivered to: U.S. Department of Education Contracts and Acquisitions Management 550 12th Street, S.W. 7th Floor, Room 7124 Washington, D.C. 20202-4230 Attn: Scott Caldwell, Contract Specialist Telephone Number: (202) 245-6009 Hand-carried proposals must be delivered by entering through the building and stopping at the Guard's Desk. Offerors are directed to call Abdulaziz Yousuf at 202-245-6193 Or Nena Getachew at 202-245-6407 or Yonantan Kifle at 202-245-6224. Offerors should indicate for which RFP they are submitting a proposal and should have proper identification. Offerors will be required to sign in and be escorted to Contracts and Acquisitions Management or wait for someone to come down to the guards' desk, at which point the proposal will be officially received. Offerors should consider this delay in meeting the time specified for proposal receipt. (Note: Proposals Sent Via: United States Postal Service or express mail service with electronic delivery verification capability to: U.S. Department of Education, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Contracts and Acquisitions Management, ATTN: **, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202.) For assistance please contact Vidya Vish at (202) 245-6167 or Nena Getachew at 202-245-6407. FAR Clause 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors ­ Competitive Acquisition, shall apply to this submission. The outside of the proposal packaging, the cover of each proposal and the header of each proposal page should contain the title "National Assessment of Educational Progress

PAGE 53 OF 64

(NAEP) Science Interactive Computer Task Development (SICT)." The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in the Technical Evaluation Criteria of this request for task order. It is understood that your proposal will become a part of the official contract file. The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. In addition, the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this proposed acquisition. The proposal shall list the names and telephone numbers of persons authorized to conduct negotiations, and a statement to the effect that your offer is firm for a period of at least 60 calendar days from the date of receipt of offers specified by the Government. ED will accept clarification questions until April 25, 2011. All clarification questions must be submitted by 12:00 noon EST, April 25, 2011. After this date ED does not guarantee that a response will be given. If an offeror submits a clarification question prior to April 25, 2011, they will not receive a response until all questions have been received by the due date. Clarification questions will be answered at the same time by April 29, 2011. All questions and answers will be provided to all offerors. Oral explanations or instructions given by the Government before the award of the contract(s) shall not be binding. Any information given to a prospective offeror concerning a solicitation will be furnished promptly to all other prospective offerors if that information is necessary in submitting offers or if a lack of it would be prejudicial to any other prospective offerors. This information will be sent to all offerors selected to receive the RFP. The government will not be obligated to provide any equipment or a work site.

L. 12

Additional Technical Proposal Instructions.

PAGE 54 OF 64

Additional Technical Proposal Instructions The offeror must show a thorough understanding of the goals and activities of the Performance Work Statement (PWS). The technical proposals must describe the offeror's plans to accomplish each activity and the relevant deliverables. The offeror must describe how the work would be performed. A proposal that simply repeats the language of the PWS without specifying the offeror's plan will not be considered eligible for award. Proposals should be precise and concise. Offerors are encouraged to suggest improvements to the approaches in the PWS, along with a justification of the merits of these alternative approaches. Offerors may find it necessary to make adjustments in the schedule provided in the PWS, in accordance with the strategies, operations, and procedures that they propose. In this case, offerors shall clearly identify any changes from the schedule in the PWS and explain the rationale for the changes. Proposals should be no more than 100 pages long, not including an appendix with the resumes of key project staff. Resumes should include each person's professional background, including degrees held and specializations, along with relevant professional experience. The resumes of proposed staff should be no longer than 10 pages each. Proposals should be double-spaced with a 12-point font size and margins of at least 1 inch. A detailed work plan must be submitted indicating how each aspect of the Performance Work Statement is to be accomplished. Proposals shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Cover Sheet A cover sheet with the name and address of the firm, as well as the signature of an officer of the firm should be provided. Table of Contents The table of contents shall include the identification of the key authors of each section, by name and proposed role in the project. Overview Offerors shall provide an introduction demonstrating expertise in developing computer-based assessments and simulations, and more specifically science interactive computer assessment tasks and scoring rubrics for grades 4, 8, and 12. In addition, the introduction should demonstrate offeror expertise and experience developing assessments aligned with science content for grades 4, 8, and 12, working with district, state and/or national assessment programs, and other tasks such as preparing clearance packages. The introduction shall also briefly describe the proposal and provide rationale for why the proposed approach will meet the intent and requirements of the contract. Technical Approach Offerors shall completely and concisely explain the strategies, operations, and procedures they propose to achieve the study's objectives, addressing each task and subtask. The offeror shall include a proposed timeline addressing the tasks and deliverables, with a summary table

PAGE 55 OF 64

presenting critical milestones with dates (starting and ending dates of each major project task and activity). Personnel Offerors shall staff the contract with personnel whose credentials and levels of professional expertise result in the effective and efficient accomplishment of work included in the contract. The contract requires, among others, the services of experienced psychometricians, science curriculum /instruction specialists, science assessment item writers, multimedia/graphic designers, usability and cognitive interviewers, translators, and documentation specialists. The contractor shall also be able to deliver high-quality products under tight time constraints. Offerors shall provide the names of the proposed project director and other key personnel and consultants, as well as a narrative description of staff qualifications as they relate to the requirements of the task order and their proposed role. Offerors shall indicate the number of proposed hours of each staff person by task/subtask and should describe the specific responsibilities of each proposed staff person. To indicate the availability of staff persons to work on this task order, offerors shall also include the proportion of each staff person's time that is committed to other projects (including but not limited to federal and non-federal obligations and outside consulting assignments). The contractor will determine all the labor categories and staffing levels appropriate for completing the goals of the project. All contractor staff shall be United States citizens or legal permanent residents. Property and Equipment While the science ICTs shall use the NAEP platform for delivery, the contractor shall have available the necessary data and word processing equipment and peripherals for accomplishing tasks under this contract. The contractor will use computer equipment and software that meet Government requirements for all pertinent computer hardware and software compliance. The equipment shall include computers, modems, and printers with high-resolution graphics capability. The contractor shall have available or make available electronic mail (e-mail) capabilities to NCES AD staff to ensure rapid exchange of information with the Department of Education and other government personnel responsible for specific tasks. In addition, the contractor shall provide courier service as required for the transportation of material used or developed in the contract. Deliverables The contractor shall provide all deliverables using the most current versions of Microsoft Office Suite products or Microsoft compatible software, including Word, Excel, and Access, SQL, etc. in order to accomplish the assigned work. The contractor shall develop NCES print and web products using currently accepted industry standards of hardware and software. Text tables shall be prepared using table-generating software that can be accessed and used by NCES. The contractor shall provide the COR with electronic versions of all tables, graphics, charts, slides, and overhead transparencies that can easily be incorporated into NCES-produced presentations and publications. The contractor shall

PAGE 56 OF 64

use the NCES NAEP assessment computer delivery system to administer the tasks. All code developed for the science ICT shall be open source and NAEP owned. Management Plan Offerors shall demonstrate how they propose to manage and coordinate contract operations and personnel working on the contract, including any subcontractors and consultants. In addition, offerors shall describe how they will coordinate contract operations with other contractor members of the NAEP Alliance. Offerors shall describe how they propose to ensure the completion of the work of the contract on time, within budget, and to ED standards of acceptable quality. Offerors shall describe functional responsibilities, lines of communication and authority for project management, including any sub-contractual arrangements. Offerors shall include an organizational chart that shows lines of authority and responsibility in the conduct of the project. Offerors shall discuss their internal quality control plan that addresses accountability in each task area. Related Corporate Experience and Past Performance Offerors shall provide a statement relating corporate experience to the task areas in this project. Offerors shall also provide a complete list of the title, contract or grant number, award date, end date, and dollar amount of all contracts and grants with the U.S. Department of Education that are current or ended after November 1, 2010. This list shall be provided for any proposed subcontractors and consultants as well as for the proposed prime contractor. For contracts or grants directly relevant to this procurement--either as a basis for corporate qualifications or as a source of potential conflicts of interest--a brief summary of the contract or grant activities shall also be provided. Additional Specific Instructions 1.1 Project initiation meetings 1.4 Annual work schedule 1.5 Annual quality control plan 1.6 Monthly Progress and Financial Reports 1.7 Staffing plan Offerors shall provide draft agendas for the two (2) project initiation meetings with NCES. Offerors shall provide a detailed draft work schedule for the first project year including due dates of deliverables. Offerors shall provide a detailed draft of a quality control plan for the first project year including all relevant activities in Tasks 1 to 4. Offerors shall provide a template of a detailed progress report.

Offerors shall provide a detailed staffing plan that includes a description of job functions, organization chart and a list of key personnel (with vitae). Offerors shall provide draft science ICT contract components of the implementation plan, which shall at a minimum include the following:

2.1 Implementation Plan

PAGE 57 OF 64

      

 

ICT construct; task development model that will be used to guide ICT development and ensure that tasks are state-of-the-art and meet the highest professional standards of quality. general assessment design; administration phases, which could include, but are not limited to, cognitive laboratories, item tryouts, usability testing, pilot testing, etc.; special administration considerations and needs if any; scoring approach as related to reporting on students' responses to cognitive items and students' actions to work through a scenariobased task; scheduling of key milestones such as pilot testing. Pilot tests usually take place one to two years prior to the operational assessment and are administered during the main assessment window. In the implementation plan, the ICT contractor may propose a pilot test outside of the normal NAEP assessment window; coordination with other NAEP contractors; and preliminary and long-term research needed if applicable.

For the task development model, offerors shall also provide example tasks used in other assessments and developed using the model similar to the one they propose for this procurement. Offerors should provide evidence of success of those tasks. 2.2 Review of Existing Item/Task Pool Offerors shall propose a process for consulting with the NAEP ID contractor to gain an understanding of the construct measured by the paper-and-pencil items and HOTs.

2.3 Developing Offerors shall describe their item development approach that is most Interactive Computer cost efficient and maximizing reusable features for rapid development Tasks and assembly of items. Offerors shall describe how they propose to ensure item accessibility. Offerors shall describe how to conduct a sensitivity/bias review. Offerors shall describe their approach to recruiting students and conducting cognitive labs and/or small-scale testing with interviews. Offerors shall provide evidence of having successfully conducted cognitive labs and/or small-scale testing previously. Sample interview booklet page from a cognitive lab conducted by the offeror should be submitted with the proposal. Offerors shall propose a way to developing a task profile record.

PAGE 58 OF 64

Offerors shall describe their plan for ensuring ICTs are compatible with the existing NCES delivery system and for adapting to modifications that may be made in the system. Offerors may gain access to the delivery platform by contacting the Contract Office. Offerors may suggest modifications to the NAEP computer delivery system or recommend another system. However, they must provide justification for doing so and explain the program and fiscal benefits to the government. 2.4 Configuring Tasks into Blocks 2.5 Determining Tasks to be Included in the Assessment 2.6 Scoring Rubric and Training Set Development The offeror shall describe the general principles that will guide working with the DAR contractor. Offerors shall provide an in-depth description of their process for determining which tasks will be included in the operational assessment. This shall include the conditions for achieving successful tasks and psychometric considerations. The offeror shall describe their experience of scoring the efficiency of the "path" taken to complete a computer-based task. The offeror shall present example scoring rubrics of a few tasks similar to ICTs, describe the scoring approach of the tasks, the training process of trainers and scorers and provide the training materials used. The offeror shall describe how they will collaborate with the MDPS contractor to ensure that tasks are scored accurately and reliably. 2.7 Determining Content Validity of Tasks 2.8 Translation Offerors shall submit a plan describing their process for determining the content validity of all cognitive tasks. This plan shall include a description of the methodology to be used and how this methodology will be implemented. Offerors shall provide a plan for translation which should describe approaches that might ensure not only the quality of the translation but also the psychometric properties of the items in each language and that will take advantage of the technology of computer-based assessment. Offerors shall describe the process they use for gaining copyright permission, maintaining and updating these agreements, the factors that will be negotiated as part of this process and provide recommendations as to when in the task development process this should happen. Offerors shall describe their plan for selecting and working with the Science ICT Standing Committee.

2.9 Copyright Releases for Text and Artwork

3.1 Science ICT Standing Committee

PAGE 59 OF 64

3.2 NAGB Assessment Development Committee Review Meetings 3.3 State Item Review Meeting

Offerors shall lay out a plan of ADC reviews at various stages of task development and describe the approach to preparing for ADC review and presenting ICTs during the review.

Offerors are to describe their process for state reviews of the tasks.

4.1 Requirements for Offerors shall describe the procedures they will implement to ensure Data collection and the protection of all system components from accidental or intentional Processing disclosure, modification, damage, misuse, and abuse from any source. 4.2.3 IMT/OMB Clearance Package 4.4.2 Storage, Protection, and Transfer of NAEP Materials at Project Completion 4.5.1 Achieving a Goal of Diversity at All Levels of Staffing 4.5.4 Corporate Capabilities The offeror shall describe in detail the procedures undertaken to prepare the IMT/OMB clearance package for any cognitive interviews/labs/usability studies if pursued. Offerors shall describe their process for cataloging and transmitting to the government the extra pool of approved tasks that are to be available for subsequent assessments and special studies.

Offerors shall describe the plan for reaching the goal of diversity at all levels of staffing.

Offerors shall demonstrate capacity to provide and maintain both the specified qualifications and more general requirements contained in the statement of work. Offerors shall show evidence that they have performed well on other projects of similar size, scope, and complexity. Offerors should be able to demonstrate: low turnover of key staff, high quality control standards, adherence to budget limitations, responsiveness to the government contract or grant specialist and project manager(s), and timeliness and acceptability of project deliverables. A demonstrated ability to meet deadlines and produce high quality products within budget is of utmost importance. Offerors shall describe available facilities and equipment and their past and current experience in similar work.

PAGE 60 OF 64

SECTION M EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD
M. 1 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)

Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government?s best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

(End of Provision) M. 2 (A) 312-2 EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD (MAY 2004) The Government will make award to the responsible offeror(s)whose

offer conforms to the solicitation, has no deficiencies (as defined in FAR 15.001) and is most advantageous to the Government, cost or price and other factors considered. For this solicitation, price will be a

substantial factor in source selection, however quality factors (including technical merit and past performance), considered together, are significantly more important than cost or price. The contracting officer will determine whether the difference in quality is worth the difference in cost or price.

(B) Past Performance 1. Each offeror's past performance will be evaluated based on the subfactors below. The past performance rating will be combined with the technical rating at a ratio of 36% past performance to technical to produce a combined quality rating. The relative importance of combined quality factors to cost or price is described in paragraph (A). 2. Past performance subfactors: a. Quality of Product or Service - compliance with contract requirements - accuracy of reports - appropriateness of personnel - technical excellence. b. Problem Resolution - anticipates and avoids or mitigates problems - satisfactorily overcomes or resolves problems prompt notification of problems - pro-active - effective contractor-recommended solutions. c. Cost Control - within budget - current, accurate and complete billings - costs properly allocated - unallowable costs not billed - relationship of negotiated costs to actual - cost efficiencies. d. Timeliness of Performance - meets interim milestones reliable - stays on schedule despite problems - responsive to technical direction - completes on time, including wrap-up and contract administration - no liquidated damages assessed. e. Business Relations - effective management - use of performance-based management techniques - business-like concern for the customer's interests - effective management
PAGE 61 OF 64

3.

4.

5.

6.

and selection of subcontractors - effective small/small disadvantaged business subcontracting program reasonable/cooperative behavior - effective use of technology in management and communication - flexible - minimal staff turnover - maintains high employee morale - resolves disagreements without being unnecessarily litigious. f. Customer Service - understands and embraces service and program goals - team approach with the customer satisfaction of end users with the contractor's service - positive customer feedback - prompt responses - courteous interactions - effective escalations and referrals initiative and proactive improvements - creative service strategies. Bonus Rating--Where the offeror has demonstrated an exceptional performance level in any of the above six subfactors, the contracting officer may give additional consideration for that factor. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances when contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance level of "excellent." Past performance evaluation will be based on information obtained from the awards and references listed in the offeror's proposal, other customers known to the Government, consumer protection organizations, and others who may have useful and relevant information. Information will also be considered regarding any major subcontractors, and key personnel records. The currency and relevance of the information, source of the information, context of the data, and general trends in contractor's performance will be considered. The contracting officer will give greater consideration to information about an offeror's past performance that the contracting officer considers either more reliable or more relevant to the effort required by this solicitation. Evaluation of past performance may be quite subjective,based on consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances.It will include consideration of the offeror's commitment to customer satisfaction and will include conclusions of informed judgement. An offeror will be given an opportunity to discuss adverse past performance information, if the offeror has not had a previous opportunity to comment on the information. The contracting officer may review recent contracts to ensure that corrective measures raised in discussions have been implemented.Prompt corrective action in an isolated instance might not outweigh an overall negative trend. If no relevant information on past performance is available for an offeror, the offeror will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably credit.

(C) Technical Evaluation Criteria: In accordance with the technical evaluation criteria, technical solutions that exceed any mandatory minimums will be given appropriate evaluation.

M. 3

Evaluation Criteria for Technical Proposal

PAGE 62 OF 64

Proposal Evaluation Review Criteria
A. Soundness of the Technical Proposal--40 Points  Demonstrated understanding of the purpose and context of the evaluation contract, the major issues and study objectives, and how they relate to each task.  Quality of the activities proposed to accomplish each task, including the clarity, feasibility, creativity and soundness of plans for carrying out each task, the identification of any design improvements, anticipated problems and recommended solutions.

B. Technical Qualifications of Proposed Staff--40 Points The following qualifications may be met by a team comprised of a Project Director, Co-Project Director, and/or Principal Investigator (20 points): 1) Experience, technical training and other qualifications that are appropriate for the task assignments; 2) Experience and skill in designing, and conducting rigorous quasi-experimental evaluations of education programs. 3) Experience and skill in complex survey sampling methodology in multi-level educational settings. 4) Experience and skill in conducting large scale, multi-site data collection in states, districts and schools. 5) Experience and skill in the use of data from various sources including EDFACTS, Common Core of Data, Teacher Compensation Survey, Survey of Local Government Finances, and other educational databases. 6) Substantive knowledge of relevant education issues, including those that examine the impacts of one-time stimulus funds on all levels of the education system. 7) Substantive knowledge of the ARRA education programs and grant requirements as well as the specific strategies that are promoted under them. Project Staff (20 points): 1) Experience, technical training and other qualifications that are appropriate for the task assignments; 2) Experience and skill in designing, and conducting rigorous quasi-experimental evaluations of education programs. 3) Experience and skill in complex survey sampling methodology in multi-level educational settings. 4) Experience and skill in conducting large scale, multi-site data collection in states, districts and schools.

PAGE 63 OF 64

5) Experience and skill in the use of data from various sources including EDFACTS, Common Core of Data, Teacher Compensation Survey, Survey of Local Government Finances, and other educational databases. 6) Substantive knowledge of relevant education issues, including those that examine the impacts of one-time stimulus funds on all levels of the education system. 7) Substantive knowledge of the ARRA education programs and grant requirements as well as the specific strategies that are promoted under them. C. Management of Tasks and Study Procedures--5 Points Procedures for performing tasks to meet RFP requirements in a cost-effective manner; procedures for controlling work performance, coordinating work of sub-contractors, and ensuring work quality and timeliness. D. Related Corporate Experience--15 Points 1) Evidence of prior successful corporate experience in designing and conducting complex and rigorous quasi-experimental evaluations of education programs; 2) Experience and skill in gathering and analyzing gathering and analyzing state, district and school level records data. 3) Experience and skill in administering large-scale, multi-site surveys to states, districts and schools and obtaining high response rates. E. Small Business Involvement--20 points In order to receive the extra 20 points, the Department expects prime large businesses that choose to subcontract to ensure that a minimum of 37.3% of total subcontract dollars go to small businesses. The Department encourages, the prime contractor to enter into firm fixed price contracts with subcontractors. One or more small businesses play a major role in the substantive work of the project such that the experience would enhance the capacity of the small business to conduct future technical work for IES TOTAL POINTS 120 Bonus Factor- 10 points Corporate Commitment to Small Business Contracting Offerors that are large businesses may submit information on their company's commitment to small business contracting. This information may include financial data showing a percentage of the company's contracts awarded to small businesses, information on the company's performance in partnering with small businesses, or other relevant information reflecting their commitment. This information should reflect the company's overall commitment, and should not be restricted to reflect only subcontracting goals developed for Government contracts. Large Business- no submission Large Business ­ Submission Small Business ­ Submission Neutral [0-10 points] [0-10 ponits]

PAGE 64 OF 64

