<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSOW.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSOW.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>Pharmacological Mechanism-Based Safety Prediction--Data Mining Tool Acquisition and Support Services
This is a solicitation for which the government intends to issue a purchase order in accordance with FAR Part 13 for the following, under simplified acquisition procedures. The request for proposal number is FDA-SOL-12-1103215. Provisions and clauses in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular 05-60 are incorporated into this request. It is the contractor's responsibility to be familiar with the applicable clauses and provisions. The provisions and clauses may be accessed in full text at www.acquisition.gov/far. Requirement The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires a data mining tool and support services for pharmacological mechanismbased safety prediction. The project background, objectives, scope, deliverables and specific tasks are detailed within the attached statement of work. Place of Performance The contractor shall perform the majority of the requirements of the contract offsite at the contractor's facility. Minimal travel will be required as described within the attached statement of work. Period of Performance/Basis Approxmate Period: 09/13/2012 - 09/12/2013 Proposal Instructions Offerors are required to submit their proposal in two separate volumes as follows: Volume I ­ Technical Volume II ­ Pricing Proposal The completion and submission of the above items will constitute an offer (proposal) and will indicate the offeror's unconditional assent to the terms and conditions of this RFP and any attachments hereto. Alternate proposals are not authorized. Objections to any terms and conditions of the RFP and statement of work will constitute deficiency, which may make the offer unacceptable. Volume I ­ Technical: This volume shall contain the technical approach. The offerors shall submit information which demonstrates that the technical solution proposed meets the requirements and tasks in the statement of work (SOW) attached to this solicitation. Please provide the following: This portion of the proposal is to include all data and information required for technical evaluation of the proposed solution, and exclude any reference to the pricing aspects of each offer. In this volume, the offeror should provide a narrative that fully explains the methodology and how services/deliverables will be rendered to the FDA. This narrative should fully address each of the topics in the statement of work and how the offeror will comply with FDA's requirements, including Section 508 requirements. If the offeror cannot provide any particular functionality described and/or listed in this requirement, this should be fully disclosed. FDA reserves the right to consult any applicable government past performance system (CPAR, PPIRS, etc.) to ascertain past performance on government contracts. Volume II ­ Pricing: This volume shall include the complete pricing based upon a firm fixed price-type contract. Provide an offer for the work to be performed under this requirement. If accepted, the total amount of offer will serve as the task order ceiling. The proposed amount shall be supported by a budget narrative and breakdown of the total amount by task activity; the labor categories utilized, estimated level of effort and proposed labor rates.

Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

1

If the offeror anticipates the need to purchase materials or travel during the performance of this task, please detail these anticipated costs in the offer. Additionally, include any assumptions made in the preparation of the offer. The offeror is requested to submit information to support consent to subcontract pursuant to FAR 44.202-2, if applicable, and shall address how it intends to ensure compliance with FAR 52.219-14, Limitation on Subcontracting. Evaluation Factors Technical FDA will evaluate base and option quotes received in response to this RFP on using the best value methodology. FDA will issue the order to the offeror whose proposed solution meets or exceeds all FDA technical requirements and offers the best value to the government. Total Price The contractor's ability to meet or exceed the technical requirements within the statement of work is more important than price. The government shall award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer represents the best value to the government. The government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions. The offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price standpoint. However, the government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer. The government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the best interest of the government; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. Applicable FAR Provisions and Clauses: 52.213-3 Notice to Supplier (Apr 1984) This is a firm order ONLY if your price does not exceed the maximum line item or total price in the Schedule. Submit invoices to the Contracting Officer. If you cannot perform in exact accordance with this order, Withhold Performance, and notify the Contracting Officer immediately, giving your quotation. (End of clause) 52.213-4 Terms and Conditions--Simplified Acquisitions (Other Than Commercial Items) (Mar 2012) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses that are incorporated by reference: (1) The clauses listed below implement provisions of law or Executive order: (i) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). (ii) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999) (E.O. 11246). (iii) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (iv) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (v) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.o.s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). (vi) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (vii) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (2) Listed below are additional clauses that apply:

Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

2

(i) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Feb 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (ii) 52.232-1, Payments (Apr 1984). (iii) 52.232-8, Discounts for Prompt Payment (Feb 2002). (iv) 52.232-11, Extras (Apr 1984). (v) 52.232-25, Prompt Payment (Oct 2008). (vi) 52.233-1, Disputes (July 2002). (vii) 52.244-6, Subcontracts for Commercial Items (Jan 2011). (viii) 52.253-1, Computer Generated Forms (Jan 1991). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the following FAR clauses, incorporated by reference, unless the circumstances do not apply: (1) The clauses listed below implement provisions of law or Executive order: (i) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Mar 2012) (E.O. 13126). (Applies to contracts for supplies exceeding the micro-purchase threshold.) (ii) 52.222-20, Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (Oct 2010) (41 U.S.C. 35-45) (Applies to supply contracts over $15,000 in the United States, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands). (iii) 52.222-35,Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212) (applies to contracts of $100,000 or more). (iv) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (Applies to contracts over $15,000, unless the work is to be performed outside the United States by employees recruited outside the United States.) (For purposes of this clause, United States includes the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Wake Island.) (v) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212) (applies to contracts of $100,000 or more). (vi) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (Applies to service contracts over $2,500 that are subject to the Service Contract Act and will be performed in the United States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Johnston Island, Wake Island, or the outer continental shelf lands.) (vii) 52.223-5, Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (MAY 2011) (E.O. 13423) (Applies to services performed on Federal facilities). (viii) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b) (Unless exempt pursuant to 23.204, applies to contracts when energy-consuming products listed in the ENERGY STARŽ Program or Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) will be-- (A) Delivered; (B) Acquired by the Contractor for use in performing services at a Federally-controlled facility; (C) Furnished by the Contractor for use by the Government; or (D) Specified in the design of a building or work, or incorporated during its construction, renovation, or maintenance.)
Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215 3

(ix) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d) (Applies to contracts for supplies, and to contracts for services involving the furnishing of supplies, for use in the United States or its outlying areas, if the value of the supply contract or supply portion of a service contract exceeds the micro-purchase threshold and the acquisition-- (A) Is set aside for small business concerns; or (B) Cannot be set aside for small business concerns (see 19.502-2), and does not exceed $25,000). (x) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003). (Applies when the payment will be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT) and the payment office uses the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database as its source of EFT information.) (xi) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (MAY 1999). (Applies when the payment will be made by EFT and the payment office does not use the CCR database as its source of EFT information.) (xii) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. App. 1241). (Applies to supplies transported by ocean vessels (except for the types of subcontracts listed at 47.504(d).) (2) Listed below are additional clauses that may apply: (i) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (ii) 52.211-17, Delivery of Excess Quantities (Sept 1989) (Applies to fixed-price supplies). (iii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247) (Applies to contracts greater than $25,000 that provide for the provision, the service, or the sale of food in the United States.) (iv) 52.247-29, F.o.b. Origin (Feb 2006) (Applies to supplies if delivery is f.o.b. origin). (v) 52.247-34, F.o.b. Destination (Nov 1991) (Applies to supplies if delivery is f.o.b. destination). (c) FAR 52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998). This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: www.acquisition.gov/far. (d) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall tender for acceptance only those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights-- (1) Within a reasonable period of time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (e) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence, such as acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (f) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice
Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215 4

of termination, plus reasonable charges that the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government, using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided. (g) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (h) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. 52.216-24 Limitation of Government Liability (Apr 1984) (a) In performing this contract, the Contractor is not authorized to make expenditures or incur obligations exceeding ____________________ dollars. (b) The maximum amount for which the Government shall be liable if this contract is terminated is ___________ dollars. (End of clause) Incorporated by Reference: 52.223-18 Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) 52.225-25 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Sanctioned Activities Relating to Iran--Representation and Certification (Nov 2011) 52.227-14 Rights in Data--General (Dec 2007) HHSAR Clauses applicable to this procurement: 352.224-70 Privacy Act (January 2006) This contract requires the Contractor to perform one or more of the following: (a) design; (b) develop; or (c) operate a federal agency system of records to accomplish an agency function in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Act) [5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)] and applicable agency regulations. The term ``system of records'' means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. Violations of the Act by the Contractor and/or its employees may result in the imposition of criminal penalties [5 U.S.C. 552a(i)]. The Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees knows the prescribed rules of conduct and that each employee is aware that he/she is subject to criminal penalties for violation of the Act to the same extent as Department of Health and Human Services employees. These provisions also apply to all subcontracts the Contractor awards under this contract which require the design, development or operation of the designated system(s) of records [5 U.S.C. 552a(m)(1)]. The contract work statement: (a) identifies the system(s) of records and the design, development, or operation work the Contractor is to perform; and (b) specifies the disposition to be made of such records upon completion of contract performance. (End of clause) 352.232-9 Withholding of Contract Payments (JAN 2006) Notwithstanding any other payment provisions of this contract, failure of the Contractor to submit required reports when due or failure to perform or deliver required work, supplies, or services, may result in the withholding of payments under this contract unless such failure arises out of causes beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as

Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

5

defined by the clause entitled ``Excusable Delays'' or ``Default'', as applicable. The Government shall immediately notify the Contractor of its intention to withhold payment of any invoice or voucher submitted. (End of Clause) 352.270-6 Publications and Publicity (JAN 2006) (a) Unless otherwise specified in this contract and the Confidentiality of Information clause is included, the Contractor is encouraged to publish the results of its work under this contract. A copy of each article submitted by the Contractor for publication shall be promptly sent to the Project Officer. The Contractor shall also inform the Project Officer when the article or other publication is published, and furnish a copy of it as finally published. (b) The Contractor shall include in any publication resulting from work performed under this contract a disclaimer reading as follows: ``The views expressed in written conference materials or publications and by speakers and moderators at HHS-sponsored conferences, do not necessarily reflect the official policies of the Department of Health and Human Services; nor does mention of trade names, commercial practices, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.'' (c) Unless authorized by the Project Officer, the contractor shall not display the HHS logo on any conference materials or publications. (End of Clause) 352.222-70 Contractor cooperation in equal employment opportunity investigations (January 2010) (a) In addition to complying with the clause in FAR 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, the Contractor shall, in good faith, cooperate with the Department of Health and Human Services (Agency) in investigations of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) complaints processed pursuant to 29 C.F.R. Part 1614. For purposes of this clause, the following definitions apply: (1) "Complaint" means a formal or informal complaint that has been lodged with Agency management, Agency EEO officials, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), or a court of competent jurisdiction. (2) "Contractor employee" means all current Contractor employees who work or worked under this contract. The term also includes current employees of subcontractors who work or worked under this contract. In the case of Contractor and subcontractor employees, who worked under this contract, but who are no longer employed by the Contractor or subcontractor, or who have been assigned to another entity within the Contractor's or subcontractor's organization, the Contractor shall provide the Agency with that employee's last known mailing address, e-mail address, and telephone number, if that employee has been identified as a witness in an EEO complaint or investigation. (3) "Good faith cooperation" cited in paragraph (a) includes, but is not limited to, making Contractor employees available for: (i) formal and informal interviews by EEO counselors or other Agency officials processing EEO complaints; (ii) formal or informal interviews by EEO investigators charged with investigating complaints of unlawful discrimination filed by federal employees; (iii) reviewing and signing appropriate affidavits or declarations summarizing statements provided by such Contractor employees during the course of EEO investigations; (iv) producing documents requested by EEO counselors, EEO investigators, Agency employees, or the EEOC in connection with a pending EEO complaint; and (v) preparing for and providing testimony in hearings before the EEOC and U.S. District Court. (b) The Contractor shall include the provisions of this clause in all subcontract solicitations and subcontracts awarded at any tier under this contract. (c) Failure on the part of the Contractor or its subcontractors to comply with the terms of this clause may be grounds for the Contracting Officer to terminate this contract for default. (End of clause) SECTION 508 REQUIREMENTS HHSAR 352.270­19 Electronic Information and Technology Accessibility (JAN 2006)

Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

6

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by Public Law 105­220 under Title IV (Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998) and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194), require that all EIT acquired must ensure that: (1) Federal employees with disabilities have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and (2) Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from an agency have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access to and use of information and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities. This requirement includes the development, procurement, maintenance, and/or use of EIT products/services; therefore, any proposal submitted in response to this solicitation must demonstrate compliance with the established EIT Accessibility Standards. Information about Section 508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The standards applicable to this acquisition are: Functional Performance Criteria

1194.21 Software applications and operating systems. (a) When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a keyboard where the function itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually. (b) Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified as accessibility features, where those features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable activated features of any operating system that are identified as accessibility features where the application programming interface for those accessibility features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer. (c) A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input focus changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that assistive technology can track focus and focus changes. (d) Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and state of the element shall be available to assistive technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text. (e) When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the meaning assigned to those images shall be consistent throughout an application's performance. (f) Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The minimum information that shall be made available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes. (g) Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes. (h) When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user. (i) Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. (j) When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a range of contrast levels shall be provided. (k) Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz. (l) When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.
Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215 7

§ 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. (a) A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content). (b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation. (c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup. (d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet. (e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map. (f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape. (g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables. (h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers. (i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation. (j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz. (k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes. (l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with functional text that can be read by assistive technology. (m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with §1194.21(a) through (l). (n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues. (o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links. (p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required. Note to §1194.22: 1. The Board interprets paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section as consistent with the following priority 1 Checkpoints of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG 1.0) (May 5, 1999) published by the Web Accessibility Initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium: Section 1194.22 Paragraph WCAG 1.0 Checkpoint (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

1.1 1.4 2.1 6.1 1.2
8

(f) (g) (h) (i) (j) (k)

9.1 5.1 5.2 12.1 7.1 11.4

2. Paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section are different from WCAG 1.0. Web pages that conform to WCAG 1.0, level A (i.e., all priority 1 checkpoints) must also meet paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section to comply with this section. WCAG 1.0 is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/WAI-WEBCONTENT-19990505. (End of provision) Invoicing instructions applicable to this procurement The Contractor shall submit one (1) original copy of each invoice to the address specified below: Office of Financial Services Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Ave WO32 - Second Floor MAIL HUB 2145 Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002 Attn: Vendor Payments 301.827.3742 or 866.807.3742 fdavendorpaymentsteam@fda.gov Invoices submitted under this contract must comply with the requirements set forth in FAR Clauses 52.232-25 (Prompt Payment) and 52.232-33 (Payment By Electronic Funds Transfer ­ Central Contractor Registration) and/or other applicable FAR clauses specified herein. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must be submitted on company letterhead and include each of the following: (I) (II) (III) (IV) (V) (VI) (VII) (VIII) (IX) (X) (XI) (XII) Name and Address of the Contractor; Invoice date and invoice number; Purchase order/award number; Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price supplies delivered or services performed, including: (a) period of performance for which costs are claimed; (b) Itemized travel costs, including origin and destination; and (c) Any other supporting information necessary to clarify questionable expenditures; Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on government bill of lading; Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the purchase order/award, or in a proper notice of assignment); Name, title and phone number of period to notify in event of defective invoice; Taxpayer identification number (TIN); Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information, including routing transit number of the financial institution receiving payment and the number of the account into which funds are to be deposited; Name and telephone number of the FDA Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or other program center/office point of contact, as referenced on the purchase order; and Any other information or documentation required by the purchase order/award.

An electronic invoice is acceptable if submitted in Adobe Acrobat (PDF) format. All items listed in (I) through (XII) of this clause must be included in the electronic invoice. Electronic invoices must be on company letterhead and must contain no ink changes and be legible for printing. Questions regarding invoice payments should be directed to the FDA Payment Office at a telephone number provided above. Other Administrative Instructions
Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215 9

Central Contractor Registration (CCR). In accordance with FAR 52.212-4, offeror's shall be registered in the CCR database to be considered for award. Registration is free and can be completed on-line at http://www.ccr.gov. The offeror must provide their DUNS, CAGE, and TIN numbers on the face page of each quote.

Solicitation Number: FDA-SOL-12-1103215

10

Statement of Work Pharmacological Mechanism-Based Safety Prediction--Data Mining Tool Acquisition and Support Services 1.0 Introduction 1.1 Background Quoting from the minutes of the February, 2010 meeting of the Science Board to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), "The Science Board suggested that Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) widen the prospective approaches to risk detection beyond pharmacoepidemiology, no matter how much that particular approach can be refined. . . In particular, pharmacoepidemiology can be expected to detect only the tip of the iceberg when seeking an increase in the incidence of common conditions. The need to integrate expertise in human and basic pharmacology is also evident in studies of comparative effectiveness, dominated so far by epidemiology and clinical trials uninformed by this discipline". 1.2 Objective This contract is meant to directly address this matter by supporting the development of a new safety program in the Office of Clinical Pharmacology (OCP)/Office of Translational Sciences (OTS)/CDER called "Pharmacological Mechanism-Based Drug Safety Prediction". 1.2.1 This contract shall provide the support in data-mining and pattern recognition technology to develop predictions for safety signals that have not yet been recognized for drug candidates that have come to the FDA as New Drug Applications (NDA). In addition, the data-mining and analytical technology shall be used to evaluate recognized safety signals for drugs already marketed to determine mechanism and to identify patient subgroups that may be particularly at risk for that safety signal. An important goal is to allow the development of prospective hypotheses to provide to Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology (OSE) and Office of New Drugs (OND) to inform their evaluation of potential safety signals with the goal of reducing time and effort spent on false positive signals. Analysis of confidential data submissions shall be done by staff in the OCP Safety Program with appropriate firewalls to the external data-mining technology.

1.2.2

1.2.3

1.3 Project Scope Independently and not as an agent of the Government the contractor/vendor shall furnish the necessary personnel, and services, except as provided in the schedule, and otherwise do all things necessary for the performance of the work as described below: 1.3.1 The contractor/vendor shall work with OCP to develop any necessary elements to permit access to their IT infrastructure currently in place that is required to carry out the safety predictions. Access to the contractor's/vendor's infrastructure will be from FDA systems. 1.3.1.1 Allow infrastructure access from four (4) individual OCP workstations. 1.3.2 Provide technical and analytical support as agreed upon in writing. 1.3.2.1 Provide ongoing technical support to facilitate data analysis and hypothesis generation. 1.3.1.3 Provide technical and analytical support to most effectively evaluate potential safety signals.

1.3.3 1.3.4

Provide one (1), one (1)-hour training session per month, to OCP safety program personnel on data entry and data search within the infrastructure. As agreed upon in writing, support the execution of at least ten (10), but no more than twelve (12) pilot safety prediction projects, utilizing the infrastructure.

2.0 Description of Work 2.1 Program Planning The contractor/vendor shall provide appropriately firewalled access to their internal IT infrastructure for FDA by directly working with FDA OCP. The contractor/vendor and OCP shall have an initial meeting to specify standard operating procedures for the work and define detailed time lines. 2.2 Project Management and Control The contractor/vendor shall provide written monthly status reports on training courses and be available to discuss with the FDA COR. The contractor/vendor shall provide ongoing infrastructure maintenance with a response time of no more than forty-eight (48) hours from the time of notification. 3.0 Task Deliverables Item #
1 Face-to-face kickoff meeting with designated OCP management to specify standard operating procedures for the work and define detailed time lines FDA shall review and approve in writing all procedures and timelines before work begins Work with OCP to develop any necessary elements to permit access to the IT infrastructure required to carry out the safety prediction Meetings shall be via conference call or web conference Allow infrastructure access from four (4) individual OCP workstations Begin providing ongoing technical support to facilitate data analysis and hypothesis generation Begin providing technical and analytical support to most effectively evaluate potential safety signals Provide one (1), one (1)-hour training session per month, to OCP safety program personnel on data entry and data search within the infrastructure. All training sessions will be conducted remotely via teleconference from the contractor's site Subsequent monthly training dates to be coordinated between the FDA COR and the contractor Support the execution of at least ten (10), but no more than twelve (12) pilot safety prediction projects

Deliverable

Within two (2) weeks after contract award

Date Due

2

November 1, 2012

3 4

December 1, 2012 December 6, 2012

5 6

December 6, 2012 January 6, 2013

7

January 10, 2013 through end of period of performance

Criteria for Acceptance The FDA COR shall review contractor deliverables in accordance with specifications and standards stated in the criteria established and any directives issued during the term of this contract. The FDA COR has the authority to accept or reject deliverables. The acceptance of deliverable and satisfactory work performance required herein shall be based upon the timeliness, accuracy and suitability of the deliverable. The specific deliverables and schedule for delivery shall be as agreed upon and documented. All deliverable documents, plans, diagrams, presentations, etc. are to be submitted electronically. Deliverables shall be submitted to the FDA COR. 4.0 Period of Performance September 14, 2012 through September 13, 2013 5.0 Travel The majority of the work will be performed by the contractor off-site, at the contractor's facilities. Some onsite travel will be required under this contract within the Washington D.C. metropolitan region. Onsite travel requirements are specified within the deliverables table above. 8.0 Security and Privacy Performance of work shall not require the contractor/vendor personnel to have access to and use of data and information which may be considered proprietary to regulated industry, a government agency or Government contractor/vendor, or which may otherwise be of such nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of a subsequent work statement, would be adverse to the interest of FDA or others. The contractor/vendor agrees that contractor/vendor personnel shall not divulge or release data or information discussed in connection with the performance of the resulting contract, unless made public by FDA, except to authorized FDA personnel or upon written approval of the COR. 9.0 Contractor/vendor Conformance with Applicable Laws, Regulations, Policies and Standards The Contractor/vendor shall be responsible for knowledge of and compliance with all applicable federal information technology and information management laws, regulations, policies and standards at the governmentwide, Health and Human Services (HHS) and FDA levels. At the government-wide level, these include Office of Management and Budget (OMB), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and General Accounting Office (GAO). These can be primarily found at or through the Federal CIO Council website at: http://www.cio.gov. HHS documents are found at: http://www.cdc.gov/irmo.

