
                                                            Draft Request for Proposal
                                                   DOTGOV Internet Domain Registration Service
                                              Statement of Objectives including Other Contract Terms

1. History and Background

The GSA-FAS Office of Infrastructure Optimization provides, as one of its business lines, a Registration Service for Federal, State and Local
Governments, and Native Sovereign Nations (NSNs).  Domain registrations (DOTGOV and .FED.US) were delegated to the GSA by the National Science
Foundation through consensus of the Federal Networking Counsel and Department of Commerce on October 1, 1997.  Registration requests are
serviced by way of web-enabled applications hosted at www.dotgov.gov.  Registrations are approved based on established criteria, detailed in
Federal Networking Council Request For Comments (RFC) 2146, May 1997 available at www.rfc-archive.org/getrfc.php?rfc=2146 and the “Final Rule” -
41 CFR Part §102-173 (available at www.dotgov.gov/final_rule_102.html).


2. General Contract Requirements

The General Services Administration (GSA), Federal Acquisition Service (FAS) is seeking a solution to perform all aspects of a Domain Name
Registration Service for Federal, State and Local Governments, and Native Sovereign Nations (NSNs) under the unique domain names of DOTGOV and
.FED.US.  This includes the maintenance of a secure Website for registration requests; the electronic processing
(acceptance/denial/modification) of those requests; an electronic payment processing mechanism for collection of customer fees and periodic
reporting to GSA, helpdesk support, Domain Name Service Security (DNSSEC); and a database capable of securely storing and managing the critical
data retrieved through the registration process.  The contractor shall also be responsible for the secure electronic propagation of credible
zone data to the authoritative DOTGOV top level domain name servers on a minimum twice daily basis, and provide help desk support for problem
resolution.  The contractor shall maintain a redundant failover/backup site.  In the event of a catastrophic failure or other service disruption
at the primary site, this site shall automatically continue all operations without interruption.

The contractor shall be responsible for all hardware, software, and ancillary equipment required to receive, process, and maintain the integrity
of the registration data and ensure system availability at all times (24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and holidays).  The FIPS 199 Security
Categorization of this system shall be at a High Impact Level.  A secondary backup site shall be established in the event of a catastrophic
failure or other service disruption to the primary site.  A greater than 99.9% software confidence factor is required.    All components of the
DOTGOV system, to include accounting/billing, customer support/trouble ticketing, reporting, helpdesk, DOTGOV TLD servers, etc. are within the
C&A boundaries and must be certified at FIPS 199 High.

The end-to-end system shall be sufficient to process the zone data file of approximately 5,000 active domain registrations and must be scalable
for an anticipated annual growth of approximately 15% annually (base and option years inclusive).  There is a possibility for annual growth that
exceeds the above, however, GSA gives no guarantees as to growth over the life of the contract.  The contractor is encouraged to independently
pursue additional DOTGOV accounts (particularly State and Local Government accounts), in order to grow the service (although GSA approval is
necessary before any new domain name is initiated).

The Government requires a seamless transition between the current contractor and the follow-on awardee to provide a fully functional domain
registration system.  The current DOTGOV contractor may remain operational with complete functionality and continuity of services until the
transition phase is completed.

It is the Government’s intent that operational costs for this service will be recovered through annual collection of fees from individual
Federal, State and Local Governments, and Native Sovereign Nations (NSNs) authorized to order initial domain name registrations and annual
renewals (the fee will be collected before an agency can access the Domain name).  Customer agencies are responsible for payment of fees, during
the approval process, to the contractor.  The contractor shall be responsible for collecting and retaining those fees.  There will be no cost or
administrative burden to GSA, conveyed in the form of invoices for payment, etc.

The contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that the system’s functional needs satisfies Federal security mandates for the processing of
sensitive but unclassified (SBU) information and protection of financial transaction data.  C&A support documentation shall be completed on
demand within each C&A segment as outlined in the deliverables section and/or C&A guidance and delivered to the COTR for review and forwarding
to the GSA Authorizing Official for the accreditation decision.  The contractor shall ensure that the documentation remains current throughout
the system life-cycle.  Recertification is required every three (3) years or any time that sufficient changes to the system’s software,
hardware, or firmware have occurred (as determined by the authorizing official).  The contractor must be fully capable to assume full
operational responsibility of the DOTGOV system, at both the primary and back-up server locations, as soon as the C&A derived Authority to
Operate (ATO) is secured.   In addition, the contractor shall comply with all the documents referenced in “GSA CIO IT Security 09-48 Security
Language for IT Acquisition Efforts,” as well as NIST 800-81 revision 1  (Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Deployment Guide).

GSA has determined that there exists in the commercial domain registration marketplace excess capacity for existing providers to process the
DOTGOV data, and GSA intends to use it.  If a potential offeror does not have a domain registration system operating, it may not be cost
effective for the contractor to build a system to meet this requirement.

A process flow diagram of the DOTGOV registration service entitled, “DOTGOV Process Flow” is provided (as Attachment 4) for clarity.  The GSA
Program Manager is responsible for issuing final DOTGOV domain registration approvals.

All critical functions (such as domain registrations) will be performed at the prime not at the sub-contractor level.  In addition, all DOTGOV
operations must be performed in the Continental U.S. only (CONUS).   This includes DNS nodes and the DNS distribution servers must be located
within CONUS.  Outside CONUS DNS distribution servers will not be allowed for DOTGOV.

Escalation procedures and Change Management/Change Control procedures must be clearly identified for this program.

The .FED.US domain names are grandfathered in and the DOTGOV system is responsible for maintaining these domain names, but no new registrations
are being accepted.



3. Tasks (Functionality)


  Task 1:  Website Management and Administration

  The Website (www.dotgov.gov) is the entry point for DOTGOV Internet domain management and registration services.  The contractor shall host
  the Website and provide the requisite network management services as appropriate for the level of mission criticality and information
  sensitivity.  The contractor shall also be proactive and make recommendations for improving the level of service and/or value to Government.


  At a minimum, the contractor shall perform the following work requirements:


      • Operation and maintenance of the http://www.dotgov.gov registration Website and supporting infrastructure. A redundant failover/backup
        site shall also be provided.  In the event of a catastrophic failure or other service disruption at the primary site, the failover/backup
        site shall continue all operations without interruption.

     •     Operation and maintenance of the WHOIS directory service.




  Task 2: DOTGOV Help Desk Support and Domain Management Services

  Currently the DOTGOV program (Government personnel) has staffed a help desk during normal working hours to respond to customer questions and
  comments.  In this re-compete, the help desk will be staffed at the contractor’s site 8 AM-6PM Eastern Time (and DST when applicable) by
  contractor personnel and on-call with qualified staff 24/7/365 days a year in the event there are emergency situations.  GSA/ITS may consider
  bringing the help desk back into the Government facility at some point in the future.


  DOTGOV help desk and domain management major duties - customer service, data entry and website navigation, DNSSEC, technical solution
  development, and records maintenance in support of the DOTGOV program.


   Help Desk:  The contractor shall provide the necessary support to assist in resolving customer issues.  The contractor will staff a live
            program help desk and provide customer service via a toll-free number and e-mail.  The contractor must initiate either a return
            phone call or an e-mail reply to the customer within two business hours of initial contact by the customer.  At present, an average
            of six hundred (600) helpdesk calls/emails are serviced each month and the customer database consists of approximately 13,000
            customers.   The contractor shall keep an electronic log of all calls/emails received by the DOTGOV helpdesk.


   Domain Management Services:  The contractor shall provide services including, but not limited to: 24/7/365 technical assistance to registered
                            points of contact, auditing and reporting, modifying, filing/archiving, and securely submitting the DOTGOV zone file
                            to the respective root-name-servers.  Data input by contractor shall be checked for validity to insure the correct
                            DOTGOV domain name is activated for the customer.

  The zone file updates shall be submitted at a minimum twice daily, to include all DNSSEC records.  The COTR may request an additional zone
  file update as a result of an emergent, high priority domain name request, which must be pushed out to the Internet upon notification by the
  Government.




  Task 3:  System Security

                                                        INFORMATION SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

    • The contractor shall be responsible for adhering to all National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications and
      Standards, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars & memorandums, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), and all
      revisions and updates thereof.

    • The contractor shall provide all Certification and Accreditation (C&A) support documentation to support the testing of the security
      controls of the system at the FIPS 199 High Impact level; as well as to ensure the system’s functional needs satisfies Federal security
      mandates for the processing of Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) and protection of sensitive data.

    • All medium and high findings/vulnerabilities shall be remediated prior to the Accreditation decision by the Authorizing Official.

    • The contractor shall ensure that the documentation remains current throughout the system life-cycle.  Re-certification is required every
      three (3) years or any time that sufficient changes to the system’s software, hardware, or firmware has occurred.

    • The contractor shall support the testing of the security controls in the system in accordance with the most current version of NIST 800-53
      (currently revision 3) and NIST 800-53A.

    • The contractor shall initiate work on this C&A requirement by meeting with key client agency representatives, to include the FAS C&A
      contractor, to ensure that a common understanding of the requirements, expectations, and ultimate end products exists between all parties.
      The FAS OCIO C&A contractor shall conduct all the security testing required for accreditation.

    • The contractor shall comply with all the requirements referenced in the GSA publication: “Security Language for IT Acquisition Efforts –
      CIO IT Security 09-48”,

    • The contractor shall provide personnel who have either a Limited Background Investigation (LBI) or a United States Secret clearance.

    • The contractor shall provide and support overall Infrastructure Security efforts which include all aspects of Technical, Operational, &
      Management Security.  This task requires the contractor to manage the current and future security efforts without compromising security.

    • The awarded contractor shall assist GSA in the compilation and documentation of the potential risks, and assist in the development of a
      Risk Management Plan.

    • This plan shall identify the potential risks and probability of occurrence consistent with the environment proposed.

    • All data shall be protected against unauthorized disclosure, modification, theft, and destruction in accordance with all applicable
      National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) guidelines, but in particular NIST 800-81 revision 1.

    • The contractor shall be responsible for providing documentation that demonstrates that the system has been certified to be in compliance
      with all federal regulations and guidance throughout the life of the contract. The contractor shall maintain the documentation and ensure
      that the documentation remains current throughout the system life-cycle.

    • All requisite C&A support documentation shall be completed on demand within the timeline of each C&A segment as outlined in the C&A
      deliverables list and delivered to the COTR for review and forwarding to the GSA Approving Authority (AO) for the accreditation decision.
      The contractor shall be responsible for correcting any identified security short-falls within the time specified by the FAS OCIO,
      Information Security Office.  The AO is the GSA-FAS Chief Information Officer (CIO).

    • The contractor shall be responsible for reporting cyber security incidents to the US –CERT, through the FAS OCIO Information Security
      Office

C&A DELIVERABLES:
In completing and documenting the various C&A-related tasks, the contractor shall be required to develop and maintain the following C&A required
documents in accordance with applicable National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) Special Publications and/or GSA guidelines:

1.  The System Security Plan shall be prepared in accordance with the most current version of NIST Special Publication 800-18, Guide for
Developing Security Plans for Information Technology Systems.  The SSP shall include as appendices:
  -- a completed GSA 800–53 Control Tailoring worksheet included in Appendix A of GSA Procedural Guide  - CIO IT Security 09-48 "Security
Language for IT Acquisition Efforts".  Column E of the worksheet titled “Contractor Implemented Settings” shall document all contractor
implemented settings that are different from the GSA defined setting and where the GSA defined setting allows a contractor determined setting).
  -- Required policies and procedures across 18 control families mandated per FIPS 200,
  -- Rules of Behavior,
  -- Interconnection Agreements (in accordance with NIST Special Publication 800–47),
  -- System architecture documentation,
  -- Network architecture diagram including IP addresses and subnets for individual devices,
  -- List of web applications and web services, including descriptions and corresponding URLs
  -- List of servers, including descriptions of the applications and information residing on each server
  -- List of database management systems (e.g. Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase) including descriptions.
  -- Vulnerability scanning practices
  -- Patch Management process

2.  Contingency Plan (including a Disaster Recovery Plan) – The contingency plan shall be prepared in accordance with NIST 800-34.

3.  Contingency Test, Test Plan, and Contingency Test Report shall be be prepared in accordance with the most current version of GSA CIO IT
Security Procedural Guide CIO-IT Security-06-29 (Contingency Plan Testing)

4.  Configuration Management Plan - The configuration Management Plan shall be prepared in accordance with the most current version of GSA CIO-
IT Security Procedural Guide:  01-05 (Developing a Configuration Management).

5.  List of names of employees and contractors who support the system or system data
      -- Type of Govt background investigation and date requested for each individual
      -- Documentation of status of background investigation for each individual
      -- Start date for each individual

6.  Business Impact Analysis – Identify key business processes affected by different levels of disaster or service interruption and impact these
services would have to GSA and its customers in the case of each scenario.

7.  Authentication Risk assessment

8.  Privacy Impact Assessment

9.  Business Continuity Plan – Identify key processes, personnel and relying systems that must be available in the case of a major disaster.
Provide planning and recommendations for continuing service.

10.  Plan of Actions & Milestones – Provide methodology for identifying, tracking and remediating POAMs.


            11.  Lessons Learned Report – This report shall contain any information including GSA’s methodology that could improve the process.




The contractor should provide in the proposal, at a minimum, plans, approximate timeframes and methodologies for accomplishing each of the
following milestones and components of a High Impact system.

      I. FIPS 199 High - [confidentiality, integrity, availability] at highest level of interoperable agency customer are the driver
         (multifactor authentication for access and changes)
     II. Continuous monitoring by contractor - at multiple levels (ie full packet capture, I/E points from the accreditation boundary of the
         system)
    III. Root cause evaluation capability within a few hours
     IV. Access granted for IV&V by customer
      V. Isolated and controlled environments
     VI. Publication controls and release controls limited to government approval only
 VII. Recategorization  of system based on FIPS 199 High Impact Level
VIII. Dedicated ISSO at contractor
  IX. Full and complete DNSSEC tested implementation
   X. CONUS deployment only
  XI. Automated logging - (ie NIST controls - CM family and AU Family)
 XII. Tiered admin override checks and balances
XIII. Automated process controls/not manual
 XIV. Software integrity controls and SCRM
  XV. Government owned system on dedicated hardware, software installation and in secured enclosure
 XVI. Full test suite capabilities
XVII. Regular reports on security spending to improve, maintain or modify the system
XVIII. 24/7 On Call technical support




  Task 4:  Integration, Implementation, and Management of the Fee Invoicing, Processing, and Collection Processes.

  The contractor shall provide a system for collecting fees for services. Activities include, but are not limited to: assessing fees from
  customer agencies; issuing notifications of delinquent accounts; resolving credit card disputes; and coordinating financial transactions.


  Collection of fees for domain registration applies only to new and annual renewals.  Note: The Contractor shall be responsible for management
  of the root DOTGOV domain and registration of 2nd level domains only (for example,  gsa.gov).  Fees must only be assessed on 2nd level
  domains; 3rd and 4th level domains and lower shall not incur fees. The contractor will collect the fee from the entities directly. Monies
  collected shall be recorded for review during government domain approval process, tracked and reported to the government quarterly (see
  “Quarterly Revenue Reports” and attachment 5). For reporting purposes, fees from entities of the federal government (legislative, executive
  and judicial, Native Sovereign Nations) will be flagged with a marker which is distinct from the non-federal entities (State and Local
  offices).  The contractor shall be responsible for collecting and processing fees for payment when registering a new domain name or renewing
  an existing domain name. Payments have typically been collected via credit card.


  The Per-Registration price shall comply with the designated authority Final Rule 41 CFR Part 102-173 Federal Management Regulations; Internet
  DOTGOV Domain as a rule and fee cap (for the base year and any option periods).


  The per-registration price proposed shall not exceed $125.00 (for the base year and any option periods).



  Task 5:  Contingency Planning Implementation and Testing

  The awarded contractor shall develop a Contingency Plan which documents the strategy and testing focusing on service restoration and data
  recovery in the event of unforeseen circumstances (See 7a - C&A Guidance).  The Contingency Plan shall be prepared in accordance with NIST 800-
  34 & GSA CIO-17 Security -06-29 (available from GSA-FAS-CIO via CD).  Identify frequency and type of testing to be provided.  For example,
  once a year a table top exercise will be conducted followed by a true system test six months later.






  Task 6:  Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC)

  The government’s preference is for any incoming contractor  to follow the current DNSSEC security measures solution for the DOTGOV Top Level
  Domain (TLD) system. Current DOTGOV DNSSEC implementation information is available at www.dotgov.gov under the DNSSEC tab. However, other
  solutions will be considered if they meet the DNSSEC standard, but any agencies current implementation should not be interrupted. There are
  approximately 400 agency domains which have implemented DNSSEC. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will be advising GSA concerning DNS
  Security on the DOTGOV Contract.


  Delegation holders may require limited technical assistance implementing DNSSEC in accordance with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
  policy.  The current OMB policy is found at:  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/assets/omb/memoranda/fy2008/m08-23.pdf.


  The DOTGOV Domain Name Registration Services shall include procedures for record signing and managing zone updates using a validated FIPS 140-
  3 level 3 solution to distribute and manage the DOTGOV DNSSEC key infrastructure to the DNS administrator.   The service should include, but
  not be limited to: key management system for the root DOTGOV domain, maintaining security delegation information for second level domains;
  automation distribution; support of incremental updates to the zone and an automated rollover management; acquire additional bandwidth to
  support zone clearing; and key archiving for the top-level DOTGOV domain (i.e. DOTGOV only and NOT the approximately 5,000 second-level DOTGOV
  domains). The service shall assist in maintaining the chain of trust by adding the ability to securely track and verify DOTGOV domains and to
  allow the domain administrator to upload secure delegation material (DNSKEY RRs) to their parent zone.  The automated support services should
  consist of: testing; reporting; signing; release management; and notifications of configuration errors and expired signatures.


  The contractor shall maintain and update the current written procedures and develop sample agency implementation requirements for posting on
  the DOTGOV Website www.dotgov.gov under the tab entitled DNSSEC implementation.  These written procedures must explain in detail the new
  DNSSEC implementation with detailed procedures on exactly what the current DOTGOV registrants must do in order to comply with the DNSSEC
  implementation.

  The DNSSEC solution was implemented by GSA in the DOTGOV top-level domain in February 2009. The contractor shall provide automated and manual
  technical support services to Federal Agencies, State, County, Local and NSN Government Technical IT Staff to implement the DNSSEC Secure
  Naming Infrastructure for second level DOTGOV domains.  The support will be provided under the same time frame perimeters as Task 2 above.
  This will provide support for end user rollouts, upgrades, troubleshooting, and configuration with Federal, State, Local and NSN technical IT
  staff implementing the U.S. Government Secure Naming Infrastructure policies and procedures.  The manual technical support services should
  consist of telephone support, signed name server configuration testing, troubleshooting, and rollout support as requested by end users through
  the GSA DOTGOV Helpdesk.


The DNSSEC service must adhere to the guidance and/or standards outlined in the following publications:

National Institutes of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Special Publication 800-53 revision 3, and 800-81 revision 1
(http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html)

NIST Special Publication 800-57 (parts 1, 2 and 3), Recommendation for Key Management – Part 1 : General, Part 2: Best Practices for Key
Management Organization, and Part 3, Application-Specific Key Management Guidance (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html)


RFC 4033 R. Arends, R. Austein, M. Larson, D. Massey, S. Rose. DNS Security Introduction and Requirements. October 10, 2004.
(http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4033.txt)

RFC 4034 R. Arends, R. Austein, M. Larson, D. Massey, S. Rose. Resource Records for the DNS Security Extensions. March, 2005.
(http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4034.txt ).

RFC 4045 R. Arends, R. Austein, M. Larson, D. Massey, S. Rose. Protocol Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions . March, 2005.
(http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4045.txt)

In addition, the contractor shall implement a DNSSEC deployment solution that:

     Supports RFC5155 (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5155.txt).

     Supports RFC5011 for trust anchor rollover procedures (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5011.txt).

     Supports interoperability testing for DNSSEC-aware recursive and stub resolver.

     Supports existing encryption algorithms and migration to newly specified algorithms.

     Supports DNSSEC-aware Utilities.

     Complies with FIPS 140-3 level 3 (www.csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsFIPS.html).

     Supports IPv6 (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2460.txt).

     Ensures interoperability with IETF specified Internet protocols

     Supports Dynamic DNS updates that complies with NIST Special Publication 800-81 revision 1.






4. Type and Term of Contract

The term of the contract is a base period of one (1) year with four (4) one year options.

The government intends to make award under this solicitation in first quarter FY2011.

The General Services Administration anticipates awarding a Firm Fixed Price contract (per registration fee and transition cost, see attachment 2
Page 4) for providing the DOTGOV domain registrations and renewals.




5. Migration/Transition Of Operations For The New DOTGOV System

     The Contractor shall, prior to the operational start date, work with the incumbent Contractor to ensure continuity of services and to
     provide system migration/transition services in order to meet the imposed operational start date.  System transition from the current DOTGOV
     system to the Contractor’s DOTGOV system shall be provided in accordance with the Contractor’s approved Transition Plan.

6. Deliverables, Reports, Acceptance and Points of Contact

Deliverables/Due Dates

|Deliverable                                       |Delivery Due Dates (On or Before)                                              |
|DOTGOV Transition Plan                            |Due with offer submission                                                      |
|Preaward C&A Plan                                 |Due with offer submission                                                      |
|System Security Plan                              |-Initial - 30 days after award                                                 |
|                                                  |-Revision - 60 calendar days after award                                       |
|                                                  |-Final - 120 calendar days after award                                         |
|                                                  |-Updated annually or as system/environmental changes occur                     |
|Security Test and Evaluation Plan                 |-Initial - 30 days after award                                                 |
|                                                  |-Revision - 60 calendar days after award                                       |
|                                                  |-Final - 120 calendar days after award                                         |
|                                                  |-Updated annually                                                              |
|Contingency Plan, Contingency Plan Test, and Test |-Initial - 30 days after award                                                 |
|Report                                            |-Revision - 60 calendar days after award                                       |
|                                                  |-Final - 120 calendar days after award                                         |
|                                                  |-Updated annually                                                              |
|Configuration Management Plan                     |-Initial - 30 days after award                                                 |
|                                                  |-Revision - 60 calendar days after award                                       |
|                                                  |-Final - 120 calendar days after award                                         |
|                                                  |-Updated annually                                                              |
|Lessons Learned Report (LLR)                      |LLR for Transition - 120 calendar days after award LLR for System Operations - |
|                                                  |annually                                                                       |
|Security Test/Scanning Report                     |Due in accordance with the dates in the GSA IT Security Program Management     |
|                                                  |Implementation Plan                                                            |
|Authority to Operate/Letter of Approval           |Due NLT 120 calendar days after submission of C&A documentation                |
|(granted by the CIO Office after successful C&A   |                                                                               |
|completion by the awardee)                        |                                                                               |
|Quarterly POA&M Reports and submissions           |Due in accordance with the dates in the GSA IT Security Program Management     |
|                                                  |Implementation Plan                                                            |
|Any other reports/documents                       |As directed or as prescribed in the GSA IT Security Program Management         |
|                                                  |Implementation Plan                                                            |
|Annual FISMA Assessments                          |As prescribed in the GSA IT Security Program Management Implementation Plan    |
|DOTGOV In-Progress Review                         |Quarterly                                                                      |

After contract award, each deliverable, with the exception of the DOTGOV Transition Plan and the preaward C&A Plan, shall first be submitted in
a draft format for review and approval by the COTR.  Upon approval by the COTR of the draft document, the contractor shall incorporate any
comments and resubmit it within five (5) business days as a final document which shall be delivered in final form.  For each deliverable (draft
or final), the contractor shall provide one (1) electronic version of the deliverable to the COTR.  All deliverables shall be compatible with
one of the following:  Microsoft Office Word, PowerPoint, Visio and/or Excel.

The COTR reserves the right to accept/reject the deliverables.  The COTR also has the right to reject or require correction of any deficiency(s)
found in any deliverable that is contrary to the information contained in this Statement of Objectives (SOO).  If a deliverable is rejected by
the COTR, the contractor will be notified in writing by the COTR as to the specific reason(s) why the deliverable is being rejected.
Deficiencies of a minor technical nature will be evaluated by the COTR to determine their significance, and the appropriate course of action to
take in the circumstances. In cases other than minor technical problems the contractor shall make the appropriate corrections within 10 days of
notification.

Access Rights

The Contractor shall make books, materials, or other records available to the Government on a 24-48 hours notice, to enable verifying of domain
registration sales under this contract.  Facilitation shall apply to the GSA Supplier Management Division (QV0C) office, as well as any agency
who has procured services under this contract.  Access is anticipated on at least an annual basis by GSA Supplier Management Division (QV0C).

GSA Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO)

The GSA PCO has overall responsibility for administering the contract. All contract administration shall be performed by the GSA PCO:

Mr. Ben A. Reed
Phone: (703) 306-6626
E-mail: ben.reed@gsa.gov


GSA Program Manager

The GSA Program Manager provides central technical oversight, and management (and final domain registration approvals) regarding this contract
to the contractor, GSA, and agency customers.  The name and address of the GSA Program Manager is:

To Be Determined

Quarterly Revenue Reports - As a requirement under this contract, the contractor shall submit a Quarterly Revenue Report.  This report shall be
submitted to the COTR by the 15th of the month following the last business day of the quarter. (See Attachment 5 for format)

Special Reports -  The COTR may request a special report on DOTGOV data and/or activities such as, but not limited to:  database queries
relating to how many total domains are supported by the system; how many domains does a particular agency or state/county/local or NSN
government have; how many approved domain names are there in the database or for a particular agency or state/county/local or NSN government; or
to back-up or recover a record or records that was inadvertently deleted.

Briefings - Upon request, the contractor shall prepare and present briefings to the GSA-FAS DOTGOV Program Management including the COTR and/or
CO.  The Department of Homeland Security, (DHS) may attend the briefings.  Details of this briefing shall be on the results of efforts
undertaken under this contract.  In addition, the contractor shall provide a quarterly formal program review briefing, known as the DOTGOV In-
Progress Review (IPR) which will include pertinent performance statistics and DNSSEC activity.

Meetings - The contractor shall attend meetings and briefings with Government/Non-Government entities as requested by the Government.  Generally
all meetings and briefings will be conducted at the DOTGOV Program Office located in Fairfax, VA, but the Government may stipulate other meeting
and briefing locations, or may request teleconferences as appropriate.


7a. Technical Specifications

Exclusive Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Guidance

This document describes the Information Technology (IT) systems security support services required by the Office of the Chief Information
Officer (CIO) and Office of Integrated Technology Services within the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Acquisition Service
(FAS).  The contractor shall comply with all the requirements of the document titled “Security Language for IT Acquisition Efforts – CIO IT
Security 09-48,” to include all referenced documents.

BACKGROUND AND METHODOLOGY:

ITS is responsible for managing the IT systems security management of the DOTGOV System.  The Statement of Objectives details the components and
specific requirements of the DOTGOV system.

            This C&A guidance describes the professional IT system security technical support services to be completed by the awarded contractor
            for the DOTGOV system.


            Since this system is a Major Information System categorized at a FIPS 199 High Impact, a Security Test & Evaluation (also known as a
            Security Assessment) will be required as part of the C&A process
The Government requires that the various C&A tasks be performed as part of three key processes: Certification Preparation; Certification; and
Accreditation.
The completion of the above C&A-related activities will help ensure that appropriate combinations of security measures are identified and
implemented to counter relevant threats and vulnerabilities to the DOTGOV system.  More specifically, the government’s expectation is that the
completion of the above tasks will:

    • Validate the security requirements established for the DOTGOV system
    • Examine system safeguards and controls to assess their adequacy
    • Support management approval to authorize continued operation of the DOTGOV system




            All Certification tasks to be performed by the contractor shall be consistent with GSA guidelines pertaining to certification
            activities and related documentation.

            All Accreditation tasks to be performed by the contractor shall be consistent with GSA guidelines pertaining to accreditation
            activities and related documentation.

The completion/approval of the C&A derived Authority to Operate shall be on or before 120 days following the submission of initial draft
documentation.  The initial draft documentation shall be submitted not later than 30 calendar days after date of award.

The contractor shall support the testing of the security controls in the system in accordance with the most current version of NIST 800-53
(currently revision 3). In addition, The contractor will need to be prepared for penetration testing, the time of which they may not be informed
about.  The contractor shall include their Primary and backup/failover sites as both will be reviewed and tested. FAS OCIO will schedule the C&A
kick-off meeting when the C&A documentation is received.

Contractors entering into an agreement for services to the General Services Administration (GSA) and/or its Federal customers shall be
contractually subject to all GSA and Federal IT Security standards, policies, and reporting requirements.  The contractor shall meet and comply
with all GSA IT Security Policies and all applicable GSA and NIST standards and guidelines, other Government-wide laws and regulations for
protection and security of Information Technology.

All GSA contractors must comply with the GSA policies below (these documents are all referenced within the GSA IT Security Policy).
    • GSA Information Technology (IT) Security Policy, CIO P 2100.1E.

    • GSA Order CIO P 2181.1 “GSA HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification and Credentialing Handbook”, dated October 20, 2008.

    • GSA Order CIO 2104.1, “GSA Information Technology (IT) General Rules of Behavior”, dated July 3, 2003.

    • GSA Order CPO 1878.1, “GSA Privacy Act Program”, dated October 27, 2003.

    • GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 04-26, “FISMA Implementation”.”

    • GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-29, “Contingency Plan Testing”.”

    • GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-30, “Managing Enterprise Risk.”

    • GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 08-39, “FY 2009 IT Security Program Management Implementation Plan.”

    • GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 09-44, “Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M).”



    • Contractors are also required to comply with Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), the “Special Publications 800 series”
      guidelines published by NIST, and the requirements of FISMA.



    • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002.

    • Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 also known as the “Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996.”

    • Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a).

    • Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD-12), “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors”,
      August 27, 2004.

    • Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, “Management of Federal Information Resources”, and Appendix III, “Security of Federal
      Automated Information Systems”, as amended.

    • OMB Memorandum M-04-04, “E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies.”

    • FIPS PUB 199, “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems.”

    • FIPS PUB 200, “Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems.”

    • FIPS PUB 140-2, “Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-18 Rev 1, “Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-30, “Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Security Risk Assessment Procedures for Information
      Technology Systems.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-34, “Contingency Planning Guide for Information Technology Systems.”

    • NIST SP 800-37, Revision 1, “Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-47, “Security Guide for Interconnecting Information Technology Systems.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-53 Revision 3, “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems.”

    • NIST Special Publication 800-53A, “Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems.”





   2 GSA Security Compliance Requirements

FIPS 200, “Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems”, is a mandatory federal standard that defines the
minimum security requirements for federal information and information systems in seventeen security-related areas.  Contractor systems
supporting GSA must meet the minimum security requirements through the use of the security controls in accordance with NIST Special Publication
800-53, Revision 3 (hereafter described as NIST 800-53), and “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems.

To comply with the federal standard, GSA must determine the security category of the information and information system in accordance with FIPS
199, “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems”, and then the contractor shall apply the
appropriately tailored set of Low, Moderate, or High impact baseline security controls in NIST 800-53, as determined by GSA.  It has been
determined that this system will be a High Impact system.
NIST 800-53 controls requiring organization-defined parameters (i.e., password change frequency) shall be consistent with GSA specifications.
The GSA-specified control parameters and supplemental guidance defining more specifically the requirements per FIPS 199 impact level are
provided in Appendix A, of this document.

The Contractor shall use GSA technical guidelines, NIST guidelines, Center for Internet Security (CIS) guidelines (Level 1), or industry best
practice guidelines in hardening their systems, as deemed appropriate by the Authorizing Official.


3 Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Activities

The implementation of a new Federal Government IT system requires a formal approval process known as Certification and Accreditation (C&A).
NIST Special Publication 800-37, Revision 1 (hereafter described as NIST 800-37) and GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-30, “Managing
Enterprise Risk”, give guidelines for performing the C&A process.  The Contractor system/application must have a valid certification and
accreditation (signed off by the Federal government) before going into operation and processing GSA information.  The failure to obtain and
maintain a valid certification and accreditation will be grounds for termination of the contract.  The system must have a new C&A conducted (and
signed off on by the Federal government) at least every three (3) years or at the discretion of the Authorizing Official when there is a
significant change to the system’s security posture.   All NIST 800-53 controls must be tested/assessed no less than every 3 years.


Certification of System


   1. The Contractor shall comply with Certification and Accreditation (C&A) requirements as mandated by Federal laws and policies, including
      making available any documentation, physical access, and logical access needed to support this requirement.  The Level of Effort for the
      C&A is based on the System’s NIST Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 199 categorization.  The contractor shall
      create, maintain and update the following C&A documentation:

         • System Security Plan (SSP) completed in agreement with NIST Special Publication 800-18, Revision 1. The SSP shall include as
           appendices required policies and procedures across 18 control families mandated per FIPS 200, Rules of Behavior, and Interconnection
           Agreements (in agreement with NIST Special Publication 800-47).  The SSP shall include as an appendix, a completed GSA 800-53 Control
           Tailoring worksheet included in Appendix A of this guide.  Column E of the worksheet titled “Contractor Implemented Settings” shall
           document all contractor implemented settings that are different from the GSA defined setting and where the GSA defined setting allows
           a contractor determined setting).

         • Contingency Plan (including Disaster Recovery Plan) completed in agreement with NIST Special Publication 800-34.

         • Contingency Plan Test Report completed in agreement with GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-29, “Contingency Plan Testing.”

         • Plan of Actions & Milestones completed in agreement with GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 09-44, “Plan of Action and Milestones
           (POA&M).”

         • Independent Penetration Test Report documenting the results of vulnerability analysis and exploitability of identified
           vulnerabilities.

In addition to the above documentation, GSA recommends (not a requirement) the contractor employ code analysis tools to examine the software for
common flaws and document results in a Code Review Report.  The Code Review Report should be submitted as part of the C&A package.  Reference
NIST 800-53 control SA-11, Enhancement 1 for additional details.

   2. Information systems must be certified and accredited at least every three (3) years or whenever there is a significant change to the
      system’s security posture in accordance with NIST Special Publication 800-37 Revision 1, “Guide for the Security Certification and
      Accreditation of Federal Information Systems”, and CIO IT Security 06-30, “Managing Enterprise Risk .”

   3. At the Moderate impact level and higher, the contractor or Government (as determined in the contract) will be responsible for providing an
      independent Security Assessment/Risk Assessment in accordance with GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-30, “Managing Enterprise Risk.”
   4. If the Government is responsible for providing a Security Assessment/Risk Assessment and Penetration Test, the Contractor shall allow GSA
      employees (or GSA designated third party contractors) to conduct certification and accreditation (C&A) activities to include control
      reviews in accordance with NIST 800-53/NIST 800-53A and GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-30, “Managing Enterprise Risk”.  Review
      activities include but are not limited to operating system vulnerability scanning, web application scanning, and database scanning of
      applicable systems that support the processing, transportation, storage, or security of GSA information.  This includes the general support
      system infrastructure.
   5. Identified gaps between required 800-53 controls and the contractor’s implementation as documented in the Security Assessment/Risk
      Assessment report shall be tracked for mitigation in a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) document completed in accordance with GSA IT
      Security Procedural Guide 09-44, “Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M).”  Depending on the severity of the gaps, the Government may
      require them to be remediated before an Authorization To Operate is issued.
   6. The Contractor is responsible for mitigating all security risks found during C&A and continuous monitoring activities.  All high-risk
      vulnerabilities must be mitigated within 30 days and all moderate risk vulnerabilities must be mitigated within 90 days from the date
      vulnerabilities are formally identified.  The Government will determine the risk rating of vulnerabilities.


Accreditation of System

   1. Upon receipt of the documentation (Certification Package) described in GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-30, “Managing Enterprise Risk”
      and NIST Special Publication 800-37 as documented above, the GSA Authorizing Official (AO) for the system (in coordination with the GSA
      Senior Agency Information Security Officer (SAISO), system Program Manager, Information System Security Manager (ISSM), and Information
      System Security Officer (ISSO)) will render an accreditation decision to:
         o Authorize system operation w/out any restrictions or limitations on it operation;
         o Authorize system operation w/ restriction or limitation on its operation, or;
         o Not authorize for operation.

   2. The Contractor shall provide access to the Federal Government, or their designee acting as their agent, when requested, in order to verify
      compliance with the requirements for an Information Technology security program.  At its option, the Government may choose to conduct on
      site surveys.  The Contractor shall make appropriate personnel available for interviews and documentation during this review.  If
      documentation is considered proprietary or sensitive, these documents may be reviewed on-site under the hosting Contractor’s supervision.


4 Reporting and Continuous Monitoring

Maintenance of the security authorization to operate will be through continuous monitoring of security controls of the contractors system and
its environment of operation to determine if the security controls in the information system continue to be effective over time in light of
changes that occur in the system and environment.  Through continuous monitoring, security controls and supporting deliverables are updated and
submitted to GSA per the schedules below.  The submitted deliverables (or lack thereof) provide a current understanding of the security state
and risk posture of the information systems.  They allow GSA authorizing officials to make credible risk-based decisions regarding the continued
operations of the information systems and initiate appropriate responses as needed when changes occur.


Deliverables to be provided to the GSA COTR/ISSO/ISSM Quarterly

     1. Plan of Action & Milestones  (POA&M) Update

Reference: NIST 800-53 control CA-5

Contractor shall provide POA&M updates in accordance with requirements and the schedule set forth in GSA CIO IT Security Procedural Guide 09-44,
“Plan of Action and Milestones.”



     2. Vulnerability Scanning

Reference: NIST 800-53 control RA-5

Contractor shall provide vulnerability scan reports from Web Application, Database, and Operating System Scans.  Scan results shall be managed
and mitigated in Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) and submitted together with the quarterly POA&M submission.


Deliverables to be provided to the GSA COTR/ISSO/ISSM Annually

     1. Updated  C&A documentation including the System Security Plan and Contingency Plan

   i. System Security Plan
      Reference: NIST 800-53 control PL-2
      Contractor shall review and update the System Security Plan annually to ensure the plan is current and accurately described implemented
      system controls and reflects changes to the contractor system and its environment of operation. The System Security Plan must be in
      accordance with NIST 800-18, Revision 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans.

  ii. Contingency Plan

      Reference: NIST 800-53 control CP-2
      Contractor shall provide an annual update to the contingency plan completed in accordance with NIST 800-34, Contingency Planning Guide.

     2. User Certification/Authorization Review Documents
Reference: NIST 800-53 control AC-2
Contractor shall provide the results of the annual review and validation of system users’ accounts to ensure the continued need for system
access.  The user certification and authorization documents will illustrate the organization establishes, activates, modifies, reviews,
disables, and removes information system accounts in accordance with documented account management procedures.

     3. Separation of Duties Matrix
Reference: NIST 800-53 control AC-5
Contractor shall develop and furnish a separation of duties matrix reflecting proper segregation of duties for IT system maintenance,
management, and development processes.  The separation of duties matrix will be updated or reviewed on an annual basis.

     4. Information Security Awareness and Training Records
Reference: NIST 800-53 control AT-4
Contractor shall provide the results of security awareness (AT-2) and role-based information security technical training (AT-3).  AT-2 requires
basic security awareness training for employees and contractors that support the operation of the contractor system.  AT-3 requires information
security technical training to information system security roles.  Training shall be consistent with the requirements contained in C.F.R. Part 5
Subpart C (5 C.F.R 930.301) and conducted at least annually.

     5. Annual FISMA Assessment
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CA-2
Contractor shall deliver the results of the annual FISMA assessment conducted per GSA CIO IT Security Procedural Guide 04-26, “FISMA
Implementation”.  The assessment is completed using the GSA on-line assessment tool.

     6. System(s) Baseline Configuration Standard Document
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CM-2
Contractor shall provide a well defined, documented, and up-to-date specification to which the information system is built.

     7. System Configuration Settings
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CM-6
Contractor shall establish and document mandatory configuration settings for information technology products employed within the information
system that reflect the most restrictive mode consistent with operational requirements.
Configuration settings are the configurable security-related parameters of information technology products that compose the information system.
Systems should be configured in agreement with GSA technical guidelines, NIST guidelines, Center for Internet Security guidelines (Level 1), or
industry best practice guidelines in hardening their systems, as deemed appropriate by the Authorizing Official.  System configuration settings
will be updated or reviewed on an annual basis.

     8. Configuration Management Plan
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CM-9
Contractor shall provide an annual update to the Configuration Management Plan for the information system.

     9. Contingency Plan Test Report
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CP-4
Contractor shall provide a contingency plan test report completed in accordance with GSA IT Security Procedural Guide 06-29, “Contingency Plan
Testing.”  A continuity test shall be conducted annually prior to mid-July of each year. The continuity test can be a table top test while the
system is at the “Low Impact” level.  The table top test must include Federal and hosting Contractor representatives.  Moderate and High impact
systems must complete a functional exercise at least once every three years.

    10. Incident Response Test Report
Reference: NIST 800-53 control IR-3
Contractor shall provide an incident response plan test report documenting results of incident reporting process per GSA IT Security Procedural
Guide 01-02, “Incident Handling.”

    11. Results of Physical Security User Certification/Authorization Review
Reference: NIST 800-53 control PE-2
Contractor shall provide the results of annual reviews and validations of physical access authorizations to facilities supporting the contractor
system to ensure the continued need for physical access.

    12. Results of Review of Physical Access Records
Reference: NIST 800-53 control PE-8
Contractor shall provide the results of annual reviews and validations of visitor access records to ensure the accuracy and fidelity of
collected data.

    13. Information System Interconnection Agreements
Reference: NIST 800-53 control CA-3
The contractor shall provide updated Interconnection Security Agreements (ISA) and supporting Memorandum of Agreement/Understanding (MOA/U),
completed in accordance with NIST 800-47, “Security Guide for Connecting Information Technology Systems”, for existing and new interconnections.
 Per NIST 800-47, an interconnection is the direct connection of two or more IT systems for the purpose of sharing data and other information
resources through a pipe, such as ISDN, T1, T3, DS3, VPN, etc.  Interconnections agreements shall be submitted as appendices to the System
Security Plan.

    14. Rules of Behavior
Reference: NIST 800-53 control PL-4
Contractor shall define and establish Rules of Behavior for information system users.  Rules of Behavior shall be submitted as an appendix to
the System Security Plan.

    15. Personnel Screening and Security
Reference: NIST 800-53 control PS-3, NIST 800-53 control PS-7
Contractor shall furnish documentation reflecting favorable adjudication of background investigations for all personnel (including
subcontractors) supporting the system.  Contractors shall comply with GSA order 2100.1 – IT Security Policy and GSA Order CIO P 2181 – HSPD-12
Personal Identity Verification and Credentialing Handbook.  GSA separates the risk levels for personnel working on Federal computer systems into
three categories:  Low Risk, Moderate Risk, and High Risk.

    • Those contract personnel (hereafter known as “Applicant”) determined to be in a Low Risk position will require a National Agency Check with
      Written Inquiries (NACI) investigation.

    • Those Applicants determined to be in a Moderate Risk position will require either a Limited Background Investigation (LBI) or a Minimum
      Background Investigation (MBI) based on the Contracting Officer’s (CO) determination.

    • Those Applicants determined to be in a High Risk position will require a Background Investigation (BI).

The Contracting Officer, through the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative or Program Manager will ensure that a completed Contractor
Information Worksheet (CIW) for each Applicant is forwarded to the Federal Protective Service (FPS) in accordance with the GSA/FPS Contractor
Suitability and Adjudication Program Implementation Plan dated 20 February 2007.  FPS will then contact each Applicant with instructions for
completing required forms and releases for the particular type of personnel investigation requested.

Applicants will not be reinvestigated if a prior favorable adjudication is on file with FPS or GSA, there has been less than a one year break in
service, and the position is identified at the same or lower risk level.

Once a favorable FBI Criminal History Check (Fingerprint Check) has been returned, Applicants may receive a GSA identity credential (if
required) and initial access to GSA information systems.  The HSPD-12 Handbook contains procedures for obtaining identity credentials and access
to GSA information systems as well as procedures to be followed in case of unfavorable adjudications.


Deliverables to be provided to the GSA COTR/ISSO/ISSM Biennially

     1. Policies and Procedures
Contractor shall develop and maintain current the following policies and procedures:

   i. Access Control Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 AC-1)
  ii. Security Awareness and Training Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 AT-1)
 iii. Audit and Accountability Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 AU-1)
  iv. Identification and Authentication Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 IA-1)
   v. Incident Response Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 IR-1, reporting timeframes are documented in GSA CIO IT Security Procedural Guide 01-
      02, Incident Handling
  vi. System Maintenance Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 MA-1)
 vii. Media Protection Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 MP-1)
viii. Physical and Environmental Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 PE-1)
  ix. Personnel Security Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 PS-1)
   x. System and Information Integrity Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 SI-1)
  xi. System and Communication Protection Policy and Procedures (NIST 800-53 SC-1)
 xii. Key Management Policy (NIST 800-53 SC-12)


5 Additional Stipulations (as applicable)

      1. The deliverables identified in section 1.4 shall be labeled “CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION” (CUI) or contractor selected
         designation per document sensitivity.  External transmission/dissemination of FOUO and CUI to or from a GSA computer must be encrypted.
          Certified encryption modules must be used in accordance with FIPS PUB 140-2, “Security requirements for Cryptographic Modules.”

      2. Federal Desktop Core Configuration
The Contractor shall certify applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core
Configuration (FDCC). This includes Internet Explorer 7 configured to operate on Windows. The standard installation, operation, maintenance,
update, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved FDCC configuration. The information technology
should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default “program files” directory and should be able to silently install
and uninstall.  Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration
privileges.  The contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to certify their
products operate correctly with FDCC configurations and do not alter FDCC settings.

      3. As prescribed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 24.104, if the system involves the design, development, or operation
         of a system of records on individuals, the contractor shall implement requirements in FAR clause 52.224-1, “Privacy Act Notification”
         and FAR clause 52.224-2, “Privacy Act.”

      4. The Contractor shall cooperate in good faith in defining non-disclosure agreements that other third parties must sign when acting as
         the Federal government’s agent.

      5. The Government has the right to perform manual or automated audits, scans, reviews, or other inspections of the vendor’s IT environment
         being used to provide or facilitate services for the Government.  In accordance with the Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) clause
         52.239-1, the Contractor shall be responsible for the following privacy and security safeguards:

   i. The Contractor shall not publish or disclose in any manner, without the Task Ordering Officer’s written consent, the details of any
      safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor under this Task Order or otherwise provided by the Government.  Exception -
      Disclosure to a Consumer Agency for purposes of C&A verification.   <List any other exceptions as necessary>


  ii. To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and
      confidentiality of any non-public Government data collected and stored by the Contractor, the Contractor shall afford the Government
      logical and physical access to the Contractor’s facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and
      databases within 72 hours of the request.  Automated audits shall include, but are not limited to, the following methods:

      • Authenticated and unauthenticated operating system/network vulnerability scans

      • Authenticated and unauthenticated web application vulnerability scans

      • Authenticated and unauthenticated database application vulnerability scans



      Automated scans can be performed by Government personnel, or agents acting on behalf of the Government, using Government operated
      equipment, and Government specified tools.  If the vendor chooses to run its own automated scans or audits, results from these scans may,
      at the Government’s discretion, be accepted in lieu of Government performed vulnerability scans.  In these cases, scanning tools and their
      configuration shall be approved by the Government.  In addition, the results of vendor-conducted scans shall be provided, in full, to the
      Government.


 iii. If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either the Government or the Contractor, or if existing safeguards have ceased
      to function, the discoverer shall immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party.



C&A PROJECT KICK-OFF MEETING

The contractor shall initiate work on this C&A requirement by meeting with key client agency representatives, to include the FAS C&A contractor,
to ensure that a common understanding of the requirements, expectations, and ultimate end products exists between all Parties.  The FAS C&A
contractor shall conduct all the security testing required for accreditation.  The contractor shall discuss their understanding of the project,
and review the background information and materials provided by the Government.  Discussion shall also include the scope of work to be
performed, the deliverables to be produced, how contractor work efforts will be planned and organized, what assumptions are being made by the
Contractor/Government in proceeding to complete the work, and contract deliverables.  A concerted effort shall be made by the contractor to gain
a thorough understanding of the Government’s expectations.  However, nothing discussed in this or in any other subsequent meetings or
discussions between the client and the contractor will be construed as adding, deleting, or modifying any contract requirements, including
deliverables and due dates without a written modification issued by the Contracting Officer.  All members will agree upon the data that shall be
collected to complete the process and will identify personnel who will be interviewed to collect the data.  A draft C&A plan shall be reviewed.
It shall include a schedule of all identified project activities, milestones, and meetings.

GENERAL COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS

GSA information systems are the property of the Government.  The contractor shall be responsible for adhering to all aspects of the Privacy Act
and is prohibited from removing from the worksite any programs, documentation, or data without the knowledge AND written approval of the COTR.

PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

All contractor personnel performing the certification and accreditation shall be Certified Information Systems Security Professionals (CISSP).
Equivalent professional certifications may be acceptable under certain circumstances.


Sensitive Information Storage

Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) information, data, and/or equipment will only be disclosed to authorized personnel on a Need-To-Know basis.
The contractor shall ensure that appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards are established to ensure the security and
confidentiality of this information, data, and/or equipment is properly protected.  When no longer required, this information, data, and/or
equipment will be returned to Government control, destroyed, or held until otherwise directed.  Destruction of items shall be accomplished by
tearing into small parts, burning, shredding, or any other method that precludes the reconstruction of the material.  All sensitive information
contained on contractor computers shall be either degaussed or shall use the Department of Defense method of a three time overwrite of the
sensitive data.

The Contractor shall archive the DOTGOV Registration data and provide a copy to the COTR in January and June of each calendar year.  The archive
copy shall be delivered on compact disk (CD).

The disposition of all data will be at the written direction of the COTR, this may include documents returned to Government control; destroyed;
or held as specified until otherwise directed.  Items returned to the Government shall be hand carried or sent by certified mail to the COTR.

Protection of Information

The contractor shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of work under this
contract.  The contractor shall also protect all Government data, equipment, etc. by treating the information as sensitive.  All information
about the systems gathered or created under this contract should be considered as SBU information.  It is anticipated that this information will
be gathered, created, and stored within the primary work location.  If contractor personnel must remove any information from the primary work
area they should protect it to the same extent they would their proprietary data and/or company trade secrets.  The use of any information that
is subject to the Privacy Act will be utilized in full accordance with all rules of conduct as applicable to Privacy Act Information.

The government will retain unrestricted rights to government data.  The ordering activity retains ownership of any user created/loaded data and
applications hosted on vendor’s infrastructure, as well as maintains the right to request full copies of these at any time.

The data that is processed and stored by the various applications within the network infrastructure contains financial data as well as
personally identifiable information (PII).  This data and PII shall be protected against unauthorized access, disclosure or modification, theft,
or destruction.  The contractor shall ensure that the facilities that house the network infrastructure are physically secure.

The data must be available to the Government upon request within one business day or within the timeframe specified otherwise, and shall not be
used for any other purpose other than that specified herein.  The contractor shall provide requested data at no additional cost to the
government.

No data shall be released by the Contractor without the consent of the Government in writing.  All requests for release must be submitted in
writing to the COTR/CO.



Security Classification

The preparation of the deliverables in this contract will be completed at a Sensitive but Unclassified level.

Confidentiality and Nondisclosure

The preliminary and final deliverables and all associated working papers and other material deemed relevant by the agency that have been
generated by the contractor in the performance of this contract, are the property of the U.S. Government and must be submitted to the COTR at
the conclusion of the contract.

All documents produced for this project are the property of the U.S. Government and cannot be reproduced, or retained by the contractor.  All
appropriate project documentation will be given to the agency during and at the end of this contract.  The contractor shall not release any
information without the written consent of the Contracting Officer.

Personnel working on any of the described tasks may, at Government request, be required to sign formal non-disclosure and/or conflict of
interest agreements to guarantee the protection and integrity of Government information and documents.


Privacy Act

The use of any information that is subject to the Privacy Act shall be utilized in complete accordance with all rules of conduct as applicable
to Privacy Act Information.

7b. Standards and Measures

Standards
The contractor shall adhere to all information security requirements below:

|Standard                          |Description                                                   |Website or Alternative Availability                  |
|OMB Circular A-130                |Guidance for the management of Federal Information Resources  |http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a130/a130tran|
|                                  |                                                              |s4.html                                              |
|Federal Information Security      |Information Security for Federal Government Systems           |www.csrc.nist.gov/drivers/documents/FISMA-final.pdf  |
|Management Act of 2002 (FISMA)    |                                                              |                                                     |
|Rehabilitation Management Act of  |Web site accessibility for persons with disabilities          |http://www.section508.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=conten|
|1973 §508                         |                                                              |t&ID=12                                              |
|36 CFR §1194                      |Accessibility standards                                       |http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_03/36cfr11|
|                                  |                                                              |94_03.html                                           |
|41 CFR §102-173                   |“Final Rule”  Federal Management Regulation; Internet GOV     |http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_01/41cfrv3|
|                                  |Domain                                                        |_01.html                                             |
|NIST Special Publication 800-81   |Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Deployment Guide              |www.csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-81/SP800-|
|revision 1                        |                                                              |81.pdf                                               |
|All applicable NIST Standards and |Various                                                       |Various                                              |
|Guidelines                        |                                                              |                                                     |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security 01-02   |Incident Handling Guide and Reporting Form                    |Available on request                                 |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security 01-05   |Developing a Configuration Management Plan                    |Available on request                                 |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security 01-07   |Access Control                                                |Available on request                                 |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security 01-08   |Auditing and Monitoring                                       |Available on request                                 |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security 01-09   |IT Security Procedural Guide:  Certification and Accreditation|Available on request                                 |
|GSA Order CPO IL-03-1             |Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information Technology|Available on request                                 |
|                                  |Systems – Ensuring Privacy and Security of Personal           |                                                     |
|                                  |Information                                                   |                                                     |
|GSA Order CIO IT Security -09-48  |Security Language for IT Acquisition Efforts                  |Available on request                                 |


The DNSSEC service must adhere to the guidance and/or standards outlined in the following publications:

|Description                                                                 |Website                                                                    |
|National Institutes of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Special            |http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html                             |
|Publications 800-53 r3, and 800-81 r1                                       |                                                                           |
|NIST Special Publication 800-57 (Parts 1, 2 and 3), Recommendation for Key  |http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html                             |
|Management – Part 1: General, Part 2: Best Practices for Key Management     |                                                                           |
|Organization                                                                |                                                                           |
|RFC 4033 DNS Security Introduction and                                      |http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4033.txt                                        |
|Requirements (October 10, 2004)                                             |                                                                           |
|RFC 4034 Resource Records for the DNS Security Extensions (March, 2005)     |http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4034.txt                                        |
|RFC 4045 Protocol Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions (March,     |http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4045.txt                                        |
|2005)                                                                       |                                                                           |
|RFC RFC5155 DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed Authenticated Denial of Existence  |http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5155.txt                                        |
|(March, 2008)                                                               |                                                                           |
|RFC RFC5011 Automated Updates of DNS Security (DNSSEC) Trust Anchors        |http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5011.txt                                        |
|(September 2007)                                                            |                                                                           |

All work and deliverables must conform to the standards for correctness and completeness referenced in the SOO.

The contractor shall ensure that any information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 will be managed in accordance with the provisions of the
act. (http://www.usdoj.gov/oip/privstat.htm )

The criteria of The IT Security Procedural Guide:  Certification and Accreditation (C&A) CIO-IT Security 01-09 ensure compliance with the GSA
Information Technology (IT) Security Policy, CIO P 2100.1E and Federal Regulations .

The Configuration Management Guidance Document includes information and guidance for the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Standard.  All
later revisions shall be implemented as approved and within the allowable timeframe established.

The Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Standard is designed to improve control, management, and reporting of developmental as well as
operational information technology (IT) applications and projects for compliance of the Clinger-Cohen Act.

The DOTGOV support systems shall also comply with the Federal Standards listed above.


8. Performance Measures

Through various means the Government will be conducting quality assurance to ensure the contractor is providing the requisite level of service
to the Government.  The means may be through customer surveys, inquiries made to other Government offices, and/or through customer comments.
Below is a list of the areas that will be reviewed, at a minimum, for contract effectiveness.  The Contractor must meet the following
Performance Measures at all times during the performance of the contract:


|Performance Measure              |Goal                                                                   |Monitor                 |
|All deliverables                 |Received on or ahead of schedule                                       |PM/COTR                 |
|                                 |All deliverables shall be presented in professional format             |                        |
|Erroneous data input             |Does not exceed .5% per month of all data inputs                       |PM/COTR                 |
|                                 |Erroneously activated domain names shall be corrected within 1 business|                        |
|                                 |hour.                                                                  |                        |
|Service Availability             |99.9%. The system will be available for domain registrations 99.9% of  |PM/COTR                 |
|                                 |the time per year.  This will be measured by uptime.                   |                        |
|                                 |The COTR is to be notified with the cause of the problem and estimated |                        |
|                                 |time to restoration.                                                   |                        |
|Unauthorized access              |Sufficient safeguards shall be in effect to monitor and protect against|PM/COTR                 |
|                                 |unauthorized activity.                                                 |                        |
|                                 |Any unauthorized access/activity will be reported to the COTR and the  |                        |
|                                 |Department of Homeland Security’s United States-Computer Emergency     |                        |
|                                 |Readiness Team (US-CERT) via the FAS OCIO Information Security Office  |                        |
|                                 |within 1 business hour.                                                |                        |
|Help Desk Support                |Answering and response of phone call and emails made to the DOTGOV     |PM/Agency customers     |
|                                 |Helpdesk within 2 hours, or by next business day if after hours.       |                        |
|                                 |Response call back time to customers  within 1/2 hour after receipt of |                        |
|                                 |message, for emergency situations.                                     |                        |
|                                 |Mean time to resolve-resolution of technical issue within 4 hours      |                        |
|Infrastructure & Resolution      |Infrastructure can compensate for a variety of single points of failure|PM/Agency customers     |
|Availability                     |without the client base experiencing noticeable impact.                |                        |
|                                 |Network shall be available to all clientele 24 hours per day, 7 days a |                        |
|                                 |week.                                                                  |                        |
|                                 |Ability to resolve .Gov DNS inquiries 100% of the time.                |                        |
|Domain Name Registrations        |Users are registered and activated within 48 hours after receipt of all|PM/Agency customers     |
|                                 |required user information.                                             |                        |
|                                 |Inquiries are addressed within one business day.                       |                        |

The Quality Assurance reviews will consist of quarterly performance reviews.  The contractor shall provide data to support the above performance
measures on a quarterly basis.  Performance measures are reported quarterly by the DOTGOV Program Office to the GSA Administrator.


9. Miscellaneous Provisions



KEY PERSONNEL

(a) The Contractor shall assign and identify the following key personnel who will provide management,  administrative,  and  technical  interface
  with Government personnel in the day-to-day performance of the contract:

|1              |ISSO                                        |
|2              |DBA                                         |
|3              |Operations                                  |
|4              |Customer Response                           |


(b) Individuals assigned to these labor categories shall be designated as key personnel upon ordering of services and approval  of  the  position
  by the COR/COTR.  Replacement of these individuals must be approved by the COR/COTR.

(c) All key personnel are subject to the following:

  1. Replacement is subject to the prior written approval of the COR/COTR.

  2. Requests for replacement shall include a detailed resume containing a description of position duties and qualifications,  information  about
     the qualifications of the individual(s) proposed, and any additional information requested by the Contracting Officer in  sufficient  detail
     to permit the Contracting Officer to evaluate the impact on the work the Contractor is obligated to perform hereunder.

  3. Contractor proposals to move any key personnel off the contract shall be submitted in writing at least  fifteen  (15)  days  in  advance  of
     proposed moves, and are subject to the approval of the COR/COTR, including approval of proposed replacements.  No diversion shall be made by
     the Contractor without the written consent of the COR/COTR.

  4. The Government reserves the right to review the qualifications of key personnel  selected  to  work  on  this  contract  before  assignment,
     including the individuals proposed (in the Contractor's proposal) and any replacements for these individuals, and to reject individuals whom
     it determines are not suitable for the program.  The Government also reserves this right in  certain  circumstances  when  specific  non-key
     personnel are required for specific tasks.

(d) The list of key personnel set forth may be amended from time to time during the course of the contract to either add or delete personnel,  as
  appropriate.


Facilities

Performance will be at the Contractor’s facilities.

The Contractor shall be: (a) incorporated in one of the fifty states of the United States or the District of Columbia; or (b) organized under a
law of a state of the United States or the District of Columbia.

The Contractor shall possess and maintain through the performance of this procurement a physical address within the United States. All critical
functions will be performed at the prime, such as domain registrations, not at the sub-contractor level.  In addition, all DOTGOV operations
must be performed in the Continental U.S. only (CONUS).   This includes DNS nodes and the DNS distribution servers must be located within CONUS.
 Outside CONUS DNS distribution servers will not be allowed for DOTGOV. The contractor shall provide the primary location for performance below,
as well as the location for the redundant backup site.

Place of Performance:
|Place of Performance (Street Address, City, State, ZIP Code)                                  |
|________________________________                                                              |
|________________________________                                                              |
|________________________________                                                              |
|________________________________                                                              |
|________________________________                                                              |
|________________________________                                                              |


|Redundant Backup Site:  (Street Address, City, State, ZIP Code)                                    |
|________________________________                                                                   |
|________________________________                                                                   |
|________________________________                                                                   |
|________________________________                                                                   |
|________________________________                                                                   |
|________________________________                                                                   |

Transition

Transition is the process for the coordinated transfer of service from the incumbent Contractor to the incoming Contractor. DOTGOV is providing
domain registration services to approximately 5,000 Federal, State and Local Governments and Native Sovereign Nations (NSN’s), therefore it is
imperative that all services continue without lapse.  A Transition Plan is required to be submitted as a part of the technical proposal.

Personnel Requirements

The Contractor shall provide staff to ensure all work is performed on schedule in accordance with the SOO. All staff interfacing with Government
clients (federal, state, county, local and Native Sovereign Nation (NSN) shall be fluent in the English language both verbal and written.

GOV Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) Responsibilities

The COTR is designated by the Contracting Officer to perform technical liaison between the Contractor’s management and the Contracting Officer
in routine technical matters constituting general program direction within the scope of the contract.

The responsibilities and limitations of the COTR are as follows:
    (1) The COTR is responsible for the technical aspects of the project and serves as technical liaison with the Contractor.  The COTR is also
responsible for the final inspection and acceptance of all reports and such other responsibilities as may be specified in the contract.
    (2) The COTR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the
contract price, terms or conditions.  Any Contractor request for changes shall be referred to the Contracting Officer directly or through the
COTR.  No such changes shall be made without the expressed prior authorization of the Contracting Officer.  The Contracting Officer may consider
one designated person to act as an alternate COTR, if required by the Program Office.  The designation will be limited to the specific person
requested by the Program Office, in writing with specified duties and responsibilities assigned.  The alternate must have training and the
technical background to fulfill this duty, as determined by the Contracting Officer.

Technical Direction

The Government Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) may provide technical direction and general guidance to the Contractor and
key resource personnel.

As used herein, “Technical Direction” is direction to the Contractor that fills in details, suggests possible lines of inquiry, or otherwise
completes the general scope of the work.  “Technical Direction” must be within the terms of this contract, shall not change or modify the
contract in any way, and shall not constitute changes (as described in the IBR clause of this contract entitled “52.243-1 Changes – Fixed Price
Alternate I (April 1984), which may only be accomplished by written direction from the Contracting Officer (CO).

Direct Order/Direct Bill

Under direct-order/direct bill, agencies may go directly to the DOTGOV Contractor to place the order.  The billing for these services is
directly between the DOTGOV Contractor and the ordering agency.

Contracting Officer’s Authority

The Contracting Officer is the only person authorized to approve changes in any of the requirements of the contract.

Central Contractor Registration (CCR)

The Contractor shall register in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) system, which is a central database of data in support of Agency
missions, prior to being awarded a contract (FAR 52.204-7). The registration form is at www.ccr.gov and requires the Contractor’s Data Universal
Numbering System (DUNS) number.

Government Furnished Property

Government furnished property will not be provided.

Government Furnished Information

An SQL database containing zone files for all DOTGOV domain names will be provided as Government-Furnished-Information (GFI) to the contractor
at award.


Disclosure of Information

Any information made available to the Contractor by the Government shall be used only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
contract and shall not be divulged or made known in any manner to any persons except as may be necessary in the performance of the contract.  In
performance of this contract, the Contractor assumes responsibility for protection of the confidentiality of Government records and shall ensure
that all work performed by its subcontractors shall be under the supervision of the Contractor or the Contractor’s responsible employees.  Each
officer or employee of the Contractor or any of its subcontractors to whom any Government record may be made available or disclosed shall be
notified in writing by the Contractor that information disclosed to such officer or employee can be used only for that purpose and to the extent
authorized herein. Further disclosure of any such information, by any means, for a purpose or to an extent unauthorized herein, may subject the
offender to criminal sanctions imposed by 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030.


Representations and Certifications (ORCA)

Contractors shall use the ORCA electronic systems for the submission of Representations and Certifications https://orca.bpn.gov/ .
Dun and Bradstreet Number and Tax Identification Number (TIN) shall be provided in the proposal

Cancellation

The GSA CIO, Program and Contracting Offices will work with the awarded Contractor to assist the Contractor in passing the C&A. In the case
whereby a C&A cannot be accomplished within reasonable time, the Government reserves the right to cancel this contract by providing written
notice.

The cancellation shall be effective (5) calendar days after Contractor receives the notice of cancellation.  This cancellation is NOT a
termination for the convenience of the Government, and Contractor will not be entitled to submit a claim for termination costs.

52.217-8  Option to Extend Services (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 30 days prior to expiration of the contract.

52.217-9  Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days prior to the end of the contract
period of performance; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days
before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 5 years.

52.237-3  Continuity of Services (Jan 1991)
(a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and
that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them.  The Contractor agrees to—
(1) Furnish phase-in training; and
(2) Exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor.
(b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer’s written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this
contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services
required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the
plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer’s approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-
in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency.
(c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and
consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to
conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a
mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor.
(d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after
contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit)
under this contract.

Draft Instructions to Offerors and Evaluation Factors

Proposal Format and Submission Instructions

Each proposal shall consist of two separate volumes.

    • Volume 1, Technical  Approach shall be organized as follows and include:

               Factor 1 - Technical/Management Approach

               Factor 2 - Transition Approach (including DNS & DNSSEC)

               Factor 3 - Past Performance (including DNS)


               Volume 1 is limited to 25 total pages (excluding resumes, pre-award C&A Plan and Transition Plan).


    • Volume 2, Price Proposal, shall provide a fee to be charged per-registration, and transition period price.

      Factor 4  Price

        Section 1 - Per-registration fee (includes new and annual renewal registrations)

        Section 2 - Transition price


        Volume 2 has no page limit, but shall be limited to pricing related information.

The proposal shall not simply rephrase or state the Government requirements, but rather, shall provide convincing rationale or information to
address how the offerer meets and or exceeds the requirements outlined above. Statements that your company “understands the requirement and will
comply,” are not satisfactory. In addition, the offerer shall assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of their facilities, personnel,
or experience, and evaluation will be based on the information presented in the offerer proposal.

Each volume shall be in English and marked with the solicitation number, title and offerer's name. Pages shall be numbered. The typewritten or
printed letters shall be no smaller than 11 point Times New Roman. The proposal submissions shall be in Microsoft Word or electronic PDF format
only.


Evaluation Criteria for Award

This acquisition is being conducted under FAR Part 12, Acquisition of Commercial Items and Part 13.5 Test Program for Certain Commercial Items.
The Government will evaluate proposals submitted in response to this acquisition for services and will award a contract to the technically
acceptable, responsible offeror whose offer represents the best value to the Government. The GSA CIO, Program and Contracting Offices will work
with the awarded Contractor to assist the Contractor in passing the C&A. However, it should be noted that a positive review of the pre-award C&A
plan required under Factor 2 below can result in an award determination, but is not, in itself, a guarantee that the contractor will ultimately
obtain C&A Authority To Operate and begin performance.

All evaluation factors other than price, when combined, are considered significantly more important than price, but as non-price scores become
closer the price becomes more important.  Non-price factors 1, 2, and 3 are in descending order of importance.

All subfactors under each factor are considered of equal importance.


Factor 1 - Technical/Management Approach

At a minimum, the proposal must reflect a thorough demonstration and understanding of the DOTGOV system, business requirements, functionality,
and complexities and provide a system solution to accomplish all aspects of the program.  The proposal must provide a plan with clear, concise,
and specific solutions.

Performance Work Statement (PWS):  The offeror must include a PWS to describe its technical approach indicating exactly what will be done for
the Government.  These include, at a minimum:

      Subfactor 1  Quality Assurance Plan (QAP):

         The offeror must include a Quality Assurance Plan which addresses accomplishment of contract performance and program goals supported by
         a quality assurance program:

         1. Provides definition and implementation procedures for the performance standards and/or specifications offered.

                   2. Clearly demonstrates policies and procedures for operation and maintenance of the system. Indicate the speed and
           methodologies employed for fixing problems with DNS and DNSSEC. Escalation procedures and Change Management/Change Control procedures
           must be clearly identified.

          3. Provides documentation of current system certifications.

         4. Provides a clearly demonstrated process for obtaining customer feedback addressing all aspects of customer interface and translating
           that feedback to appropriate process improvement and verifying the effectiveness of the process improvement.

         5. Clearly demonstrates a system of performance metrics, inspections, and record keeping.

      Subfactor 2  Technical –

          • Website management.

          • Approach to Contract Administration, including a list of specific deliverables that will be provided and a proposed delivery
            schedule.

          • Contingency planning.

          • Approach to provide domain name services that push registration, zone files, domain request to the Internet as required.

          • Testing and Certification at FIPS 199 High Impact Level.

          • Domain registration management.

          • Helpdesk services.

          • Management of fee processing.

          • The collections process.

          • Monthly status reports.



   Subfactor 3  Staffing –




          • The Contractor shall identify and provide resumes for the following key personnel who will provide  management,  administrative,  and
            technical interface with Government personnel in the day-to-day performance of the contract:

|1            |ISSO                                  |
|2            |DBA                                   |
|3            |Operations                            |
|4            |Customer Response                     |



          • Key Personnel staffing and experience. Training and technical certifications (e.g. CMM, CMMI, etc), and security clearances required
            for each staff position, and the Contractor’s approach to ensuring personnel are current in training and certifications.

          • Help desk support staff, customer service staff, records maintenance staff, domain registration processing staff.


   Subfactor 4  Security –

          • Domain registration system security including physical, technical and administrative security

          • Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC). Include specific details and steps to meet DNSSEC requirements. Demonstrate that the product
            offered will meet the requirements. Alternate approaches must enable proper cutover from current approach. Show that agency (other
            than GSA) DNSSEC services will not be interrupted.

          • System data storage and handling security.




Factor 2 - Transition Approach and DNSSEC Implementation

The Government requires a seamless transition between the current contractor and the offeror, and from the current DOTGOV system (to include
DNSSEC) to the offeror’s proposed DOTGOV system ensuring a complete database transfer and synchronization of data, DNSSEC management of keys and
uninterrupted service of DOTGOV as the single provider for Federal, State, and Local DOTGOV domain registration activities.  This requirement
applies to all functionality, risk, and all operations and services.  The DOTGOV system, under the operations and management of the current
incumbent, will remain operational with complete functionality and continuity of services during the transition phase from the current system to
any new system. The awardee’s system shall also provide operational functionality and continuity of services during and after the transition
phase. Service cutover shall not impact the customer agencies’ DNS and DNSSEC.

Preaward C&A Plan: A Preaward C&A Plan must be submitted with the proposal, demonstrating that all required C&A documentation will be provided
for within the 120 day time frame set forth below. However, a positive review of the preaward C&A plan is not, in itself, a guarantee that the
contractor will obtain final C&A Authority To Operate.


The offeror shall demonstrate that the solution proposed will meet DNS and DNSSEC requirements, implement the high impact security level, and
indicate, if any, potential impact on agency customers. Draft documentation shall be submitted to the COTR to start the C&A process not later
than 30 days after date of award (see attachment 1 – section 6 Deliverables).

At a minimum: the Transition Plan should demonstrate a time-phased process for:

   1. Transition of DOTGOV system operations including procedures for operation and maintenance during the transition.

   2. Implementing new connections and application upgrades, including, but not limited to, system implementation, data migration, and IV&V.

   3. Preaward C&A Plan: The offeror’s approach and time schedule for obtaining the required C&A compliance for DOTGOV system.

           Note: If the selected firm fails to receive C&A adjudication within 120 days after submission of documentation (150 days after
           contract award), the government reserves the right to cancel the contract, and the process (award & C&A) will recommence with the
           next highest ranked firm.

   4. Evidence of the ability to provide no hardware failures and a system availability of greater than ninety-nine point nine per cent (>99.9%)
      must be demonstrated for transition acceptance.




Factor 3 - Past Performance

The offeror shall submit relevant performance within the past three (3) years on a minimum of three (3) contracts or delivery/task orders,
similar in size, scale, scope, and nature to this requirement, to include experience with domain registration, and provide references and
contact information from these sources. Show how the offeror has implemented a similar system. The Government may contact references to verify
information submitted to include type of work performed and level of performance.  The offeror must connect the relevance of the offeror’s past
experience on similar projects to this project and demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of the Government’s requirements. An offeror with
no relevant past performance history shall receive a neutral rating. In addition, the offeror will follow the instructions in Attachment 3, Past
Performance Information Sheet, to obtain information for submission directly from previous or current customers.




Factor 4 – Price (Domain Per-Registration Fee and Transition Cost) (price will not be a rated factor).

This factor includes the fee for DOTGOV registrations and annual renewals, and transition price:

Assumptions or Conditions:. Offerors shall submit any assumptions and/or conditions upon which the Price Proposal is based. The Government
reserves the right to reject any proposal that includes any assumption(s) or conditions that impacts or affects satisfying the Government’s
requirements.



Per-registration fee and transition cost will be evaluated separately. The per-registration fee is more important than the transition price.


The offer must include a proposed domain per-registration fee (new and annual renewal) per the sample below. The proposed fee must include
implementation of all tasks and requirements outlined in this solicitation for the DOTGOV program. The contractor shall be responsible for
collecting and retaining those fees.  There will be no cost or administrative burden to GSA (aside from Transition expenses), conveyed in the
form of invoices for payment, etc.

The per-registration price proposed shall not exceed $125.00 (for the base year and any option periods).

The below formula will be used to determine the total registration costs to the Government (base plus options) for new annual  and renewal per-
registration fees:


$__________________ X 5,000* =  $________________________ (Base year)
  Per-registration price                        1st year total annual revenue


$__________________ X 5,750* =  $________________________(Option year 1)
  Per-registration price                        2nd year total annual revenue


$__________________ X 6,613* =  $________________________(Option year 2)
  Per registration price                        3rd year total annual revenue


$__________________ X 7,604* =  $________________________(Option year 3)
  Per registration price                        4th year total annual revenue


$__________________ X 8.745* =  $________________________(Option year 4)
  Per registration price                        5th  year total annual revenue


*Denotes current estimated DOTGOV 2nd level domain registrations times a 15% growth factor. Historical growth indicates a probability of 15%
growth in new and annual registrations per year (This criteria is ONLY for evaluation purposes, and GSA gives no guarantees as to growth, if
any, over the life of the contract. The Contractor may also create additional growth).

Note: The Contractor shall be responsible for management of the root DOTGOV domain and registration of 2nd level domains only (for example,
gsa.gov).  Fees must only be assessed on 2nd level domains (for example gsa.gov); 3rd and 4th level domains and lower shall not incur fees. The
contractor will collect the fee from the entities directly.

There shall be no claims made to GSA as a result of sums owed to the Contractor by domain registering requiring activities. All collections
efforts shall be focused on the domain registering requiring activities.


Fixed Transition Price (one-time cost)

The offeror’s proposed transition period price (firm fixed price, per the criteria below) shall be clearly indicated in the offer. The
transition period runs from date of submission of C&A documentation (30 days after award) to receipt of C&A Authority To Operate (approximately
120 days). Transition price must only include those costs incurred while meeting the requirements of Attachment 1, 7a – Exclusive Certification
and Accreditation (C&A) Guidance and Attachment 2, Factor 2 – Transition Approach and DNSSEC Implementation. No additional costs will be
negotiated/allowed.

Offeror’s fixed transition price (in U.S. dollars)




$______________________.

The basis for determining transition price reasonableness will include vendor comparison and any other information that the government has
available.


The offeror should take into consideration when developing its transition price that the transition price will be paid in 3 monthly
installments, at 30, 60 and 90 days after submission of C&A documentation. Reimbursement will be limited to the price proposed. Billing address
will be provided after contract award.







Signed Cover Letter/Statement

The proposal shall be accompanied by a cover letter statement bearing company logo, signed by an individual authorized to commit the company.

The cover letter must also state that the offered system shall be at a FIPS 199 High Impact Security Categorization.

The cover letter must also state that the proposal is being submitted by an organization that is (a) incorporated within one of the fifty states
of the United States of America or the District of Columbia, or (b) organized under a law of a state of the United States of America.

In addition the Offeror must have a physical address within the United States of America or the District of Columbia. All critical functions
will be performed at the prime, such as domain registrations, not at the sub-contractor level.  In addition, all DOTGOV operations must be
performed in the Continental U.S. only (CONUS).   This includes DNS nodes and the DNS distribution servers must be located within CONUS.
Outside CONUS DNS distribution servers will not be allowed for DOTGOV.  Provide the Place of Performance and Redundant backup site address in
the box provided under the “Facilities” provision in the SOO.


BASIS FOR AWARD

All assumptions will be evaluated as part of the individual factor or subfactor to which they apply. The Government reserves the right to reject
any proposal that includes any assumption(s) or conditions that impacts or affects satisfying the Government’s requirements.

The Government intends to award based on initial proposals without discussions, unless discussions are deemed necessary by the Contracting
Officer. The Government intends to award based on initial offers conforming to the solicitation that will be most advantageous to the
Government, considering price and other factors.

As technical proposals become equal, price increases in importance.

The Government reserves the right to make an award to other than the lowest priced offeror or to the offeror with other than the highest rating
in non-price factors if the Contracting Officer determines that to do so would result in the best value to the Government.

For the purposes of this solicitation, “best value” means the expected outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government’s evaluation, provides
the greatest overall benefit to the Government in response to the solicitation.


Past Performance Information Sheet
The Offeror shall complete items 1 through 16 of each form and forward the form to each responsible official of the reference projects for
completion. Offerors shall solicit one (and only one) response for each project/customer.

This individual shall complete the “Past Performance Information Sheet” and insert the signed document into a sealed envelope.  The individual
shall also sign the closure flap of the envelope, adhere clear tape over the signature and return it directly to the contractor.  The Offeror
shall forward all sealed envelopes into one sealed envelope and submit them with its proposal in Volume I – Technical Proposal.

Provide frank, concise comments regarding performance on the contract identified.

|1        |1. Offeror Name                                               |                                                              |
|         |(Company/Division)                                            |                                                              |
|2        |2. Contract Number                                            |                                                              |
|3        |3. Task Order Number                                          |                                                              |
|4        |4. Award Date                                                 |                                                              |
|5        |5. Program/Project Title                                      |                                                              |
|6        |6. Customer/Agency                                            |                                                              |
|7        |7. Customer Point of Contact                                  |                                                              |
|         |8. Address                                                    |                                                              |
|         |9. Telephone Number                                           |                                                              |
|         |10. Fax Number                                                |                                                              |
|         |11. E-mail Address                                            |                                                              |
|8        |12. Contract Value                                            |                                                              |
|9        |13. Brief Description of Project                              |                                                              |
|10       |14. Period of Performance                                     |                                                              |
|11       |15. Completion Date                                           |                                                              |
|12       |16. Identify deliverables                                     |                                                              |
|13       |17. How would you rate quality of work?                       |                                                              |
|14       |18. How would you rate management of work?                    |                                                              |
|15       |19. How would you rate responsiveness to work related issues? |                                                              |
|16       |20. How well did they manage cost?                            |                                                              |
|17       |21. Did they meet socioeconomic /subcontracting goals?  If not|                                                              |
|         |why?                                                          |                                                              |
|18       |22. How well did they meet mission requirements?              |                                                              |
|19       |23. How efficiently did they handle trouble calls and         |                                                              |
|         |complaints?                                                   |                                                              |
|20       |24. Were there any invoicing issues?                          |                                                              |
|21       |25. How did they manage quality control?                      |                                                              |
|22       |26. How many times has the schedule changed?                  |                                                              |
|23       |27. Briefly state the cause for the schedule changes?         |                                                              |
|24       |28. Was the effort performed as a Prime or Subcontractor?     |                                                              |


ATTACHMENT 5 - Quarterly Revenue Report

|       Contractor Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|     |               |                            |                                                                                   |                                                   |           |              |                        |                        |                                                                                                                                                      |
|                                                                              GSA Contract Number: QTA010BRA0002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                          Quarterly Revenue Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|                                                                          Reporting Period: July 1, 2010 â€“ September 30, 2010                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|       |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |                    |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                         |
|       |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |                    |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                         |
|       |Date Payment|Agency Name / Ordering      |FED/      |Description of Services                           |                          |Total             |Amount Received     |GSA Registration Fee Collected                                 |GSA Per Registration                                                                                                                                                     |
|       |Received    |Activity                    |S&L       |                                                  |                          |Registrations     |                    |                                                               |Charge Remitted                                                                                                                                                          |
|       |            |                            |          |                                                  |Delivery Order Number     |Ordered           |                    |                                                               |Charge Remitted                                                                                                                                                          |
|2      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|3      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|4      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|5      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|6      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|7      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |
|8      |            |                            |          |                                                  |                          |                  |                    |                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                         |
|       |            |                            |          |TOTALS                                            |                          |                  |$                   |$                                                              |$                                                                                                                                                                        |




    EFT Number: ______________________       Amount: ______________
