
INTERESTED CONTRACTOR'S CAPABILITY STATEMENT
INTERESTED CONTRACTORS SHALL COMPLETE THIS WORKSHEET
SECTION ONE COMPANY INFORMATION
COMPANY NAME
ADDRESS
POINT OF CONTACT
E-MAIL
TELEPHONE
CAGE CODE
WEB PAGE URL
SECTION TWO COMPANY'S SMALL BUSINESS STATUS YES NO
Small Business
Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB)
8(a)-certified Small Business
Service-disabled Veteran-owned Small Business (SDVOSB)
Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB)
Historically Underutilized Business (HUBZone)
SECTION THREE PWS REVIEW YES NO
Indicate if the contractor's POC read the following PWS sections:
Section 1, Description of Product
Section 2, Task Description
Section 3, Government Furnished Resources
Section 4, General Work Requirements
Section 5, Other Direct Cost / Travel Requirements
Section 6, Contractor Personnel Requirements
Section 7, Management of Deliverables and Reporting
Section 8, Security Requirements
SECTION FOUR CAPABILITIES
In this section, the contractor shall clearly and succinctly document the capability to perform each of the factors.
NOTES
1.  The contractor shall not disregard or otherwise discount the value of any factor in relation to other factors.
2.  The contractor should vertically expand the block directly underneath each factor to accommodate a response of reasonable length.
3.  The contractor shall indicate by X if the Prime or Subcontractor possesses the capability for each factor.
4.  Non-response to any factor is considered self-stated lack of capability.
5.  After completing this section (Section Four), the contractor may also provide a 4-8 page capabilities document as noted in the Sources Sought Synopsis.
4.1 SCOPE DISCRIMINATORS PRIME SUB
4.1.1 Does the contractor possess the capability to travel to the potential kickoff locations listed in the draft Statement of Work? 
4.1.2 Does the contractor possess the capability to provide personnel able support the development of multiple courses at one time,  including any necessary supervisors and project managers?
4.2 FINANCIAL DISCRIMINATORS PRIME SUB
4.2.1 Does the contractor possess the capability to finance operations of this scope?
4.2.2 Has the contractor financed other services of similar scope? Please provide examples of past performance and indicate whether the efforts were Government related.
4.3 TECHNICAL DISCRIMINATORS PRIME SUB
4.3.1 Does the contractor possess the capability to provide local and regional management of these efforts?
4.3.2 Does the contractor possess the necessary supplies and personnel to complete this effort? NOTE: the Government will provide course content and Subject Matter expertise
4.3.3 Does the contractor possess the capability to protect classified materials?
4.34 Does the contractor possess the capability to provide project management resources for planning projects as well as developing and maintaining an accurate course analysis?
STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW) Air Force Institute of Technology School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS)

SYS Course Development Program

14 February 2011

1. DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCT: 1.1 Introduction. The Air Force Institute of Technology School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) requires the creation and completion of learning initiatives for a wide-range of DoD customers/sponsors. All initiatives must employ a structured, adaptive, collaborative effort to develop the standards, tools and learning content for the future learning environment. 1.1.1 Background. This SOW is for the development of a series of learning initiatives (e.g. courses). AFIT/LS expects to require between 8-12 courses to be developed annually, although the actual number may vary. Each course's length, content and interactivity level is expected to vary as well. All of the course content used for the course will need to be developed to meet current web-based course requirements of the DoD, the USAF, and those specific to the LMS. The course will need to meet Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) 2004 format requirements, and Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (handicap accessibility) compliance standards. The course content will be conducive to adult learning theories by including graphics, exercises and student interactivity. The AFIT/LS intends to use a curriculum development team involved throughout the process so that questions can be quickly answered and material quickly provided as needed by the developing contractor. Scope of Work. Development of each course is based on a series of experiences and challenges, combined with education and training opportunities that enable the learners to grow and succeed professionally as well as meet Air Force needs. The effort will include developing new content to incorporate direction from Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). This effort will include creating graphics, animations and exercises. Learning initiatives may include, but are not limited to, computer-based (CBT), web-based (e-learning), video-based and blended (combined) and the development of live/classroom-based courses. Vendors are encouraged to propose the inclusion of new leading edge technologies, such as pod casting and others not yet defined. Development services include the creation of presentation materials (web based, videos, audio, or other media). This effort may also require calculations, algorithms and or codes to support new material, graphics animations and exercises. The effort will incorporate techniques for maximizing student interaction through engagement and multiple interactive exercises per module of instruction. The course will be created to meet AFIT requirements and be redeployed onto the Air Force Institute of Technology's learning Management System website. The course will be required to meet Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) 2004 format requirements, and Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (handicap accessibility) compliance standards. The contractor is responsible for maintaining an effective, efficient, and economical organization and operative work program. This includes planning, organizing, coordinating, and acquiring the necessary qualified personnel and material toward the accomplishment of all tasks defined herein. It is expected the overall course will be a Category 2 "Medium grade Presentation" with Level 2 "Limited Participation".

1.1.2

1.1.3 Applicable Documents. The Contractor shall be knowledgeable of the following applicable Policy, Regulation, and Guidance 1.1.3.1 DoD Instruction 1322.20, Development and Management of Interactive Courseware (ICW) for Military Training 1.1.3.2 AFMAN 36-2234 Instructional System Development 1.1.3.3 AFH 36-2235, Volume 10 Information for Designers of Instructional Systems: Application to Education 1.1.3.4 Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) 2004 conformance Test Suite 1.1.3.5 Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 794(d)) 1.1.3.6 AFIT Style Guide v1.2 1.1.3.7 MIL-HDBK-29612-4A 1.1.3.7.1 Category 1 ­ Low Grade Presentation 1.1.3.7.2 Category 2 ­ Medium Grade Presentation 1.1.3.7.3 Category 3 ­ High Simulation Presentation Knowledge of these items is required to perform the effort as defined in the SOW and the associated basic contract. Copies of the specific documentation will be provided by AFIT/LS. The date of contract award will be considered as a baseline date for all instructions that are not final. 1.2 General Requirements/Technical Standards. This SOW is for the creation of a new course, including input of course content, development of transitions between learning modules, input of student interactive exercises. AFIT requirements for this course include, but are not limited to: 1.3 General Requirements/Technical Standards. This SOW is for the creation of a new course, including input of course content, develop transitions between learning modules, input student interactive exercises, and continued deployment of the course on the AFIT LMS. AFIT requirements for this course include, but are not limited to: 1.3.1 Contractor shall generate markup language code or content standards compliant with World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) standards. Additionally, the contractor shall ensure distributed learning content and meta-data is SCORM 2004 conformant to ensure accessibility, durability, re-usability, and interoperability and complies with DoD instructions 1322.20. Courses must fully function on the current Air Force Enterprise Configuration management Office's (AFECMO) Standard Desktop Configuration (SDC). Courses shall be completely accessible through Air Force firewalls whether hosted from within or accessed from outside the .mil domain. Web Based Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) Content shall meet the following 1.3.3.1 Conform to the provisions of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 794(d)) 1.3.3.2 SCORM 2004 RTE Conformance 1.3.3.3 Use of Category 1 or 1X mobile code is unauthorized. All mobile code downloads should be from trusted sources as signed Cat 1A, Cat 2 or Cat

1.3.2 1.3.3

3 code. The developer will be responsible for providing a signature with such code. 1.3.4 The contractor will provide all related source code and build scripts for any contractor-developed software deliverables so that AFIT can reproduce an identical executable from source code within our test and/or production environments. AFIT will also be able to independently modify the source code with the expectation of generating fully-functioning software after modification. 1.3.4.1 Encode to the resolution that provides necessary level of quality 1.3.4.2 All media will be displayable through Windows Media Player or through a customized Adobe Flash player. All audio will be encoded as MP3 or Flash Audio (FLA) formats, with FLA used when embedded in Adobe Flash content. All Adobe Flash video/audio will have pre-loaders instructing the user of the amount of time left for download of viewing 1.3.4.3 Consider "download and play" formats if streams don't provide satisfactory level of quality, performance, size, buffering, etc. 1.3.5 The course shall be developed using the AF's Instructional System Design (ISD) process The course shall provide a Level two (2) Limited participation level of student interaction and variety to maintain interest and maximize learning using sound adult learning concepts and theories. The course shall achieve the objectives identified in the Course Lesson Plan with test questions that demonstrate the objectives have been met. The course will be Alpha and Beta tested with representative AF personnel. The contractor will make revisions after these tests have been completed based on feedback. These changes must also be tested as per the original submittal(s). The course shall implement the navigation controls identified in the AFIT Style Guide.

1.3.6

1.3.7

1.3.8

1.3.9

1.3.10 The course must demonstrate sound instructional design methodology. 1.3.11 The course shall be designed such that it can be easily updated for content and functionality in a spiral or evolutionary manner, incrementally building/improving them over time. The use of locking HTML changes to template styles,(non-editable) is not accepted. 1.3.12 The course files shall operate on AFIT's Learning Management System (LMS). The contractor shall load the course on the vendor development site at Learn.com to demonstrate compatibility. 1.3.13 The file structure used for the various courses, files must use logically understood names/directories and clear module and page designators (see AFIT Style Guide). 1.3.14 Data Requirements

1.3.14.1 The contractor shall provide a Course Configuration Document Plan (CDRL A001). 1.3.14.2 The contractor shall provide a Course Test Plan (CDRL A002). 1.3.14.3 The contractor shall provide an Instructional Design Document (CDRL A003). 1.3.14.4 The contractor shall provide Final Courseware (CDRL A004) including all source code and files (to include approved storyboards). 1.3.14.5 All original source code in an editable format (CDRL A005) 1.3.14.6 All final storyboards (CDRL A006) 1.3.14.7 Management Plan (CDRL A007) 1.3.14.8 Content Analysis (CDRL A008)

1.4 The contractor shall work with the Air Force subject matter experts to ensure course content implementation, transition between modules, and the student's interactive exercises to promote adult learning. Development will focus on: DoD and AF policy, guidance, instruction, and tools. The contractor shall work with the assigned SMEs to define design and develop efforts to improve the course. 1.5 The contractor shall develop the course content to meet required DoD and AF standards, support SME and AFIT course content reviews, modify course design as needed, and support AFIT points of contacts with posting of final course design onto their website. 1.6 Contract Deliverables. All projects created or modified from AF owned sources are the property of the AF, including all source materials and courses which may be reutilized by any organization throughout the AF. The minimum delivery requirements for all projects are: 1.6.1 A Course Configuration Documentation Plan describing file naming conventions and file placement. The course folder shall be broken down by module so the government will be able to tell that a particular course file belongs to certain modules. (A001) 1.6.2 A Web-Based Course Test Plan describing how all electronic courses will be tested IAW the AFIT Web Based Course Test Plan (A002). 1.6.3 Instructional Design Documentation description of how the course(s) will be developed using the AFIT Instructional Design Document and comply with AF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) standards as prescribed in AFMAN 36-2234 (A003). 1.6.4 All Web Based Courseware presentation material and source files including source code (html, fla, js, swf, etc.) on CD/DVD, or other electronic media. The contractor must ensure that all data deliverables comply with current applicable copyright laws including appropriate markings. Additionally, the contractor must return all materials required for the development of the course. This includes but is not limited to the developed course required by the AFIT POC, any and all printed materials, computer documents, audio or video media, and all source code files. (A004) 1.6.5 The following table lists the 4 CDRLs pertinent to the contract. List of CDRLs

CDRL A001 A002 A003 A004

DID DI-SESS-81695 DI-SESS-81696 DI-SESS-81697 DI-SESS-81699

Data Item Title Course Configuration Documentation Plan Web Based Course Test Plan Instructional Design Documentation Web Based Courseware

Frequency/Due Date As set forth in each Task Order As set forth in each Task Order As set forth in each Task Order As set forth in each Task Order

2.0 Task Description. The contractor shall develop the course incorporating an instructional strategy focused on providing a liberally interactive course that uses multiple exercises, examples, scenarios, or other methods that require thought and actively engage the student. It is expected the overall course will be a Category 2 "Medium Grade Presentation" with Level 2 "Limited Participation". 2.1 MIL-HDBK-29612-4A defines these terms as: Category 1 - Low Grade Presentation. This is the lowest (baseline) category of ICW development. It is normally a knowledge or familiarization lesson, provided in a linear format (one idea after another). Category 1 is primarily used for introducing an idea or concept. The user has little or no control over the sequence and timed events of the MIL-HDBK Category 2 - Medium Grade Presentation. This category involves the recall of more information than a Category 1 presentation and allows the student more control over the lesson's scenario through screen icons and other peripherals, such as light pens or touch screens. Typically Category 2 is used for non-complex operations and maintenance lessons. Simple emulations or simulations are presented to the user. As an example, the user is requested to rotate switches, turn dials, make adjustments, or identify and replace a faulted component as part of a procedure. This category also may include simple to standard developed graphics, and/or clip art, and customer provided video and audio clips. Category 3 - High Simulation Presentation. This category involves the recall of more complex information (compared to Categories 1 and 2) and allows the user an increased level of control over the lesson scenario through peripherals such as light pen, touch screen, track ball, or mouse. Video, graphics, or a combination of both are presented simulating the operation of a system, subsystem, or equipment to the user. The lesson scenario training material typically is complex and involves more frequent use of peripherals to affect a transfer of learning. Operation and maintenance procedures are normally practiced with Category 3 scenarios and students may be required to alternate between multiple screens to keep pace with the lesson material. Multiple software branches (two to three levels) and rapid response are provided to support remediation. Emulations and simulations are an integral part of this presentation. This category may also include complex developed graphics, and/or clip art, and customer provided video and audio clips

2.2 Levels of interactivity. Interactivity, a two-way communication in which stimuli/response is direct and continual. It describes the degree of student involvement/interactivity in the instructional activity. There are four levels of interactivity. They are: Level 1 - Passive. The student acts solely as a receiver of information. Level 2 - Limited participation. The student makes simple responses to instructional cues. Level 3 - Complex participation. The student makes a variety of responses using varied techniques in response to instructional cues. Level 4 - Real-time participation. The student is directly involved in a life-like set of complex cues and responses 3. Government Furnished Resources. The Government will furnish necessary, available, and reasonable access to government personnel and SMEs. The sponsor will provide all required Policies and Instructions. The AFIT and the SMEs will provide access to the course content and provide insight into the required course content modifications. 4. General Work Requirements 4.1 Location and Hours of Work. The contractor shall perform the development at the contractor facility. Access to relevant government documentation and facilities will be provided through coordination with the AFIT POC. 4.2 Data Rights. All products (software, coding, documentation, reports, or any other items) developed under this SOW or resulting from this SOW shall be the property of the Government with unlimited rights, except as pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 3710a(c)(7)(A) & (B), the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552, et seq. 5. Other Direct Cost / Travel Requirements. 5.1 Travel. Travel may be required during the conduct of this effort. Travel requirements for meetings with SMEs and AFIT/LS personnel may be planned as needed. The government estimates two (2) trips may be required. The potential meeting locations are: Kettering, OH and Wright Patterson AFB OH. The contractor shall coordinate meeting times and dates with SMEs, AFIT/LS personnel, and the AFIT Program Manager. Additional travel requirements shall be identified by the contractor, if required. 5.1.1 Before travel is performed, the contractor personnel shall obtain approval from the AFIT/LS Program Manger. The contractor shall ensure due diligence in finding the most economical itinerary to include airlines and lodging. All travel reimbursement shall be according to Joint Travel Regulations. 5.1.2 The contractor shall provide a report of travel expenses within 72 hours of conclusion, to the AFIT/LS Program Manager in Excel format. The report shall include travel order request number such as the travel approval date, date reservations were made, and cost

of each authorized expense. Report shall reflect a running tally of costs for all approved travel and cumulative total.

6

Management of Deliverables and Reporting. The contractor shall provide informal oral reviews of activities, programs, and or issues whenever required. On the last business day of the month the contractor shall submit a monthly status report, via email, to the ASC/PK Contracting Officer and AFIT/LS Program Manager. The report shall address efforts completed for the reporting period and those efforts anticipated during the next reporting period. Each monthly status report shall include the contractor personnel by labor category who worked on the project during the reporting period, schedule, status, issues (problems encountered), and anticipated actions. Security Requirements. It is anticipated that access to classified material will not be required in support of this effort. However, the contract personnel require a minimum of a NAC/SF85 for any position that requires access to the INTERNET, AUTOMATED SYSTEM or unescorted entry into restricted or controlled areas. The investigation is not for a security clearance; it is for a POSITION OF TRUST. The contractor shall notify the PROGRAM OFFICE, when the NAC has been initiated and completed. This is a mandatory requirement listed in DoD 5200.02-R and AFI 31-401 Information Security. The contractor shall comply with the security requirements of the contract and the final DD Form 254, DoD Contract Security Classification Specification available from www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd0254.pdf. The contractor shall notify AFIT/LS when the security documentation has been initiated and completed. The contractor will provide all related source code and build scripts for any contractor-developed software deliverables so that AFIT can reproduce an identical executable from source code within our test and/or production environments. AFIT will also be able to independently modify the source code with the expectation of generating fully-functioning software after modification.

7

