Background

The Department of Education’s (The Department, Department, ED) mission is to ensure equal access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the nation. The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE) Office of Academic Improvement Teacher Quality (AITQ) is responsible for administering the 21st Century Community Learning Centers (21st CCLC) program, which is among the many grant programs that support the mission of ED. 



The 21st CCLC program is a State formula-grant program authorized under Title IV, Part B, of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001.  The No Child Left Behind Act converted the 21st CCLC program from discretionary grants made directly by ED, to a program in which each State receives a grant based on its share of ESEA Title I, Part A funds.  States must use their allocations to make competitive awards to eligible entities.  The Secretary may reserve up to one percent of the total appropriation for the 21st CCLC program to carry out an array of national activities, including (but not limited to) national evaluations and the technical assistance activities described in this statement of work.

The goal of the 21st CCLC program is to enable eligible entities serving high needs communities to plan, implement, or expand academic enrichment opportunities supporting out-of-school time and expanded learning time (ELT).  The program helps students meet state and local student standards in core academic subjects, such as reading and math; offers students a broad array of enrichment activities that can complement their regular academic programs; and offers literacy and other educational services to the families of participating children. 



Purpose and Scope

Accurate and timely data collection is necessary to determine the needs and performance metrics of the 21st CCLC program. Further, reporting on program results to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is required under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA). This Performance Work Statement (PWS) reflects a Fixed Price Performance-Based Acquisition (PBA) with a base plus four option periods. The scope of the PWS encompasses Contractor support services to perform the development, operations, sustainment, documentation, training, and enhancement of a cloud-based technology solution for the collection of information on the 21st CCLC program to assess annual and longitudinal progress at the national and state level. 



The Contractor shall adhere to all Federal Government, Department of Education regulations, directives and standards related to the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, also known as the Information Technology Management Reform Act (ITMRA), Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), the Government Information Security Reform Act (GISRA), the Computer Security Act of 1987, OMB Circulars A-130 and A-123, and IRM 2.1.10. 



Objectives and Tasks

The following overarching objectives are mandated to be accomplished under this contract.

Establish a partner-focused working relationship with Government.

Provide a partnership with team members and/or subcontractors that appears seamless to the Government and that fosters shared accountability and responsibility among all partners. 

Establish appropriate and effective incentives that fundamentally align the goals and objectives of the Contractor and Government to ensure superior services are provided.

Throughout the life of this effort, demonstrate improved performance, reliability, security, and reduced cost of operating a cloud-based technology solution for the collection of information on the 21st CCLC program.

Given the dynamics of the information technology environment, establish a task order arrangement that easily accommodates change (i.e. implement new and innovative technologies).

Provide timely services to enable the 21st CCLC Program to assess annual and longitudinal progress at the national and state level and to meet its mission critical requirements.

Task 1 – Contract/Project Administration	



Task 1.1 - Kick-off Meeting

Within five days of contract award, of all contract periods, the Contractor shall conduct a kickoff meeting with the Government to discuss contract objectives and timelines.  The Contractor shall conduct the kickoff meeting at the Department of Education headquarters in southwest Washington, D.C.  The Contractor shall provide the meeting agenda, any meeting artifacts (including the initial project plan and timeline, and subsequent meeting minutes).



Task 1.2 - Phase-In and Phase-Out Periods

The Contractor shall develop comprehensive procedures for phasing in and phasing out Contractor performance to the level prescribed and within the time allowed under the terms of this contract. The Contractor's phase-in and phase-out procedures shall not disrupt or adversely impact the day-to-day conduct of Government business.

		

Task 1.2.1 - Phase-In

During the phase-in period of all contract periods, the Contractor shall prepare to assume full responsibility for all areas of operation in accordance with the terms and conditions of this contract.  The Contractor shall submit an initial Phase-In Plan with the technical proposal, and shall submit a Supplemental Phase-In Plan to the CO for review and approval no later than 10 calendar days after contract award date.   The Supplemental Plan shall finalize the Contractor’s efforts to affect a smooth and orderly implementation of contract responsibility.

During the phase-in period, the Contractor shall at a minimum:

Establish the project management office

Recruit and hire necessary personnel

Obtain all required certifications, licenses, permits, and clearances, including personnel security clearances if applicable

Participate in joint inventories and sign for Government-Furnished Property (GFP)

Continue to develop and submit required deliverables

Attend post-award meetings as required



Deliverable(s):

Phase-In Plan

		

Task 1.2.2 - Phase-Out

An initial phase out plan should be submitted within 90 calendar days prior to the end of the base period. A final phase out plan shall be submitted 90 calendar days prior to the completion of this contract, (including option periods) in order to facilitate a smooth and orderly transfer of contract responsibility to a successor, to the government, or to retire the system.



Task 1.2.2.1 Phase-Out to Successor or to Government (OPTIONAL)

The Contractor shall adhere to the tasks and activities detailed in the approved Phase-Out Plan.  During this time, management personnel of the incoming workforce or Government may observe operations and performance methods of the incumbent Contractor.  This will allow for the orderly turnover of equipment and records and will ensure continuity of service. The Contractor shall not defer any requirements for the purpose of avoiding responsibility or of transferring such responsibility to the succeeding Contractor or Government. The Contractor shall fully cooperate with the succeeding Contractor and the Government to accomplish this task. 



Task 1.2.2.2 Phase-Out to Retire (OPTIONAL)

The Contractor shall adhere to the tasks and activities detailed in the approved Phase-Out Plan.  During this time, the system should be archived. All digital information to include contract and system documentation, webpages, and databases and data should be packaged and delivered to the government.  All software licenses directly paid for by the contract should be transferred to the Government and all hardware either packaged and delivered or properly disposed of based on Federal guidelines.



Deliverable(s):

Phase-Out Plan



Task 1.3 - Project Management Support

The Contractor’s project management shall include detailed planning and coordination of contract activities and related technical engineering requirements to enable the efficient development, operations, sustainment, documentation, training, and enhancement of the Analytic and Data Support to States for 21st Century Community Learning Centers (21st CCLC) Contract. The Contractor shall provide project management support to promote the optimal use of Contractor resources, ensure adequate contract performance, and establish management controls in order to provide quality services within budget and on time. 



Project management shall consist of:

Management of the Contractor’s activities using industry standard project management processes to initiate, plan, execute, control, and close the project in accordance with the Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) or other industry standards.

Monthly progress reports that include, at a minimum: a brief, factual summary description of operation and maintenance activity and costs incurred for each task (or groups of tasks) during the reporting period, work scheduled for the next reporting period, variances between work scheduled and work performed, issues, risks and proposed corrective actions. The report shall also provide performance measurement status, as required by this contract, and an extract from the risk management repository. Note that Earned Value Management (EVM) reporting is required for all enhancement activities.  These enhancement activities will be detailed as separate tasks to this PWS and awarded as needed by the Government.  EVM reporting requirements are also detailed in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) subpart 34.2.

Management of processes and procedures that demonstrate management controls are in place, used, and quality control is conducted.

Contractor shall develop and maintain an Integrated Project Schedule using Microsoft Project.

The Contractor shall establish an electronic project library. As part of this library, the Contractor shall maintain, update, and create (where necessary) the following:

Personnel and Staffing Plan

Project Management Plan

Integrated Project Schedule

Monthly Progress Report

Personnel Roster updated semi-annually or as needed

Phase-in Plan

Phase-Out Plan

User manuals

Style guides



The Contractor may also be required to provide assistance to ED in developing strategies to address non-technical concerns for operating a system that is used nationwide. ED may request briefings, white papers, strategy documents, data extracts, and other reports, as necessary. It is estimated that no more than five (5) white papers and documents per year and four (4) hours per quarter of briefings will be required.	



Task 1.4 - Project Effectiveness Plan and Annual Report           

Within 60 days of contract award, the Contractor shall create a Project Effectiveness Plan that identifies expected project outcomes, assesses the extent to which these outcomes are achieved; and provides evidence of improvement. The Project Effectiveness Plan shall include both qualitative and quantitative measures.



Every six months, the Contractor shall submit a Semi-Annual Effectiveness Report.   Utilizing the measures within the Project Effectiveness Plan, the Semi-Annual Report shall provide ED with a comprehensive evaluation and analysis on the effectiveness of the activities and tasks performed under this contract.  The Semi-Annual Report shall also provide recommendations for future project enhancements.



Task 2 – System Training and Support

The Contractor shall develop customized technical assistance to States and subgrantees. Delivery of technical assistance shall include both on-site and virtual capabilities.  The contractor shall provide scalable, web-based solutions as a service (SaaS / PaaS) to provide virtual, instructor-led, and blended technical assistance programs. Technical assistance shall consist of: 



Task 2.1 - Virtual Technical Assistance

Annually, the Contractor shall provide 12 targeted virtual technical assistance sessions using interactive satellite platforms for technical assistance, such as webinars, discussions forums, expert panels, etc.  In cooperation with the Department, these sessions will be approximately 30-60 minutes in length and address topics of interest as they relate to 21st CCLC data collection and system usage. All content shall be approved by the Department prior to delivery. All webinars shall be recorded and made available on the data collection and reporting system and adhere to electronic records retention requirements.



Task 2.2 - National, State or Regional Conference support

The Contractor shall, upon request, make high-quality, informed presentations at conferences or meetings based on work accomplished under the tasks in this contract.  Up to eight (8) such presentations are estimated per year.  The Contractor may be requested to present with ED staff or alone at Department or State sponsored conferences or events.  The Contractor shall create presentation slides and provide all materials necessary for their presentation, such as handouts or reference materials.  The Contractor shall provide the COR with copies of their final presentations no later than five (5) business days prior to the meeting for review and approval.



Task 2.3 – User Support

Within 30 days of contract award, the Contractor shall establish and publicize a 21CCLC APR email address (ed.gov domain) and toll-free phone number that all users and ED representatives can use to request technical assistance and/or advice on data collection and system usage.  The contractor shall provide written responses to email requests for information within two (2) working days of receiving such requests.  The contractor shall triage requests for advice and assistance to the appropriate Contractor team member and/or ED personnel based on a triage flowchart that shall be initially developed in draft by the contractor and finalized in consultation with the contracting officer’s representative (COR).



The contractor may provide verbal responses to either phone or emailed questions from users; however all questions and responses shall be appropriately documented in writing regardless of whether the response was via phone or email.  The contractor shall maintain original copies of all emails, and correspondence requesting technical assistance and/or advice and provide them to ED promptly upon request.  The contractor shall also maintain an electronic log of all incoming requests for technical assistance and/or advice, to include the requestor’s name, organization, question, Contractor’s or ED’s response, date of request and date response provided.  The contractor shall provide the log to the (COR) monthly as an appendix to the contractor’s monthly report.  It is anticipated that the contractor will receive no more than 25 email requests for information per day, averaging 5 -10 requests on any given day.

 

Task 3 - Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment

Accurate data is necessary to assess the performance and report annually on GPRA to the Congress on the 21st CCLC program. The Contractor shall utilize the current approved OMB data collection forms for OMB Control Number 1810-0668 () to inform interim and future data collection and reporting.    



Task 3.1 – Interim Data Collection

In the base year, the Contractor shall establish an interim process to collect 21st CCLC annual performance data from States and subgrantees.  In the absence of a data collection system, the contractor shall develop, in consultation with ED, a manner in which to obtain the information necessary for GPRA reporting to OMB. This may be accomplished utilizing MS Excel, a commercial off the shelf (COTS) product, or other methodology. In order to accommodate the various reporting schedules of State 21st CCLC programs, States and their subgrantees shall be allowed to submit their performance data, utilizing the interim methodology, anytime between April 1 and December 15, 2015. During the interim reporting period, ED will identify the data elements upon which information must be collected. 

	

Task 3.2 – Final Design 

Within nine (9) months of contract award date, the Contractor shall design, develop, test and present for user acceptance testing (UAT), a cloud-based data collection and reporting solution. Within twelve (12) months of contract award date, the Contractor shall deploy a fully tested and functional cloud-based data collection and reporting system. The underlying technology utilized shall (at a minimum):

be web/cloud based

be developed using responsive design principals optimized for computers, tablets and smartphones in support of the Federal government’s Digital Strategy to “enable the American people and an increasingly mobile workforce to access high-quality digital government information and services anywhere, anytime, on any device.”

be accessible via a standard web browser that does not require the installation of any additional software or non-standard 3rd party browser plugins.

capitalize on evolving functionality

have a .gov domain name (OMB Memorandum M-05-04)

be flexible in design to adjust to increases in user volumes

allow ED staff the ability to generate ad hoc reports featuring self-selected data fields. 



Task 4 - OMB collection

The Contractor shall update annually the existing information collection requests (ICR) and supporting statement to include burden estimates for any new or modified data elements identified as necessary for the successful reporting on annual performance and GPRAs.  As necessary and in consultation with ED, the contractor shall prepare responses to any questions regarding the ICR as it goes through the Department, OMB and public clearance processes.  



Task 5 - Stakeholder Collaboration



Task 5.1 - Technical Working Group

The Contractor shall assemble a Technical Working Group to collaborate on the data collection and reporting system requirements and enhancements.  Meetings occur quarterly and shall consist of the following:

one (1) face-to-face (in-person) meeting annually in Washington, DC at an ED Facility; and 

three (3) annually via virtual capabilities (as defined in Task 2)



For the one (1) face-to-face annual meeting, the Contractor shall coordinate and reimburse the travel, per diem, and lodging arrangements for non-local TWG members.  The pricing for travel and lodging will be a fixed price that is negotiated for a non-local TWG member (one night).  Each annual face-to-face annual meeting shall have a minimum of seven (7) non-local TWG members, with a maximum number of non-local TWG members of fourteen (14).  The Contractor shall reimburse based on the Federal per diem rate for individual expenses and travel.  The TWG members will not be provided an honorarium or any additional fee.  Except for the non-local TWG members, meeting attendees will pay for their own travel, lodging, and personal expenses.  The Contractor shall reimburse non-local TWG members for all reimbursable hotel, airline and ground transportation (common carrier) charges. 



The membership of the TWG shall be:  Fifteen (15) total members; at least one (1) 21st CCLC SEA, one (1) 21st CCLC Subject Matter Expert (SME), one (1) 21st CCLC subgrantee and one (1) ED employee.  All members shall be approved by ED.



Task 5.2 – Listening Sessions

The Contractor shall assemble a minimum of three (3) listening sessions consisting of grantees and subgrantees in the base year and each option year. The listening sessions will assist in determining the training needs of the data collection and reporting system users, provide feedback on the methods used in the delivery of training and recommend functional changes to the data collection and reporting system.  Listening sessions shall consist of the following:

one (1) face-to-face (in-person) listening session annually in Washington, DC at an ED Facility; and

two (2) listening sessions are to be held in conjunction with National, State or Regional Sponsored Conferences where a representative number of grantees and subgrantees are already in attendance.  Reimbursement of expenses will not be provided.



For the one (1) face-to-face annual listening session, the Contractor shall coordinate and reimburse the travel, per diem, and lodging arrangements for non-local attendees.  The pricing for travel and lodging will be a fixed price that is negotiated for non-local attendees (one night).  Each annual face-to-face annual listening session shall have a minimum of ten (10) non-local attendees, with a maximum number of non-local attendees of twenty (20).  The Contractor shall reimburse based on the Federal per diem rate for individual expenses and travel.  The listening session attendees will not be provided an honorarium or any additional fee.  Except for the non-local attendees, attendees will pay for their own travel, lodging, and personal expenses.  The Contractor shall reimburse non-local attendees for all reimbursable hotel, airline and ground transportation (common carrier) charges.  



Task 6 - Annual Performance Reports

The Contractor shall support the Department’s reporting requirements on GPRA performance. Utilizing legacy data, OMB collection forms, and new data collection efforts, the Contractor shall deliver an annual performance report on the 21st CCLC program. 



Task 6.1 - Legacy Data APR 

During the Base Period, based on legacy data provided by the Department from the prior contract, the Contractor shall generate an annual performance report by April 1, 2015. 



Task 6.2 - Interim Data Collection APR

During the first option period, based on the data collected under Task 3.1, the Contractor shall deliver an APR by February 20, 2016.

	

Task 6.3 – OutYear (OY) APRs	

During the second and third option periods, based on data collected under Task 3.2, the Contractor shall deliver an APR no later than 30 days prior to the end of the option period.

	

Task 7 - Operations & Maintenance

Operate and maintain the data collection and reporting system in accordance with established practices

Ensure the data collection and reporting system remains fully functional and stable (e.g. bug-fixes, security upgrades, software patches), and complete all required system, hardware and software upgrades in a timely manner.  Note: all upgrades or enhancements shall be coordinated with ED.

Interface daily with users/customers and other ED personnel to maintain a high quality of support for the data collection and reporting system.  Responsibilities shall include system usage training for the users, and rapid response to all technical problems reported to the Contractor by the users or by ED staff.  



Task 7.1 - Asset Management Support

The Contractor shall provide a full range of Asset Management Support including, but not limited to:

Shipment of Automated Data Processing (ADP) assets, including coordination with shipping and receiving departments to ship and track inventory assets;

Receipt of ADP assets including moving, unpacking, ensuring distribution and testing, and completing all required documentation;

Perform installation and troubleshooting of hardware as needed;

Dispose of aging equipment ensuring that all information has been wiped/erased in accordance with applicable security regulations; 

Work with manufacturers in connection with upgrades and repairs of equipment, memory, processor upgrades, Operating Systems (OS) issues, all hardware replacements and registration of those assets;

Providing a report listing updates to existing assets every 6 months



The Contractor is responsible for ensuring adequate staffing for scheduling, performance, and reporting of these assigned tasks; in addition, the COR may assign additional tasks related to these routine tasks as circumstances warrant. The Contractor shall provide oversight of all tasks at the data collection and reporting system locations.



Task 7.2 - Compliance with ED IT Security Policy

The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall comply with the Department of Education’s IT security policy requirements, specifically those set forth in the ‘Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy (OCIO-01)’, and other applicable procedures and guidance. The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall develop and implement management, operational and technical security controls to assure required levels of protection for information systems.  The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall further comply with all applicable Federal IT security requirements including, but not limited to, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 Appendix III, Homeland Security Presidential Directives (HSPD), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidance, and the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) requirements and guidance.



These security requirements include, but are not limited to, the successful Security Authorization (SA) of the system (includes commercially owned and operated systems managed by the commercial vendor and its sub-contractors, supporting Department programs, contracts, and projects); obtaining a full Authority to Operate (ATO) before being granted operational status; performance of annual self-assessments of security controls; annual Contingency Plan testing; performance of periodic vulnerability scans; updating all information system security documentation as changes occur; and other continuous monitoring activities, which may include, mapping, penetration and other intrusive scanning. Full and unfettered access for the Department’s third party Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP) must be granted to access all computers and networks used for this system.  Additionally, when there is a significant change to the system’s security posture, the system (Federal and commercial prime- and sub- contractors included) must have a new SA, with all required activities to obtain a new ATO, signed by the Authorizing Official (AO).



System security controls shall be designed and implemented consistent with NIST SP 800-53 Rev 3, ‘Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations.’  All NIST SP 800-53 controls must be tested / assessed no less than every 3 years, according to federal and Department policy. The risk impact level of the system will be determined via the completion of the Department's inventory form and shall meet the accurate depiction of security categorization as outlined in Federal Information Publishing Standards (FIPS) 199, ‘Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems.’   



System security documentation shall be developed to record and support the implementation of the security controls for the system.  This documentation shall be maintained for the life of the system.  The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall review and update the system security documentation at least annually and after significant changes to the system, to ensure the relevance and accurate depiction of the implemented system controls and to reflect changes to the system and its environment of operation.  Security documentation must be developed in accordance with the NIST 800 series and Department of Education policy and guidance.  System security documentation may include but is not limited to:

Risk Management Plan

IT Contingency and Disaster Recovery Plan

Configuration Management Plan and Repository

Change Management Plan

Requirements Management Plan

Functional Requirements Document 

System Design Document 

NIST Self-Assessment (Annually)

Remediation Plan (Plan of Actions and Milestones Submissions)

System Security Plan

Department of Education Data Sensitivity 

Incident Response Plan

Security Controls Assessment Plan

System Characterization Document

System Disposal Plan



The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall allow Department employees (or Department designated third party contractors) access to the hosting facility to conduct SA activities to include control reviews in accordance with NIST SP 800-53, Rev. 3 and NIST SP 800-53A.  The contractor, and all sub-contractors, shall be available for interviews and demonstrations of security control compliance to support the SA process and continuous monitoring of system security.   In addition, if the system is rated as ‘Moderate’ or ‘High’ for FIPS 199 risk impact, vulnerability scanning and penetration testing shall be performed on the hosting facility and application as part of the SA process.   Appropriate access agreements will be reviewed and signed before any scanning or testing occurs.



Identified deficiencies between required NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3 controls and the contractor’s, and all sub-contractor’s implementation, as documented in the Risk Assessment Report, System Security Plan (SSP) and Security Assessment Report (SAR), shall be tracked for mitigation through the development of a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) in accordance with the ‘Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy (OCIO-01).’ Depending on the severity of the deficiencies, the Department may require remediation before an ATO is issued.

All awarded contracts shall ensure that:

Their IT product/system is monitored during all hours of operations using entrusted detective/preventive systems;

Their IT product/system has current antiviral products installed and operational;

Their IT product/system is scanned on a reoccurring basis;

Vulnerabilities are remediated in a timely manner on their IT product/system; and 

Access/view for cybersecurity situational awareness on their IT product/system is made available to the Department CIRC (cyber incident response capability).



Task 7.3 - Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6)

For IPv6, the contractor shall provide COTS solutions that are IPv6 capable.  An IPv6 capable system or product shall be capable of receiving, processing, transmitting and forwarding IPv6 packets and/or interfacing with other systems and protocols in a manner similar to that of IPv4.  Specific criteria to be deemed IPv6 capable are: 

An IPv6 capable system that meets the IPv6 base requirements defined by the USGv6 Profile ().

Systems being developed, procured or acquired shall maintain interoperability with IPv4 systems/capabilities.

Systems shall implement IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack and shall also be built to determine which protocol layer to use depending on the destination host it is attempting to communicate with or establish a socket with.  If either protocol is possible, systems shall employ IPv6.



The contractor shall provide IPv6 technical support for system development, implementation and management.



Task 7.4 - Reporting of Data Security Breaches

If there is a suspected or known breach/disclosure of PII due to lost, theft, intercepted transfer, or other, the contractor must ensure that this breach is reported to the agency as soon as the contractor has knowledge of it.  Per Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-06-19, Federal agencies have a requirement to report breaches of PII security to a Federal incident response center.  OESE must notify the department within 30 minutes of discovering the incident (and the agency should not distinguish between suspected or confirmed breaches). The data security plan must be written to reflect this requirement, and the contractor must provide sufficient notification and documentation of the suspected loss, as it is understood at the time of notification to the agency for this requirement to be met.  Follow-up reports of the final status of loss events will also be prepared by the contractor within a reasonable period of time as advised by the OESE COR.



Task 8 - Performance Requirements, Standards, Surveillance and Incentives 

The performance of the data collection and reporting system is critical toward user acceptance and the goal of improving the data collection for annual performance and GPRA reporting for our nation’s 21st CCLC Practitioners and ED. ED’s commitment to the data collection and reporting system extends to their expectations that a Contractor shall also share that commitment. The Contractor shall adhere to the following performance requirements to include:

Once implemented, the data collection and reporting system required functionality is maintained, with components that are industry standard, and with a user interface that meets user expectations.

The data collection and reporting system is operated and maintained using repeatable industry standard life cycle processes; engineering practices that optimize system performance; and management practices that control and assure quality.

The data collection and reporting system is tested using repeatable industry standard life cycle processes and methodologies.

The data collection and reporting system core functionality and enhancements are deployed using a planned deployment schedule that considers all deployment factors, on time, within budget, and with minimal burden/downtime to its users.

Services that include responsiveness to: 

The data collection and reporting system users regarding questions or assistance with the application;

System administrators regarding standard system maintenance and operational issues; and

Government project managers regarding ongoing system cost, performance, reporting, and application issues. 

Contractor resources that are managed to optimize cost, performance, and schedule.

Services optimize the value to the government by providing technical and management advice and support as needed to make the 21st CCLC Program and the data collection and reporting system successful.

The Government believes there is value in incorporating Performance-Based Acquisition (PBA) methodology with an outcomes-based focus for this work.  The Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan included in this contract. 

Contractor Assistance:

The Contractor shall respond to requests from the COR or COR designees for information, including programmed (scheduled) and un-programmed requests. 

The Contractor shall make Contractor-generated non-proprietary technical records, reports, files, and other documentation available to the CO, CO’s representatives, and COR during the performance of this contract. 



Task 8.1 - Compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act

In 1998, Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act to require Federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Inaccessible technology interferes with an individual's ability to obtain and use information quickly and easily. Section 508 was enacted to eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of technologies that will help achieve these goals. The law applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. Under Section 508 (29 U.S.C. 794d), agencies must give disabled employees and members of the public access to information that is comparable to the access available to others.  All deliverables developed under this work statement will comply with the Section 508 of the “Americans with Disabilities Act” technical standards for web and software accessibility located at 36 CFR 1194.21 and 1194.22. 