







                                                       U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
                                                                     Region 5



                                                         Performance Work Statement (PWS)
                                                                       For
                                               Technical Support Services for Clean Water Act (CWA)
                                                                November 16, 2009































1. INTRODUCTION

1. Under the authority of the Clean Water Act (CWA), including the amendments of 1987, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is charged with
   protecting the surface water quality within the United States.  The CWA employs a variety of regulatory and non-regulatory tools to protect
   and manage watersheds (including wetlands, dredging and sediment management) in order to reduce direct pollutant discharges into waterways,
   finance municipal wastewater treatment facilities, and manage polluted runoff. These tools are employed to achieve the broader goal of
   restoring and maintaining the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters so that they can support "the protection and
   propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife and recreation in and on the water."

   EPA has established core programs to implement the CWA including:  1) the Total Maximum Daily Loads program (TMDL); 2) the National Pollutant
   Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program for point sources; 3) the Water Quality Standards program; 4) the section 319 program for
   Non-Point Source (NPS) control; 5) the Wetlands program and CWA Section’s 401, 402, & 404; and 6) Water Quality monitoring program.  Region
   5’s Water Division is responsible for overseeing the implementation of these core programs within Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota,
   Ohio, and Wisconsin and the authorized tribal lands within these States.

   In addition, the work required will support the efforts of EPA’s Great Lakes National Program Office (GLNPO).  GLNPO, located in Chicago, acts
   as the Agency's knowledge center for a specific geographic area, the Great Lakes watershed.  It works with federal, state, tribal, municipal,
   and Canadian partners.  GLNPO pioneered an integrated, holistic approach to environmental management that targets priority problems,
   pollutants, and geographic areas to protect and restore the diversity and abundance of living resources within an ecosystem of worldwide
   importance.  Among the processes used to coordinate Great Lakes protection and restoration efforts are Lakewide Management Plans for Lakes
   Superior, Michigan, Erie, and Ontario; the Lake Huron Binational Partnership; Remedial Action Plans for the Great Lakes Areas of Concern; the
   Binational Great Lakes Program; the Great Lakes Binational Toxics Strategy; the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force and the Great Lakes
   Regional Collaboration (implementing Executive Order 13340).


   The objective of GLNPO is to promote the protection and restoration of the chemical, physical and biological integrity of the Great Lakes
   ecosystem by working in partnership with other federal, state, tribal, and local government organizations and non-governmental organizations.
   Under Section 118 of the Clean Water Act, GLNPO is to lead efforts of the United States to fulfill the requirements of the Great Lakes Water
   Quality Agreement between the U.S. and Canada.


   In addition to GLNPO, other groups in USEPA (especially Regions 2, 3, 5 and Headquarters) undertake a variety of activities in support of
   regional, national, and international programs that directly and indirectly affect the Great Lakes ecosystem.


1.2 Purpose:  The purpose of this Performance Work Statement is to provide EPA
   Region 5’s Water Division and the Great Lakes National Program Office with technical and support services through a Contractor to implement
   some of the CWA and GLNPO core programs.  These services will also be available to other EPA Regional offices, EPA headquarters, and the
   States and Tribes responsible for implementing the core water programs.

2. PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT ACTIVITIES[1]

   1. Total Maximum Daily Load Program:  Section 303(d) of the CWA requires States and Tribes develop lists of waters that do not meet water
      quality standards, even after point sources of pollution have installed the minimum required levels of pollution control technology.  The
      CWA also requires that States and Tribes develop TMDLs for waters on the section 303(d) lists.


        1. Section 303(d) List Development Support:  Current EPA regulations specify that these lists be developed every 2 years, with the next
           list due in 2010.  EPA guidance further suggests that States and Tribes consolidate the section 303(d) listing process with the
           preparation of the section 305(b) report.  Under this task, the Contractor must assist EPA in providing support to the state in the
           development of Section 303(d) lists.  The Contractor support must include the following:
           ▪     Assist in the compilation of all readily available data, especially those not collected by States and Tribes;
           ▪     Collect new data as necessary to support assessments of individual waters;
           ▪     Provide support in determining the quality and “representiveness” of water quality data not collected by the States and Tribes;
           ▪     Review and provide recommendations regarding the methodology by which available data are compared to water quality standards to
              determine compliance;
           ▪     Provide support in comparing available data to water quality standards to make use support determinations, and analysis of
              biological thresholds;
           ▪     Provide support in responding to public comments on the draft section 303(d) list and/or EPA decisions concerning 303(d) lists;
              and
           ▪     Assist EPA, States and Tribes in entering integrated report data into national data bases including the Assessment Database
              (ADB) and the National TMDL Tracking System (NTTS) and reviewing accuracy of ADB and NTTS entries.
           ▪     Assist EPA and States with development of Category 4b alternative assessments and proposals.


        2. TMDL Development Support: The Contractor must provide technical support for the development of TMDLs for the waterbodies identified
           by the EPA Contracting Officer Representative and are located within Region 5.  The issues will vary in scope and complexity and may
           require the following activities:


           ▪     Gathering and evaluating existing data from public and private sources, potentially including some collection of new data to
              fill data gaps;
           ▪     Identifying candidate analytical methods for beneficial use characterization, establishment of numeric targets, assessment of
              existing conditions, source analysis, analytical linkages between elements, estimation of loading capacity and TMDLs and
              allocation of loads or actions needed to address key sources;
           ▪     Completing assessment, analysis, and modeling efforts to establish draft TMDLs for targeted waters, including the development
              of monitoring protocols to be used to evaluate TMDL effectiveness and TMDL implementation options and plans.
           ▪     Developing TMDLs for multijurisdictional waters.
           ▪     Support EPA in outreach to and coordination with public and private stakeholders to obtain needed information and build support
              for TMDLs and implementation plans;
           ▪     Support EPA in development of social indicators and other appropriate social science tools for TMDL implementation and
              monitoring plans;
           ▪     Utilizing cost-effectiveness analysis methods to support EPA efforts to develop TMDL implementation plans;
           ▪     Assisting with TMDL peer review processes and responses to peer review comments;
           ▪     Providing assistance with GIS and mapping efforts and document preparation;
           ▪     Supporting EPA in development of documentation and analysis to support findings of compliance with the Endangered Species Act
              with respect to EPA decisions under 303(d);
           ▪     Supporting EPA’s efforts to develop plans, analysis or monitoring projects as required under TMDL lawsuit settlements; and
           ▪     Assisting with TMDL data entry to program tracking data bases including ADB and NTTS, and assisting with verification of data
              base accuracy for data already entered.
           ▪     Assisting EPA and States with design and development of TMDL implementation tracking databases and providing data entry
              support.
           ▪    Supporting EPA with development of policy and technical documents,   including editing and production support




   2. NPDES Compliance Program


        1. Permit Compliance System Data Collection and Data Entry:  The Contractor must provide technical support to EPA Region 5 in the
           collection and entry of NPDES permit tracking data via the Permit Compliance System (PCS), and EPA’s modernized replacement of PCS,
           the Integrated Compliance Information System (ICIS)-NPDES.  At the direction of EPA, the Contractor must compile required data
           elements, and otherwise support State and EPA efforts to ensure effective management of NPDES permit data in PCS and/or ICIS-NPDES.


        2. NPDES Compliance Inspections:  The Contractor must assist in performance of NPDES compliance audits and inspections, such as
           stormwater, pretreatment, permitted major and minor facilities, and Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs).  These audits and
           inspections must conform to the procedures and polices of EPA Region 5, as well as the States and Tribes applicable administrative
           procedures for performing compliance inspections.

           At the completion of each audit and inspection, the Contractor must prepare a report summarizing the results, including all the data
           and information collected during the visit and checklists used on-site.  The report must also provide recommendations related to
           additional pollution controls, including revised permit conditions, that are needed to comply with applicable permit requirements and
           applicable water quality standards. The specific facilities for which inspections will be performed by the Contractor must be
           identified by technical directive by the EPA COR, along with applicable NPDES permit number.

        3. Compliance Program Assessment Support:  The Contractor must provide technical assistance to EPA Region 5 by evaluating the compliance
           inspection protocols and procedures utilized by the States and/or Tribes.  This technical support must include participation in
           periodic meetings held by EPA and the States and/or Tribes.


        4. Permit Tracking:  The Contractor must prepare and implement a system to track the status of activities.  For individual and general
           permits assigned, this tracking system must contain at a minimum, facility name and location; permit/order number; date permit
           application received by EPA or the State, and draft permit prepared; status external review; and the date final permit is prepared.
           For TMDL and non-point source technical support activities, this tracking system must contain data activity began, date draft
           prepared and delivered to EPA, and date of delivery of final product to EPA.  This tracking system will be made available to Region 5
           at all times during the conduct of tasks assigned.

        5. Storm Water Best Management Practices (BMPs): The Contactor must survey and analyze existing data sources and/or conduct studies to
           characterize and quantify the performance of storm water BMPs.  Quantification work must address both how BMPs affect storm water
           volumes and how BMPs reduce pollutant loads.  Quantification work may include development or refinement of models to simulate the
           effects of BMPs (individually or collectively) on runoff volumes and pollutant loads.  Quantification work may also include data
           analysis and/or modeling or other characterization of the effects of BMPs on in-stream conditions.   Quantification work may also
           include data analysis and/or modeling of the effects of BMPs in combined sewer areas.

   3. Water Quality Monitoring


        1. Monitoring Design:  The Contractor must assist in the preparation and implementation of monitoring designs that maximize EPA and the
           States and Tribes ability to meet monitoring objectives with existing resources.  The Contractor must also provide technical
           assistance in developing and implementing a set of monitoring indicators (and assessment thresholds), which can be used to track the
           status and trends of water quality and to evaluate the effectiveness of management actions to improve water quality within EPA Region
           5.  The Contractor may also be asked to develop appropriate indices of biological integrity and indices for assessment of biological
           communities for different waterbody types.


        2. Quality Assurance and Data Management:  The Contractor must provide technical assistance in developing quality control procedures and
           activities which produce data of high quality which is defensible, credible and which meets applicable state-wide quality management
           plans.  The Contractor’s assistance to EPA, States and Tribes may also extend to data management to assure that all ambient
           monitoring data will be stored, checked for quality assurance, and is comparable in all applicable databases.  The Contractor may be
           asked to provide training and tools to facilitate appropriate data management.

        3. Data Analysis, Assessment, and Reporting:  The Contractor will provide technical assistance to EPA, States, and Tribes to ensure that
           data analysis and assessment is completed within a consistent science-based framework relative to States and Tribes standards, the
           protection of beneficial uses, and for tracking the effectiveness of management actions.  Data analysis and assessment activities may
           include:

               ▪ Development of a method for assessing standards attainment for 303(d) listing purposes; and
               ▪ Development of guidance to assist in 303(d)/305(b) assessments, consistent with the 303(d) listing policy.


           The Contractor must provide assistance to States and Tribes to facilitate entry of data assessment data into the assessment database
           to assist EPA with reporting of data in a timely and publicly accessible manner (brochures, fact sheets, report cards, oral
           presentations, and the Internet).

        4. Programmatic Evaluation:  The Contractor must provide assistance to EPA, States and Tribes in conducting periodic reviews of all
           aspects of their monitoring programs to determine its scientific validity, if it is being implemented as designed, and how well it
           serves the water quality decision needs of EPA, States, and Tribes.


        5. GIS Support:  The Contractor must provide GIS assistance and support in assessing water quality at the watershed scale.

        6. Monitoring Support: Provide monitoring support (i.e., ambient, point and nonpoint source) at relevant scales (i.e., assessment unit,
           watershed, state, regional, national) to EPA and, via EPA, to its partners (states, local governments, and other entities) in the
           characterization of water resource condition(s), evaluation or stressors, developing and refining water quality standards,
           development and tracking of TMDLs and other watershed-based controls. Perform actual water monitoring work on coastal, estuarine, and
           inland waters such as streams, rivers, lakes, ponds, reservoirs, and wetlands. For treatment of data see Special Conditions, Section
           3.0.

        7. EPA Volunteer Monitoring Program:  Provide technical support to the EPA volunteer monitoring program, including supporting EPA in its
           promotion of volunteer monitoring as a component of state, tribal, local or regional watershed protection projects and community-
           based environmental programs; researching, evaluating, adapting, updating or developing volunteer monitoring methods; supporting
           volunteer program use of EPA’s STORET data management system or follow-on data systems through the development of user guides or
           other educational tools; and writing and editing text for volunteer manuals, planning guides, fact sheets, and outreach materials

   4. Nonpoint Source Control Program


        1. Technical Support for the Nonpoint Source Control (NPS) Program:  EPA Region 5 provides grants under the Clean Water Act Section 319
           to States and Tribes to implement federally approved Nonpoint Source Management Programs.  These programs support a wide variety of
           activities to improve water quality including technical assistance, financial assistance, education, training, technology transfer,
           demonstration projects, and monitoring.  The Contractor must provide the following support services, as necessary, to Region 5 States
           and Tribes.


           NPS Program Development and Implementation Support:  The Contractor must provide, as necessary, technical assistance for the
           development and implementation of the NPS Program.  The NPS Program support activities may include:


           ▪     Development of program implementation plans and strategies;
           ▪     Development of program and project performance measures;
           ▪     Development of watershed-based plans;
           ▪     Assessment of NPS Program effectiveness, including determination of enforceable policies and mechanisms that are in place for
               the control of sources of nonpoint pollution and the evaluation of management measures and practices;
           ▪     Preparation of education and outreach materials necessary to support and enhance the NPS Program, including CWA Section 319
               annual reports, grant progress reports and project success stories;
           ▪     Administrative and facilitative support in planning and executing conferences;
           ▪     Facilitation support for meetings and workshops; and
           ▪     Editing and production support of policy and technical documents.

        2. Management Measure Tracking Support:  Technical support to develop and implement methods to track management measure (MM)
           implementation.  The objective of this task is to evaluate towards implementing Program Plans by documenting the extent of MM
           implementation and to integrate this information with water quality data.  MM tracking activities must include but not be limited to:
           ▪     Gathering and evaluating data from public and private sources, potentially including some collection of new data to fill data
               gaps;
           ▪     Identifying appropriate analytical methods and adapt to statewide, regional and local settings for use in tracking specified
               management measures;
           ▪     Identifying appropriate indicators and metrics concerning management measures implementation;
           ▪     Providing management measure tracking information in various formats including narrative and graphic displays of tracking data;
               and
           ▪     Providing support for the development and maintenance of tools to support the NPS Program tracking activities.


        3. Water Quality Monitoring Support:  Technical support to assist with development and implementation of a water quality monitoring
           strategy that is consistent with EPA guidance and existing monitoring programs. Specific activities may include:
           ▪     Providing for trends analysis that supports NPS Program implementation;
           ▪     Preparing guidance and provide technical assistance for NPS projects that are supported with CWA Section 319 funds and other
               related funds to provide for appropriate monitoring and performance evaluation activities;
           ▪     Providing support for public meetings, workshops and conferences, including the development of meeting materials and other
               technical assistance as necessary;
            ▪    Providing support as necessary for developing and implementing various elements of the water quality monitoring strategies,
               including the development of objectives, indicators, assessment, quality assurance and data management.


        4. Data Analysis, Database Development, Data Presentation and Reporting:  Assist with achieving full reporting requirements via the EPA
           Grants Reporting Tracking System (GRTS).  Specific tasks may include:


           ▪     Making recommendations regarding the development of a more user-friendly program-specific database module and exploring the use
               of the existing tracking systems to take into account internal reporting requirements, daily
            NPS project and work plan needs, as well as EPA’s NPS Program Plan tracking needs;
           ▪     Assistance with Training on the Business objects reporting component associated with the Grants Tracking system in addition to
               the Grants tracking system itself for Regional and State participants;
           ▪     Integrating databases and analyze information to more efficiently prepare various reports, including EPA grant progress
               reports;
           ▪     Assisting with collection and entry of information required Grants Reporting and Tracking System (GRTS) data, including data
               necessary to calculate load reductions of CWA Section 319 projects; and
           ▪     Assisting with development and maintenance of NPS web pages.



   5.  Program Management and Support for Core Water Programs: The Contractor must provide to EPA general program support to the core water
      programs.


        1. Program Management and Assessment:  This support may include the development of diagnostic materials which support the progress of
           the Core Water Programs, including programmatic guidance documents, technical support materials, and papers on key programmatic
           issues.


        2. Development and Evaluation of Data Management Tools:  The Contractor must provide program management support to EPA Region 5, States
           and Tribes by providing technical in the development and assessment of electronic data management tools which facilitate the tracking
           and entering of data into existing data systems.  For example, the Contractor maybe asked to make recommendations on the development
           of standardized reporting and work planning tools for the Core Water Programs.  Any recommendations provided by the Contractor must
           be consistent with existing EPA, State and Tribal databases and data management systems.  The Contractor must not develop information
           technology systems or software as part of the performance work statement.

           1. Data Entry:  As needed, the Contractor must assist in the data input and maintenance of new and existing program and data
              management tools.


           2. Workshop and Meeting Logistical Support:  The Contractor must provide administrative support in planning and execution of
              workshops, training sessions, symposia, and meetings related to this contract’s performance work statement.  The Contractor must
              provide support in:

           ▪     Site selection;
           ▪     On-site meeting logistics, including arranging conference facilities, lodging, audio-visual needs, and registering
               participants;
           ▪     Preparing announcements and advance information for attendees;
           ▪     Soliciting attendees and papers, and inviting speakers to make presentations;
           ▪     Logistical support for speakers and scientific/technical experts directly contributing to the requirements of the contract/task
               order performance;
           ▪     Meeting planning including administrative support in preparing EPA-developed workshop or meeting agendas;
           ▪     Developing workshop materials for all participants, including shipping technical materials for the workshops;
           ▪     Developing workshop evaluation forms; and of minutes, summary reports, and proceeding documents.
           ▪     Providing FTP sites to store and exchange workshop-related materials and products.


           3.  Educational and Outreach Support:  The Contractor must provide educational and outreach support in the form of workshops targeted
              at Federal, State, and local agency personnel, as well as involved citizens and stakeholders.  The execution of educational
              seminars described her including general workshop support as described in Section 2.6.2.2.  Also required is the development of
              focused outreach and educational materials for use in workshops and/or made available to EPA as stand-along materials and guides
              for distribution to the public.


           4.  Internet and Public Education Support:  The Contractor must support EPA’s efforts to develop effective outreach materials and
              program information for use on the EPA’s website.  Under the direction of EPA, the Contractor must maintain and enhance current
              EPA internet sites that focus on the task order and provides information and data to the public.

           5.  Graphics Support:  Under the direction of EPA, the Contractor must produce art work, photos and other graphics that enhance and
              clarify EPA’s documents, manuals, brochures and reports.  The Contractor must also provide editorial support, develop graphics and
              text materials for educational publications and develop scripts used in educational and technical videos.  No actual video
              production would be required under this contract.

   6.  Great Lakes National Program Office Support:  The objective of this task is to provide contractor assistance to support the implementation
      of the GLNPO responsibilities and strategic priorities.  This assistance must include expert environmental, business management and
      multimedia expertise that will be used to execute or assist on an array of tasks in the following areas: existing environmental laws,
      regulations, and guidance; multimedia sources of pollution (water, air, sediment); technology and economics of reducing discharges of
      pollutants individually and in combination with other sources of stress to the environment in general and the Great Lakes ecosystem in
      particular; program policy analysis and development; development and implementation of restoration and protection plans for the Great Lakes
      ecosystem; cost effectiveness and benefits analysis; information management; education and outreach; technology transfer; and pollution
      prevention.


        1. The scope of this task encompasses all professional services tasks required to support USEPA in accomplishing its responsibilities
           regarding the Great Lakes ecosystem. Support activities include the following:


        ▪ All aspects of support to the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force and Great Lakes Regional Collaboration including their successors
          and subgroups.
        ▪ Consultation on strategic planning, and performance measures and indicators;
        ▪ Program reviews and evaluations;
        ▪ Facilitation services for meetings, working groups, workshops, public forums, collaboration efforts, and team efforts;
        ▪ Alternatives analyses, cost-benefit analyses, risk analyses, modeling, and simulation of action and no-action environmental
          alternatives;
        ▪ Database and mail list design, implementation, administration, input, retrieval, and maintenance;
        ▪ Dissemination of forms, application kits, general information, publications, reports, and outreach materials by conventional and
          electronic methods;
        ▪ Collection, compilation, summarization, and organization of incoming forms, applications, or other materials;
        ▪ Collection, compilation, organization, analysis, summarization, formatting, and reporting on relevant information on national and
          Great Lakes environmental and regulatory issues;
        ▪ Expert technical review and advice on complex environmental issues derived from reports in order to address issues such as:
          modeling, environmental measurement techniques and practices, industrial processes, wastewater treatment, treatability of toxics,
          contaminated sediment monitoring and remediation techniques and practices, and cost-effectiveness of different pollution control or
          prevention technologies or methods.
        ▪ Assessment of effectiveness of public education and outreach programs and materials including brochures, pamphlets, fact sheets,
          status reports, Internet content, and software.
     ▪ Assistance with preparation of public education, technology transfer, and outreach
          programs and materials, including brochures, pamphlets, fact sheets, status reports, displays, presentations, posters, video,
          photography, Internet content, and software.
     ▪ Support for Internet site design, content, and maintenance;
        ▪ Support for remote collaboration of partners through use of Web and Video Conferencing, Collaboration (Team) Web Sites, Telephone
          Conference, and other electronic technologies.
        ▪ Compilation, categorization, and summarization of comments on proposed plans and activities.
        ▪ Development and application of techniques, methodologies, or approaches appropriate for characterizing and addressing the unique
          problems of environmental analysis at various scales such as county, state, watershed, ecoregion, lake, etc.  Appropriate
          methodologies may include application of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), modeling, spatial analysis, statistical analysis,
          economic analysis, graphical analysis, etc.
        ▪ Provide expert advice and editorial support derived from reports in order to address research and demonstration projects,
          preparation of sediment remediation alternative plans, design of environmental monitoring programs for various media, preparation of
          Quality Assurance Plans, and other subjects as needed to fulfill the mission of the Great Lakes National Program Office.
        ▪ Providing expert advice, assistance, guidance or counseling in support of USEPA’s management, organizational and business
          improvement efforts.
     ▪ Developing and editing reports and preparing them for publication.

   7. Technical Support for CWA 404, 401, and 402 Programs

       Pursuant to Section 1.3 of this Performance Work Statement the Contractor is to provide EPA’s Water Programs with technical and support
       services to help implement some of the CWA and SDWA core programs.  These services will also be available to the States and Tribes
       responsible for implementing for the core water programs.  The Contractor must provide technical staff support to perform the following
       tasks for EPA’s Wetlands 404, 401, and 402 Programs.


       The Contractor must provide expertise in determining the impact of mining on the environment.  The Contractor expert(s) must have the
       ability to work in the field, perform in high pressure situations such as providing court testimony, work closely with attorneys and
       other scientists, and communicate effectively.  The Contractor’s technical support staff may also include geologists, environmental and
       geological engineers, biologists and environmental scientists, as appropriate.  This subtask may require approval of work by a registered
       or licensed engineer.

        ▪ Review and comment on mining projects in support of a 404 or 402 permit application.  Information reviewed will include any and all
          data submitted as part of a 402 or 404 permit and Surface Mining Control Reclamation Act (SMCRA) application.  Traveling to the Corps
          or State Department of Natural Resources (DNR) office may be necessary to review information.
        ▪ Recommend methods to avoid and minimize impacts to waters of the U.S. through mine design and waste disposal methods.  Specifically,
          recommend methods to reduce coal slurry and find alternatives to impounding waters of the US for waste disposal.
        ▪ Explore the feasibility of underground injection as waste disposal option and new technologies to reduce waste, such as ways to
          reduce the water content of slurry.
        ▪ Review cost-benefit analysis to determine feasibility and practicability (costs, safety, available technologies) of alternatives for
          mines and waste disposal.
        ▪  Prepare draft fact sheets and/or provide information and/or text to EPA for preparation of draft documents relating to CWA projects
          (EPA will finalize all fact sheets for public distribution);
        ▪ Assist EPA in the preparation and distribution of agendas, briefing materials such as slides, hand-outs, visual aids, and other
          related materials;
        ▪ Attend public meetings and/or workshops in conjunction with EPA, states, and tribes to assist in answering questions and presenting
          information concerning projects; and
        ▪ Arrange for and provide training for EPA, Tribes, and states related to mining and the areas on expertise described above.


   8. Quality Assurance (QA) Requirement


    Where QA Project Plans are required, the Contractor must prepare them in conformance with EPA’s Requirements for Quality Assurance Project
    Plans for Environmental Data Operations (EPA QA/R-5).  QA performance must be in conformance with the Office of Water Quality management Plan
    of 2001.


2. SPECIAL CONDITIONS


    All work performed under this Contract must adhere to the clause EPAAR 1552.211-79 “Compliance with EPA Policies for Information Resources
    Management”, which requires adherence to all Agency directives for performance of any IRM related work.


   1. IRM Policies, Standards and Procedures [http://www.epa.gov/irmpoli8/]. The 2100 Series (2100-2199) of the Agency's Directive System
      contains the majority of the Agency's IRM policies, standards and procedures.


   2. Information Technology Standard Technical Requirements. Reports and documents must adhere to the following technical standards:


         • Microsoft Office 2003 SP
         • Adobe Acrobat Reader 8.x
         • Any additional or proposed Business or Office Applications must be approved by the Project Officer, prior to use.


   3. Environmental Information Management System (EIMS) [http://www.epa.gov/eims]. A contractor developing or enhancing an information resource
      must first conduct a thorough search of existing information resources, through means such as EIMS, to ensure development/enhancement of
      information resources does not duplicate existing information resources. If duplication is determined, the contractor must consult with the
      EPA project officer to ensure that existing information resources are optimally utilized in conjunction with information resource being
      developed/enhanced by the contractor. For any development/enhancement of information resources, the contractor must work with EPA on
      inserting/updating resource description information in EIMS.

   4. Data Standards and Environmental Data Registry (EDR) [http://www.epa.gov/edr]. Any development/enhancement of information resources
      (information resources include systems, databases, and models/web applications that utilize information in OW systems and databases), as
      well as any data products flowing to or from EPA information resources, must adhere to the data standards detailed in the EDR.

   5. Monitoring information in STORET and follow-on data systems [http://www.epa.gov/storet]. Any ambient water quality, chemical, physical,
      biological, sediment, tissue and ecological monitoring data collected as part of a contract or grant or cooperative agreement activities
      must be entered into STORET or its follow-on data systems or made available to EPA in a compatible format.

   6. National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) Indexing [http://www.epa.gov/waters].  Data related to OW programs that is required to meet the EPA
      Latitude/Longitude Standard must also be indexed to the NHD, using EPA OW standard formats available on the WATERS website. Exceptions
      include groundwater data and data that are related to points greater than two miles from the United States coastline. The WATERS website
      describes EPA tools and training that are available for NHD indexing.




3. LABOR CATEGORIES- Sample labor categories for submitting firm-fixed prices of future Task Orders are listed in the table below.  This list is
   not all inclusive.  Offeror may adjust this schedule based on the offerors’ actual business practices.  The labor categories to be offered
   must also be defined.  Please fill  in the blanks:



|TITLES                                                         |Estimated Hours               |Price                                 |Total Cost                             |
|Program Manager                                                |1512                          |                                      |                                       |
|Project Manager                                                |547                           |                                      |                                       |
|Principal Scientist/Engineer                                   |14228                         |                                      |                                       |
|GIS Specialist                                                 |879                           |                                      |                                       |
|Information Technology Specialist                              |922                           |                                      |                                       |
|Technical Editor                                               |352                           |                                      |                                       |
|Scientist/Engineer                                             |26733                         |                                      |                                       |
|Contract Specialist                                            |713                           |                                      |                                       |
|GIS/CAD                                                        |1132                          |                                      |                                       |
|Word Processor                                                 |468                           |                                      |                                       |
|Technician                                                     |1529                          |                                      |                                       |
|Word Processor                                                 |468                           |                                      |                                       |
|Clerical                                                       |621                           |                                      |                                       |
|Total Labor Hours                                              |                              |                                      |                                       |
|Other Direct Costs                                             |                              |                                      |                                       |
|Travel                                                         |                              |$40,000.00                            |                                       |
|Grand Total                                                    |                              |                                      |                                       |



                                                    Attachment 1 to Performance Work Statement
                                         Agency Personal Verification Procedures for Contractor Personnel
                                  Region 5’s Water Division Technical Support Services for Clean Water Act (CWA)



      Background: Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), signed on August 27, 2004, requires a Government-wide, common
identification standard for all Federal and contractor employees requiring physical access to Federally controlled facilities and/or logical
access to Federally controlled information systems.  The goals of HSPD-12 are to enhance safety and security, increase Government efficiency,
reduce identity fraud, and protect personal privacy.


      HSPD-12 requires that the common identification be: (a) issued based on sound criteria for verifying an individual employee's identity; (b)
strongly resistant to identity fraud, tampering, counterfeiting, and terrorist exploitation; (c) rapidly authenticated electronically; and (d)
issued by providers whose reliability has been established by an official accreditation process.


      HSPD-12 and its common identification standard require personal identity verification (PIV), background investigations, and suitability
determinations for all affected contractor and subcontractor personnel.  In accordance with FAR clause 52.204-9, Personal Identity Verification
of Contractor Personnel, contractors and subcontractors must comply with EPA’s master plan for implementing HSPD-12.

   a) Contractor Requirements for Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Contractor Personnel (including subcontractors)


        Contractor Employees Requiring Access to EPA facilities or EPA Information Systems for at Least 24 Hours a Week for at Least 6 Months:
   All individual contractor employees whose work under the contract requires on-site access to an EPA controlled facility or logical access to
   an EPA information system for at least 24 hours a week for at least 6 months a year, will be required to undergo a background investigation in
   order to receive an EPA Personnel Access and Security System (EPASS) badge.


        To begin the PIV process, the contractor should submit to the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) within ten (10) days of contract
   award or contract modification with this Attachment to Work Statement Agency Personal Verification Procedures for Contractor Personnel, @ the
   following information in electronic format via secure means using the HSPD-12 Contractor Template found at http://epa.gov/oam/. The template
   was developed to assist in the transmission of the required contractor employee information in a uniform format.  The template also contains
   drop down menus when entering data in various data cells.  Specifically, the 8 data elements, Employee Type, Program Office, Work City and
   State, Birth State, Birth Country, Citizenship, Previous Investigation and Investigative Agency, contain drop down menus.




      •    Contract number;
      •    Contract expiration date;
            • Name, address, and phone number of the Contractor Program Manager point of contact;
            • Name, date of birth, place of birth (city, state, country), and Social Security Number for all contractor employees identified
              above.  (NOTE: This information must be protected at all times, including during transmission, according to the requirements of
              the Privacy Act of 1974; see http://www.epa.gov/privacy/);
            • Employee Type, Position, Email address, Program Office, Work City and State,
            • An indication of which contractor employees are foreign nationals;
            • Name of each contractor employee claiming to have a previous, favorably adjudicated Federal background investigation on record,
              and the name of the Federal Agency that required the investigation, and the completion date.


        The contract-level COR will upload this information to the Office of Administrative Services Information System (OASIS) personnel
   security database.


        After submission of the preliminary information,  the contractor must be notified by the contract-level COR or PSB when to begin
   providing all information on Standard Form (SF) 85P, Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions, and submit the form electronically to PSB via
   the Office of Personnel Management’s (OPM’s) Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) system.  Instructions for using e-
   QIP, filling out, and submitting the SF 85P on-line, can be found at http://www.opm.gov/e-qip/reference.asp.  As part of the investigative and
   EPASS badging processes, contractor employees must be fingerprinted, photographed and provide two forms of identification, at a time and
   location specified by the COR.  These fingerprints must be sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for processing.


        Contractor employees with a favorably adjudicated Federal background investigation at the National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI)
   level or above, completed within the past 5 years and verified by EPA, do not require an additional investigation unless one is requested by
   the Contracting Officer (CO) or Contract-level Contracting Officer Representative (COR).  These employees must still be fingerprinted at a
   time and location specified by the COR.


        In order to prevent any interruption of contractor services pending the completion of the OPM background investigation, the Office of
   Administrative Services (OAS) Security Management Division (SMD) has procedures in place to issue temporary or provisional badges.


        When reporting in person, as directed by the contract-level COR, contractor employees must provide two forms of original identity source
   documents from the lists on Form I-9, OMB No.1615-0047, Employment Eligibility Verification (available at
   http://www.formi9.com/i-9.pdf) .At least one document must be a valid State or Federal Government-issued picture identification.


        Contractor Employees Requiring EPA Access for Less than 24 Hours a Week for 6 Months:  These contractor employees may be subject to the
   above requirements, and may have limited and controlled access to facilities and information systems.


        Foreign National Contractor Employees:  To be eligible to work on-site at an EPA controlled facility or to access EPA information
   systems, a foreign national contractor employee must have been admitted to the U.S. on an Immigrant Visa or a Non-Immigrant Work Authorization
   Visa.  Foreign nationals requiring access to an EPA controlled facility or EPA information system for at least 24 hours a week for at least 6
   months a year must meet the above requirements for an EPASS badge, and in addition:


            • In the Continuation Space on the SF 85P, provide the visa number, issuance location, and issuance date for the visa used for entry
              to the U.S.;
            • When presenting two identification source documents, as described above, provide at least one from List A on Form 1-9.


        When determining a foreign national contractor employee’s eligibility for an EPASS badge, EPA will consider the type of visa presented
   (immigrant vs. non-immigrant) and the reciprocity agreement between the U.S. and the individual’s country of origin.  These considerations are
   in addition to the “red flag” issues listed below.


        Screening of the SF 85P:  Information contained on the SF 85P may demonstrate that a contractor employee is not suitable to be given
   access to EPA facilities or information systems.  PSB will screen information entered on the SF 85P prior to OPM initiating the background
   investigation.  For individuals with admitted, derogatory information, issuance of an EPASS badge may be delayed pending further EPA review.
   Contractors are responsible for providing qualified personnel in accordance with requirements stated elsewhere in this contract.  Contractors
   will only be notified by the COR if any contractor employee is found unsuitable to perform as a result of a background investigation, and must
   be immediately replaced by the contractor.  The following are possible "red flags":


         • Employment - Having been fired from a previous job, or having left under unfavorable circumstances within the past 7 years (Question
           12 on the SF 85P);
         • Selective Service - Failure to register with the Selective Service System; this applies to male applicants born after December 31,
           1959 (Question 17 on the SF 85P);
         • Police Records - Within the past 7 years, any arrest, charge, or conviction that has been upheld for violent or dangerous behavior or
           a pattern of arrests that demonstrates disregard for the law (Question 20 on the SF 85P);
         • Illegal Drugs - Illegal use within the previous year, or drug manufacture or other involvement for profit within the past 7 years
           (Question 21 on the SF 85P).


   b) Returning Badges
        The contractor is responsible for ensuring that all badges are returned to the COR at the conclusion of the contract or when contractor
   on-site services are no longer required, or when an individual contractor employee leaves.


   c) Subcontracts
           These requirements must be incorporated into all subcontracts wherein employees’ work under the subcontract requires physical access
      to an EPA controlled facility or logical access to an EPA information system for 6 months or longer.


   d) Appeals
      Contractors have the right to appeal, in writing to the COR, a determination to deny or revoke a badge.  If the COR believes an appeal is
      justified, he/she will forward it to:


      U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
      Personnel Security Branch (Mail Code 3206M)
      1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
      Washington, DC 20460


Personnel Security Branch’s decision on behalf of the Agency will be final and not subject to further appeal.


   e) Definitions


         • “EPA Information System” means an information system [44 U.S.C. 3502(8)] used or operated by EPA, or a contractor of EPA or other
           organization on behalf of the Agency.


         • “EPA Controlled Facilities” means:

               ▪     EPA or Federally-owned buildings or leased space, whether for single or multi-tenant occupancy, and its grounds and
                 approaches, all or any portion of which are under the jurisdiction, custody or control of the Agency;


               ▪     EPA or Federally controlled commercial space shared with non-government tenants.  For example, if a department or agency
                 leased the 10th floor of a commercial building, the Directive applies to the 10th floor only;


               ▪     Government-owned contractor-operated facilities, including laboratories;


               ▪     The term does not apply to educational institutions that conduct activities on behalf of departments or the agency or at
                 which Federal Employees are hosted unless specifically designated as such by the sponsoring department or agency.


         • Foreign National means an individual who is not a United States citizen.
                                                    Attachment 2 to Performance Work Statement
                               Notice Regarding Prohibited Contractor Activities on Environmental Protection Agency
                                                                       And
                                                      Identification of Contractor Personnel
                                  Region 5’s Water Division Technical Support Services for Clean Water Act (CWA)


A.  Notice Regarding Prohibited Contractor Activities on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

  The Contractor must not perform any of the following activities on behalf of EPA in connection with any task order hereunder:

   1. The actual preparation of Congressional testimony.

   2. The interviewing or hiring of individuals for employment at EPA.

   3. Developing and/or writing of Position Descriptions and Performance Standards.

   4. The actual determination of Agency policy.

   5. Participating as a voting member on a Performance Evaluation Board; participating in and/or attending Award Fee meetings.

   6. Preparing Award Fee Letters, even under typing services contracts.

   7. The actual preparation of Award Fee Plans.

   8. The preparation of documents on EPA Letterhead other than routine administrative correspondence.

   9. Reviewing vouchers and invoices for the purposes of determining whether costs, hours, and work performed are reasonable.

  10. The preparation of Statements of Work, Work Assignments, Technical Direction  Documents,  Delivery  Orders,  or  any  other  work  issuance
      document under a contract that the contractor is performing or may perform.  Such a work  issuance  document,  prepared  by  an  EPA  prime
      contractor under an EPA prime contract for its subcontractor, is exempt from this prohibition.

  11. The actual preparation of responses to audit reports from the Inspector General, General Accounting Office, or other auditing entities.

  12. Preparing responses to Congressional correspondence.

  13. The actual preparation of responses to Freedom of Information Act requests, other than routine, non-judgmental correspondence.

  14. Any contract which authorizes a contractor to represent itself as EPA to outside parties.

  15. Conducting administrative hearings.

  16. Reviewing findings concerning the eligibility of EPA employees for security clearances.

  17. The actual preparation of an office's official budget request.


B.  Identification of Contractor Personnel

   1. All contractor, subcontractor, and consultant personnel must wear prominently displayed identification badges at all times when:


      • Performing task orders task orders under the Performance Work Statement; and

     • Interacting with EPA officials, federal agencies, state, tribal and local governments, business, industry, and the general public.




   2. The badge must contain the individual’s name and the company’s name and logo. The contractor must identify the office space occupied by
      contractor staff in any location that is also occupied by EPA employees with appropriate signs that include the contractor’s name.


   3. When performing tasks that require identification of themselves or when participating in any event and/or discussion (i.e., answering the
      telephone, participating as a panel member or speaker), contractor staff must verbally identify themselves as contractor personnel so that
      there is no possible appearance of being EPA officials.



-----------------------
[1] Pursuant to EPAAR 1523.703-1(e), A contract, order, work assignment or purchasing agreement that includes contractor support for meeting and
conference planning and logistics must include a green meeting and conference requirement.  The contractor is therefore required to use the
provision at 1552.223–71, “EPA Green Meetings and Conferences (MAY 2007)”, or language approved by the contracting officer that is substantially
the same as the provision, when soliciting quotes or offers for meeting and conference services on behalf of the EPA.


