Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 1 of 57

Smithsonian Institution

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE Website Development Request for Proposals
Smithsonian Solicitation Number F11SOL10045 Issue Date: September 26, 2011 Due Date: October 19, 2011 (9:00 AM local Washington DC time)
Smithsonian Institution Office of Contracting PO Box 37012, MRC 1200 Washington, DC 20013-7012

Additional information may only be obtained by contacting: Chris Crane, (202) 633-7417 (T), (202) 633-7319 (F), email: cranec@si.edu

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 2 of 57

TABLE OF CONTENTS: Introduction Part I: SOLICITATION A. General Information B. Project Description C. Submission of Proposals D. Proposal Submission Requirements E. Evaluation Procedures F. Contract Award Part II: PROPOSED CONTRACT A. Solicitation/Contract Form (SF-33) (to be inserted upon award) B. Supplies/ Services and Prices/Costs C. Statement of Work and Deliverables D. Inspection and Acceptance E. Contract Term/Proposed Project Schedule F. Contract Administrative Data G. (Intentionally Omitted) H. Special Contract Requirements I. Contract Clauses J. List of Attachments K. Representations, Certifications and Other Statement of Offerors

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 3 of 57

PART I ­ SOLICITATION GENERAL INFORMATION A. General Information 1. Through this Request for Proposals ("RFP"), the Smithsonian Institution ("Smithsonian") on behalf of its Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ("STRI") is seeking a firm to provide professional, technical, non-personal web design, production, programming and training services for the creation of the new main STRI website ("Main Website") and the Visitor Services Office Online Research Registration ("VSO ORR ") website ("VSO Website "). (For the purposes of this RFP, the Main Website and the VSO Website shall be collectively referred to herein as the "Website") . The Website is intended to revitalize the STRI image by identifying STRI as the singular source for the convergence of research and discovery in the field of tropical sciences education; and by furthering the development of STRI's new institutional brand positioning initiative/campaign and verbal branding plan in accordance with the specifications and other requirements set forth herein (collectively, "STRI Branding Plan"). The information provided by Offeror(s) in their technical and business proposals ("Proposal(s)") will provide the basis for evaluation. This solicitation for services is a highly competitive process and to assure that Proposals are given full consideration, Offerors must adhere to the requirements set forth herein. The purpose of this RFP is to provide all interested prospective offerors ("Offerors") with sufficient information to enable them to prepare and submit Proposals for consideration by the Smithsonian. All Proposals should reflect the Offeror's willingness and capability to provide professional services and a high quality product to the Smithsonian at a reasonable price. Detailed information on how to provide the Proposal Specifications can be found in Section D of Part I of this RFP, Solicitation. Other requirements and specifications can be found below. Any deviations or exceptions from the requirements and specifications of Part II of this RFP, Proposed Contract, should be specified in Offeror's proposal. 2. Inquiries. All questions regarding this RFP should be directed solely to Chris Crane at cranec@si.edu or via fax to (202) 633-7319. Offerors should not contact anyone else within the Smithsonian Institution regarding this RFP. Significant questions pertaining to this RFP will be entertained through October 6, 2011, 3:00 p.m. local Washington, DC time. All questions should reference specific sections of the solicitation including page number (s). All questions having an impact on the solicitation will be answered in writing and issued to all Offerors in the form of an amendment to this RFP. Strictly administrative questions will be entertained by phone, e-mail, or fax and may not be circulated to all Offerors. 3. The Smithsonian intends to award one (1) contract to the successful Offeror, but expressly reserves the right in its sole discretion to cancel this RFP; and/or to terminate negotiations at any time without cost to or liability to the Smithsonian. 4. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any and all Proposals received by this request, or to negotiate separately with any firm when such action shall be considered in the best interest of the Smithsonian. Notice is also hereby given of the possibility that an award may be made without discussion or after only limited negotiations. It is therefore emphasized that all Proposals should be submitted initially on the most favorable terms. 5. Offerors will not be reimbursed for any expense(s) incurred in the preparation and submission of Proposals, including without limitation costs associated with providing samples. Participation in this RFP or any resulting contract constitutes an affirmative waiver by participants of any claim to bid or proposal preparation costs. This RFP does not commit the Smithsonian to procure or contract for any services or supplies, and it shall not be construed as authorization to proceed or to be reimbursed for any of the work specified herein.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 4 of 57

6. Smithsonian shall own and hold all proprietary rights, including copyright, in this RFP, the selected proposal, and all materials and work product created or generated in the fulfillment of the successful Offeror's duties under the awarded contract. Any and all information, photographs, or materials submitted with Proposals from Offerors for consideration by Smithsonian will become the property of Smithsonian and shall not be returned. 7. RFP Disclaimer. This RFP is being used to solicit offers solely to provide the specific services and products set forth herein and the resultant contract ("Contract") shall be non-exclusive in nature. The Smithsonian may contract with any other individual or entity for similar services and products and makes no guarantees that the Offeror selected hereunder will be subsequently hired to work on any other project whether similar or dissimilar, nor shall anything in this RFP be construed to so obligate the Smithsonian. 8. A debriefing is an opportunity for you to understand how the Smithsonian Institution assessed the strengths and weaknesses of your Proposals. Requests for a debriefing must be in writing no later than three (3) calendar days after receiving notice of award. 9. Time of Essence. Offerors are hereby put on notice that time is of the essence in the performance of the Contract and that the successful Offeror shall guarantee that the final approved product shall be operational and published by January 20, 2012 (or other mutually agreed upon date) with user training commencing no later than 7 business days after the successful launch. Failure to deliver the final product to the satisfaction of the Smithsonian by the stated deadline, or any mutually agreed upon revised deadline approved in writing, shall give the Smithsonian the right to terminate the Contract without any compensation to the successful Offeror. In the event of such failure to deliver within the time prescribed herein, Smithsonian shall have the right to procure the services and/or products from an alternate source and the Successful Offeror hereby agrees to pay reasonable costs incurred by the Smithsonian in reliance on the Successful Offeror's performance hereunder. 10. Project Schedule. As part of their proposals, Offerors shall submit a proposed project schedule for completion of all work effort required herein for Smithsonian's consideration. Upon award the agreed upon schedule shall be incorporated in the contract and the Contractor shall strictly adhere to said schedule in its performance under the Contract. Contractor's schedule shall provide for an opportunity for Smithsonian to review and approve each deliverable as it is developed.

B. Project Description STRI is working with different contractors to create a new vision that expresses the concepts of "Discover, Share Knowledge". Part of this vision is to make the STRI Website an interactive educational experience into the field of tropical science research and discovery and also provide certain administrative functions. The Main Website, as presently conceived, will present visitors with questions as an entry point to the experience. Once a visitor enters a question, the answer to the question will be available as a research effort by the STRI scientific community. As part of the answer, and to deepen the visitor's engagement, the following information will be also available to the visitor in a single compelling interface: ˇ More questions related to answers given. ˇ Scientists involved in the study behind the research. ˇ Research from partners. ˇ Rich media (images, videos and audio).

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 5 of 57

The user experience will be presented as follow: ˇ Home Page. ˇ Question Landing Page. ˇ Scientific Landing Pages. ˇ Research Program Pages. ˇ Connections View. The VSO Website will include a new separate interface and application workflow in accordance with the STRI Branding Plan and current administrative information requirements. The new VSO Website shall enable and monitor the following: ˇ visitor (user) registration; ˇ registration of visits to STRI facilities; ˇ registration of research projects; ˇ generation of reports; and ˇ integration with other systems. The successful, final project will include: (i) a Main Website that enables the user to gain comprehensive insight into the study of the tropical sciences through various interactive ways of gathering information (e.g., questions, research, scientists, media, etc.) and making such information easily accessible, and; (ii) a VSO Website which provides a user friendly portal for the STRI science community to interact with the administrative functions of a world class research institution and enable STRI to have full control of visitor information and the use of STRI resources. C. Submission of Proposals

1. Method and Date of Submittal. Offerors shall submit one (1) copy of the Technical Proposal and one (1) copy of the Business Proposal in pdf format via e-mail attachment to cranec@si.edu by no later than October 19, 2011, 9:00 AM Local Washington DC Time. The e-mail shall include the following subject line: Response to STRI RFP#F11SOL10045 from... [Add name of company]. Each attachment shall be labeled, Technical Proposal and Business Proposal, respectively. Proposals should be identified by including the following information in the attachment: Firm's Name: Smithsonian Institution Solicitation No.: F11SOL10045 Location: Washington, DC Project: Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute's Website Development RFP Due Date: October 19, 2011, 9:00 AM Local Washington DC Time

2.

Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Proposals.

a. Any Proposal received at the e-mail address designated above after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the Proposal would not unduly delay the award, and: (i.) It was sent by e-mail and it is determined by Smithsonian that the late receipt was due solely to mishandling by the Smithsonian after its receipt at the Smithsonian; (ii.) It is the only proposal received; or

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 6 of 57

(iii.) The Contracting Officer makes a determination that it is in the best interests of the Smithsonian to consider the Proposal. b. A proposal modification resulting from the Smithsonian Contracting Officer's request for final proposal revisions received after the time and date specified in the request will not be considered unless received before award and the late receipt is due solely to mishandling by the Smithsonian after receipt at the Smithsonian installation, or the Contracting Officer makes a determination that it is in the best interests of the Smithsonian to consider the modification. c. E-mails should request a receipt of acknowledgment and Smithsonian will endeavor to respond promptly to such requests during normal business hours. The only acceptable evidence to establish the time and date a proposal, late proposal or modification was sent by e-mail is an e-mail from the Smithsonian acknowledging receipt. Smithsonian shall not be responsible for any failure of any transmission of any e-mail sent to it and shall only be responsible for receipt of those e-mails that were acknowledged by it. d. The only acceptable evidence to establish the time/date of receipt at the Smithsonian Office of Contracting is the time/date of the e-mail received by the Office of Contracting and maintained by said office. e. Proposals may be withdrawn by e-mail, written notice sent by hand delivery, U.S. Mail or commercial carrier and received by Chris Crane of the Smithsonian Office of Contracting any time before award. An Offeror may withdraw proposals in person or by an authorized representative, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before award. f. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Smithsonian may be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.

D.

Proposal Submission Requirements 1. General.

a. Offerors shall submit one (1) copy of the Technical Proposal and one (1) copy of the Business Proposal as a pdf file attached to an e-mail to cranec@si.edu. The e-mail shall reference the following in the subject line: Response to STRI RFP#F11SOL10045 [Add name of company]. Proposals shall be submitted in a minimum font size of Times New Roman 11. The Technical and Price Proposals shall conform to the prescribed format and submission requirements outlined herein. Offerors whose Proposals deviate from these requirements may be disqualified at the discretion of the Smithsonian. b. The Smithsonian reserves the right to enter into negotiations with any or all of the Offerors as it deems to be in the best interest of the Smithsonian. However, Offerors are advised that award may be made without discussion or any contact concerning the proposals received. Therefore, Proposals should be submitted initially on the most favorable terms which the Offerors can submit to the Smithsonian Institution, without assumption that they will be contacted or afforded an opportunity to clarify, discuss, or revise their Proposals. c. Proposals, modifications, or withdrawals sent via express or regular mail, fax or other method not specified in Section C. above, will not be considered.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 7 of 57

d. All Proposals shall state that offers are valid for a period of at least ninety (90) days following submission. 2. Technical Proposal. Technical Proposals shall address the requirements contained in the Scope of Work, Specifications and other requirements of the RFP and shall contain sufficient details (without reference to cost or price) to permit a complete and accurate evaluation of the proposal from a strictly technical viewpoint. When preparing their technical proposal, Offerors should consider the evaluation criteria set forth in Section E, against which the proposals will be evaluated. All proposals must include each of the following elements listed below to be considered complete (failure to furnish clear, concise, and complete information requested in this RFP may be cause for withdrawal of a proposal from further consideration): a. Plan of Accomplishment. Offerors shall provide the following as part of their Plan of Accomplishment: i. Offeror shall provide a narrative strategy which clearly relays its creative, technical and educational approach for effectively performing the services and providing the products required herein. Approaches to client communication, budget control, and schedule maintenance must be discussed; ii. A detailed project schedule for completing the work required hereunder by the stated project deadline (or by an alternative date, if such stated project deadline is not practicable). This schedule shall indicate all milestones of the project and shall provide for delivery to the Smithsonian of all materials, including without limitation the final website and training, and include all requisite Smithsonian reviews and approvals; b. Past Performance. Offerors must demonstrate experience in similar projects in scope and scale. Each Offeror should provide a minimum of three (3) examples of comparable work performed by the Offeror's company, preferably in the past three (3) years, including: i. the client's name for whom the work was done, ii. a brief summary of the work performed, iii. contact information and web addresses of clients for references, iv. the estimated dollar value of the work, v. time frame and professional effort involved, vi. project manager and assigned staff, and vii. the results achieved. The proposal should include the number of years the Offeror has been in business, and may include information about the relevant capabilities of the Offeror that are not otherwise evident in the comparable work summaries described herein. In addition, Proposal should include work samples or links to Offeror's web sites, resumes, references and any other supporting documentation. Samples should be from the last three years and not exceed five (5) items. c. Key Personnel. Offerors should submit resumes for the primary individuals who will represent the successful Offeror and work with Smithsonian staff to provide the services and products described herein. Offeror's proposal should include sufficient information to identify and describe the previous experience and effectiveness of its Key Personnel with similar projects and their current capacity

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 8 of 57

to provide the services offered. Proposals should also include a list of tasks that will be subcontracted, if any, by your firm and a prospective list of subcontractors. 3. Business Proposal. Contractor must submit a complete and comprehensive itemized budget for all services requested including a final, firm fixed contract price and a complete accounting of all costs. The firm fixed contract price should also include a payout schedule, if different from the one proposed in Part II, Section B.1. The firm fixed contract price will be evaluated as a total cost, including all labor, materials, travel and lodging. 4. Rejection of Proposals.

a. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any and all proposals received as a result of this request. Noncompliance with the conditions of this RFP may result in disqualification of the Offeror. b. The Smithsonian reserves the right to reject any proposal received at the location after the time and date specified on the cover page of this solicitation. c. The Smithsonian may reject an offer as non-responsive if it is materially unbalanced as to prices for the requirements. An offer is unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly less than cost for some work and prices which are significantly overstated for other work. d. The Smithsonian reserves the right to cancel this solicitation in its entirety.

E.

Evaluation Procedures

1. Proposals shall be evaluated in accordance with the following criteria being applied to the information requested in section D: a. Plan of Accomplishment (including project schedule with creative and technical approaches to the Statement of Work). b. Firm's Experience and Past Performance. c. Business Proposal (including final firm fixed contract price, costs and itemized budget). 2. Price/Technical Proposal Trade-off and Award Decision/Best Value

a. Contract(s) will be awarded to Offeror(s) the Smithsonian Institution determines can best meet the identified requirements based upon the Offeror's proposal(s). The Smithsonian Institution reserves the right in all cases to be the sole judge determining whether a respondent meets the evaluation criteria. A firm must be technically acceptable in order to be considered for award. b. It is anticipated a contract will be awarded to the Offeror(s) whose proposal when evaluating both the technical and business proposals is most advantageous and presents the best value to the Smithsonian Institution. Award of this Contract shall be made to the responsive, responsible Offeror(s) whose combined cost and technical proposal is in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, determined to be the most advantageous and in the best interests of Smithsonian Institution. c. Each Offeror's price shall be evaluated for reasonableness to determine the Offeror's understanding of the work effort and the ability to perform hereunder. The existence of

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 9 of 57

adequate price competition will support a determination of reasonableness. This includes both original submissions and best and finals, if required. d. Since the evaluation of the price will represent a portion of the total evaluation, it is possible that an Offeror might not be selected for award because of unreasonable, unrealistic, incomplete, inaccurate, or non-current price proposal information. e. In conducting the evaluation, the Smithsonian may use data provided by the Offeror in its proposal as well as data obtained from other sources. While the Smithsonian may elect to consider data obtained from other sources, the burden of providing thorough and complete information rests with the Offeror. f. In conducting the evaluation, the Smithsonian reserves the right to award the Contract to an Offeror based on any Contingency Plan submitted by Offeror, as provided for in Section D.2.c above. 3. Complete Information. Failure to furnish complete information requested in the RFP may cause the Offeror to be judged non-responsive and immediately be removed from further consideration.

F.

Contract Award

1. The Smithsonian reserves the right to (a) reject any or all offers if such action is in the best interest of the Smithsonian, (b) accept other than the lowest offer, and (c) waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 2. The Smithsonian reserves the right to award a contract or contracts on the basis of initial offers received, without discussions or any other contact concerning the proposals received. Therefore, each initial offer should contain the Offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. 3. A written award or acceptance of offer mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful Offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Smithsonian Institution may accept an offer, whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless written notice of withdrawal is received before award. Negotiations conducted after receipt of an offer do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Smithsonian Institution. 4. This request does not commit the Smithsonian to pay any preparation costs nor to make reimbursements for any of the cost associated with a response to this request.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 10 of 57

PART II: PROPOSED CONTRACT In the Event of an Award

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 11 of 57

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE WEBSITE DEVELOPMENT REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS B. SUPPLIES/SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS B.1 Unless otherwise specified in the attached award, the successful Offeror ("Contractor") shall perform all professional services for the development and production of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute website ("Website") and provide all deliverables set forth in Section C and elsewhere in this solicitation for a firm fixed Contract price of: [ADD CONTRACT PRICE HERE] The agreed upon contract price shall be payable as follows: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ 10% upon delivery and acceptance of a revised Project Schedule; 30% upon delivery and acceptance of the public Main Website launch; 25% upon delivery and acceptance of the final Main Website launch; 25% upon delivery and acceptance of final VSO Website launch; 10% upon satisfactory completion of user training.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the final firm-fixed Contract price shall be determined by Smithsonian, in its sole discretion, and stated on the attached award in Section A of this Contract. B.1.2. This firm-fixed Contract price shall include, but not be limited to, all direct labor, materials, and other direct costs (i.e. communication, reproduction, etc.) as well as all indirect costs (overhead and G&A expenses), travel and per diem, communication, delivery, subcontractor costs, commissions, and any other profit and expenses for which the Contractor expects payment. B.2 Travel and Per Diem

B.2.1 Contractor's firm fixed price shall include transportation costs and travel allowances (per diem) of personnel authorized to undertake out-of-town, overnight travel under this contract, if applicable. Such transportation costs WILL NOT be reimbursed separately. B.2.2 No profit or fee shall be included on travel and per diem expenses included in the firm fixed price. C. STATEMENT OF WORK AND DELIVERABLES C.1 General Functionality/Project Scope The successful, final project shall be in accordance with the STRI Branding Plan and consist of two components: (i) the Main Website; and (ii) the VSO Website.
C.1.1 Main Website. The Main Website shall serve as an interactive, user friendly website that is designed and programmed to enable users to gain comprehensive insight into the study of the tropical

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 12 of 57

sciences through easily accessible information provided by a single compelling interface. The interface will provide information from various sources, including the following: ˇ questions initiated by the user; ˇ scientists involved in the study behind the research; ˇ research partners; and ˇ rich media (images, videos and audio). The user experience is currently structured to be presented as follows: ˇ Home Page; ˇ Question Landing Page; ˇ Scientific Landing Pages; ˇ Research Program Pages; and ˇ Connections View. (see also Appendix A, attached hereto) C.1.2 VSO Website. The VSO Website shall serve as an interactive, user friendly website that is designed and programmed to enable the STRI scientific community to access the STRI's administrative functions. The VSO website shall be a place where visitors register: ˇ user profiles; ˇ research project requests; ˇ visit requests to STRI facilities in connection with projects, field courses and workshops; ˇ facility requirements for visitor and project requests (e.g., housing, equipment, etc.) In addition, the VSO Website shall allow STRI to monitor and manage the registration process, including, the following: ˇ revision and evaluation of requests; ˇ application of different actions to each request (e.g., approvals, user corrections, rejections, etc.) and comments documenting each action taken; ˇ ability to generate notifications to STRI staff and visitors about the progress of each request; ˇ ability for staff to create, save and export reports through a report generation engine for various STRI units detailing usage by facility, usage by housing, requests per month, etc.; and ˇ an open API or Web Service to allow integration/communication with other systems. The initial scope of the VSO Web component shall replace the look and feel of the current VSO ORR website at https://visitors.stri.si.edu with a graphical user interface design compatible with the Main Website without modifying administration or backend functionality. In addition, Contractor shall also analyze, design, create and program a VSO Website database structure for the VSO Website to satisfy the current visiting user and administrative service needs.

C.2 General Requirements C.2.1 The Contractor shall be solely responsible for analyzing, designing, producing and programming the Website, including database migration and training STRI personnel in the use of the Website, all to STRI's specifications and satisfaction as specified in this Section C and elsewhere herein. All deliverables, including the end product shall be subject to the STRI's final written approval.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 13 of 57

C.2.2 Contractor shall work closely with STRI staff to conceptualize and understand the site and further identify user scenarios, including identifying other means of exploiting the www medium. The Contractor shall perform all production work, including programming and incorporation of all site components and creation of all links. The Contractor shall designate a project manager who shall coordinate with STRI, oversee all requested changes, provide quality control, and act as a liaison with STRI. C.2.3 STRI staff will provide any scientific research and materials necessary, including any available STRI-owned photographs or graphical assets, for the Website, including the content structure, the desired graphic user interface and overall website user experience documentation. C.3 FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS The completed Website shall have the following functionality: # 1 1.1 1.2 Requirement Design and implementation of Main Website. The Main Website shall be implemented using Acquia Drupal The Contractor shall obtain approval from STRI for the use of any Drupal Modules not included in the base Acquia installation. The website shall support multiple languages: English and Spanish This website shall have a global header and navigation that shall be used for branding and consistency element on separate systems. The navigation links of the header shall be managed by Drupal. This website shall have a footer bar featuring a visual breadcrumbs trail, storing a thumbnail of each page visited, prominent links to social media sharing and donations page and other areas for dynamic contents such as field notes and publications that shall display the most recent aggregated news, most recent publications from STRI researchers, etc. The website content shall be organized based on "Scientific Questions" the answer SI Comments This shall replace the website at http://www.stri.si.edu http://acquia.com/ Modules shall be stable and with an active community for support

1.3 1.4

Additional languages may be supported using Google Translate The Links in this header shall go to the main pages of the main sections of the website, research, scientists, news, etc. See Attachments.(11.1 - 11.5) The visual breadcrumbs, the social media sharing and donations buttons are a requirement. Other content shall be configurable using Drupal. See Attachments. (11.1 ­ 11.5)

1.5

1.6

The linking mechanism for related content shall be flexible enough to link

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 14 of 57

1.7

1.8

of those questions shall link to related content to the questions (more Questions, a Scientists page, a Research page, etc) The Homepage shall feature a sliding animation of questions and related background images along with quick facts as an entry point. The Questions Landing page shall have text and image/video along with links to research projects, sites, scientist and information related to the "question".

various types of content.

See Attachment 11.1

Background shall be related to the question. All content is associated through a content management system that can match the most relevant content segments dynamically. See Attachment 11.2 See Attachment 11.3

1.9

1.9.1

1.10

The Scientist Landing page shall have some biographical information with links to the scientist bio page, a text explaining the current research, a list of related partnerships and publications, and the related research "questions". The Scientist Bio page shall have all related research partners, biographical information and publications, blogs, news, etc. The Research Landing page shall feature a list of the research partners, participating scientists, "scientific questions" and Introductory text.

Exact contents for the bio page are variable.

The central portion of the Research Landing page are variable depending on the research (video, image, map, etc). See Attachments 11.4 for layout reference

1.10.1

1.11

1.12

1.13

The Research Science page shall feature text, video, "Scientific Questions" and research partners related to the research. All pages shall have a connection view available, that enables users to view all the relationships between themes, scientist, research, sites, question and related items in a way similar to a Visual Thesaurus. The News Landing page shall serve as entry point to STRI related news and blogs, which shall be aggregated from STRI website as well as selected external sources. All the static content throughout the website shall be displayed using a general

http://www.visualthesaurus.com See Attachment 11.5

A caching mechanism shall be used to minimize server load

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 15 of 57

1.14

1.15

1.16

1.17

1.18

content page which needs to be flexible so different layouts options can be accommodated and controlled. Site statistics shall use Google Analytics and WebTrends to gather data and report on site statistics on all pages. The website shall be Search Engine Optimized (SEO). It shall leverage heading meta tags, emphasis tags, keywords, robots.txt and XML sitemap file. The website shall have functionality to add, update and delete web analytic tags to individual pages and groups of pages or selected pages for capturing web visitor metrics in static, dynamic and streaming video information. All pages shall be "printer friendly". Images, pages, papers and presentations shall be high quality printable. This website shall be mobile-friendly.

It shall be designed to accommodate functionalities such as meta-tags, smart data source, smart data collector, smartview, query parameters and custom parameters using web log and specific application log files. The website shall have links or embedded plug-ins for opening and viewing these documents. We are not requiring the creation of mobile applications, but that the design is such that mobile applications can easily pull the information from it.

1.19 1.20

The website shall have the means to present GIS content. Drupal administration sections and all login mechanisms shall utilize SSL encryption. Design and Implementation of the VSO Website Website shall be accessible only through SSL encrypted connection. Website backend code shall be PHP 5.2.10+ compatible.

Secure Pages and Secure Pages Hijack Prevention modules advised.

2 2.1 2.2

This shall replace the website at https://visitors.stri.si.edu

2.3

VSO Website database schema shall be implemented using MySQL 5.x.

2.4 2.5 2.6

Contractor shall migrate the current Database to the new Schema Website shall allow user to register, log in and create and edit personal profiles. Website shall provide an interface to reset/change the user password in case the

Contractor shall propose a framework or methodology, along with data supporting the recommendation, for approval by STRI staff. Proposal of other Databases Management System shall be clearly justifiable with data supporting the advantages over MySQL for this project The current Database runs on a PostgreSQL 7.4 server instance

Contractor shall propose mechanism to be used along with data supporting the

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 16 of 57

user forgets their login credentials. 2.7 Website shall allow users to register Research Projects request associated to their personal profiles. Website shall allow users to send invitations to people to participate in their personal research projects. Website shall allow users to register visit requests associated to their personal profiles. A visit request shall be associated to a research project. Website shall allow users to register the facilities they will use per visit request. Website shall allow users to register their requirements for housing per visit request. Website shall allow users to register their requirements (space, equipment, etc) for STRI Facilities per Visit request. Website shall implement a user permission system to allow or deny access to every parts and actions in the system. Website shall provide User Dashboard where the user shall have information about the progress of each requests and shortcuts to different actions per request (create, edit, etc). Website shall provide and Administration Dashboard where the user (STRI Staff) shall have the ability to manage all requests (edit, approve, cancel, decline, etc), users and do data maintenance of all relevant entities of the database. Website shall provide search functionality in both administration and user interfaces.

recommendation for approval by STRI staff

2.8

2.9

2.10 2.11 2.12

2.13

2.14

Available information and actions to be controlled by the permission system based on the logged in user permissions.

2.15

Available information and actions to be controlled by the permission system based on the logged in user permissions.

2.16

Search options shall be available to narrow specific needs (Visits, Research Projects, Users, date range, status, etc.)

2.17 2.18

Website shall provide links for help content describing how to use the website. VSO Website reports shall be created using Crystal Reports. Website shall have an automated e-mail messaging mechanism to inform users (STRI Staff, visitors) about the progress of the requests. The messages will be automatically triggered based on the actions executed by the user in the system (request submittal, request approval, etc).

2.19

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 17 of 57

2.20

Website shall provide a mechanism to extend functionality. Website shall provide an interface to interact with other applications.

A Plug-ins or Module system to be proposed by Contractor An API or Web Service The purpose of the interface is to share information and execute limited actions.

2.21

3 3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5 3.6

General Website Requirements Develop the web sites with security in mind. The system itself shall meet all standard security requirements and all content shall be secure from any internal and or external threats per SI policies. All software code shall be annotated according to software engineering best practices and security. OWASP recommendations shall be followed to prevent cross-site scripting, SQL injections among others. The development shall include functionality and safeguards for compliance with the Children's Online Privacy and Protection Act (COPPA) All pages shall be in compliance with the appropriate Smithsonian policies and applicable local, state and federal laws. The site shall support a minimum 1024x768 target screen resolution. The site shall support Internet Explorer 8+ and Firefox, Chrome and Safari for PC and Mac. Sites shall degrade gracefully on older or nonstandard browsers or when functionality is not available. The Contractor shall obtain approval from STRI for the use of any plug-ins.

For both STRI and VSO Website

OWAST website provides a list of top vulnerabilities from which the system is required to be protected.

US and Panama

3.7

3.8

Plug-ins shall be used judiciously. Ones already use with some frequency on STRI sites are Flash and Windows Media.

C.4 NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS The completed Website shall have the following non-functional requirements: # Requirement SI Comments

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 18 of 57

# 1

Requirement Work produced under this contract shall conform to the Smithsonian's high level system architecture(s), centrally supported web infrastructure, security infrastructure, and comply with the Smithsonian's Technology Reference Model (TRM), SD-940-01. The sites shall be hosted on SI's centrally supported web infrastructure and shall conform to the technology standards of that infrastructure. The Contractor shall provide design documentation.

SI Comments

1.1

1.2

The cumulated, approved design submittals are sufficient to serve as system design documentation / meet this requirement Sitemap flowcharts and wireframes 1 including introductory page(s), orientation and sequences (what's in the Website and how to navigate it) Content planning and design templates, including page layouts, color schemes, fonts, navigation buttons common to all parts of the website(s) High-level information on how the site shall be / is developed ­ technologies to be used, use of tables, images, naming standards, directory standards, CSS, includes, accessibility / usability, search capability, dynamic content, databases (if used), any special functionality)

1.3

The product shall be tested to verify that it functions as intended and that all requirements are met.

1

A skeletal rendering of every click-through possibility on the site - a text-only "action," "decision" or "experience" model, whose purpose is to maintain the flow of your specific logical and business functions by identifying all the entry and exit points users shall experience on every page of the site(s).

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 19 of 57

# 1.4

Requirement The Contractor shall provide a test procedures document.

SI Comments To include: ˇ How testing shall be used to ensure that the delivered product meets SI's requirements and functions as designed ˇ What shall be tested ˇ How testing shall be performed ˇ Pass / fail criteria ˇ Test deliverables (e.g. test report, including discrepancies identified during testing). ˇ Test scripts (procedures) ˇ Test environment The intent of this document is to describe and provide a test framework and set of test steps that can be reexecuted by the developer to validate functionality and/or after changes are made and by SI, at it's option, for acceptance purposes. e.g. test report, including discrepancies identified during testing

1.5

The Contractor shall provide test results showing successful testing of all critical functionality.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 20 of 57

# 1.6

Requirement The Contractor shall provide a system configuration document.

SI Comments Target audience is web / web application administrator(s) Concise (document shall not be large), detailed information on how the site is installed and configured on the web / web application servers, including any and all required web server settings, database connection methods and connection strings, and any of initialization file(s) or other critical files Shall the site be moved to different servers or a different file location in the current environment, it shall be possible for a central SI system administrator, who is not familiar with the site, to reference this document and have all the information necessary to get it up and running quickly. (Then use the test spec / test scripts to validate)

1.7

The Contractor shall provide user documentation.

Detailed instructions for SI staff on how to access, add, delete, or modify content and/or otherwise modify the site(s). This document shall be targeted to the unit site owner and it shall be assumed that staff maintaining the content do not have a technical background

1.8

The Contractor shall provide all source files including high-resolution (nonderivative) master-image files and all software code to SI. All code shall comply with software engineering best practices. ˇ ˇ ˇ Implement HTML5 and CSS3. Javascript and CSS is minified and compressed for Page Load Web graphics used for layout are condensed into CSS Sprites to minimize page load

1.9

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 21 of 57

# 1.10

Requirement Reasonable effort shall be made to accommodate users with visual, hearing, or mobility impairments, and other disabilities.

SI Comments All images shall have properly coded alt tags. Text shall employ adequate contrast and size for readability. The use of technologies such as http://www.browsealoud.com/ is encouraged. The Contractor shall avoid superimposing text over background images. The line length for blocks of text shall stay in the 55-75 character range. Good faith efforts shall be made to meet all other accessibility standards set forth in Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (§ 1194.22) and the W3C priority 1, 2, and 3 checkpoints for web content accessibility. SI Shall approve any exceptions to these standards.

C.5. Deliverables/Project Schedule SI requires the following deliverables ("Deliverables") be made in accordance with the following Project Schedule. All Deliverables shall be submitted no later than the dates specified below, unless otherwise agreed in writing by Smithsonian. Work shall begin no later than one (1) week after a "Notice to Proceed" is issued by the Smithsonian. PROJECT SCHEDULE Deliverables 1. Attendance at kick-off meeting. 2. An overall Project Schedule that meets the goals of the project. Within this schedule, activities concerning system planning, analysis, design, development, testing, documentation, user training, and implementation shall occur that reflect review and coordination efforts with appropriate STRI staff. The Contractor's schedule shall include one week for

Delivery Date One (1) week after Notice to Proceed. One (1) week after Notice to Proceed.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 22 of 57

each review after complete submittal 3. Project Status report: User interviews, discussion and brainstorming documents. Further identify user scenarios, refine and define goals and requirements. 4. Initial Acquia Drupal installation and configuration.

Weekly through project completion.

Two (2) weeks after Notice to Proceed. Four (4) weeks after Notice to Proceed.

5. Content definition document identifying all content types required for each page template. ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Home Page Question Landing Pages Scientists Pages Research/Features Pages

Final website design for Main Website and initial VSO Website user interface.

6. Page Template Implementation ˇ main navigation home page bioinformatics home page template ˇ Scientists pages: ˇ Academic programs: ˇ Programs features: o water o carbon o Who we are? 7. Initial template implementations to replace current VSO Website user interface: a. Login; b. user registration form; c. research project registration form; d. visit registration form; e. profile form; f. visitor dashboard; g. visit search and review views; and h. project search and review views. 8. Drupal Module inventory and selection criteria Test report (results): document showing successful testing of all critical functionality

November 11, 2011

November 25, 2011 December 14, 2011 January 6, 2012

January 6, 2012

January 13, 2012.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 23 of 57

9. Final, approved Main Website launched to the public. Complete copy of the product, including all documentation, master images, audio and/or video, and source code. (Two copies on CD ROM (or DVD ROM if files do not fit on a single CD). 10. VSO Website story boards. VSO Website database analysis. 11. VSO Website wireframes. STRI website template implementations for older websites. 12. VSO Website database schema. 13. Final VSO website design. Completion of STRI website administration interface. Test report (results): document showing successful testing of all critical administration functionality. 14. Final, approved Main Website launch. STRI website user documentation. Complete copy of the final product, including all documentation, master images, audio and/or video, database and source code (Two copies on CD ROM (or DVD ROM if files do not fit on a single CD). 15. Commencement of STRI website user training. 16. VSO Website test environment installation. Test report (results): document showing successful testing of all critical functionality for VSO Website. 17. VSO Website migration and data integrity reports. Test report (results): document showing successful testing of all critical functionality. 18. Final, approved VSO Website launch. VSO Website user documentation.

January 20, 2012.

February 20, 2012

March 12, 2012

April 13, 2012 May 21, 2012

June 4, 2012

June 11, 2012 June 22, 2012

July 13, 2012

August 20, 2012

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 24 of 57

Complete copy of the finished product, including all documentation, master images, audio and/or video, database and source code. (Two copies on CD ROM (or DVD ROM if files do not fit on a single CD). 19. Warranty period: Contractor shall provide six months of technical assistance and troubleshooting after complete acceptance of all product deliverables and full production launch of the website. 20. Commencement of VSO Website user training. One (1) week after successful VSO Website launch.

C.6. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE Work on the Website shall take place off-site at the Contractor's offices, and on-site at Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, as needed. The Contractor shall be expected to meet with the Smithsonian for at least 6 on-site meetings at Smithsonian locations. Other meetings will take place through Video/Tele Conference for formal briefings and updates. C.7 OWNERSHIP STRI shall have ownership of all source files created by Contractor, including images, audio, video, related code, documentation, site files, and content used in the finished product. C. 8 EQUIPMENT The Contractor shall provide all equipment (hardware and software) needed to complete the tasks covered by this SOW. C.9 CONTRACTOR AVAILABILITY The Contractor shall be available via teleconference or in person, if required, during normal business hours (8:30 a.m. ­ 5:30 p.m. EST) for support and inquiries during design, production, launch and warrantee periods. On occasion it may be necessary to work outside normal business hours. All Panamanian and US Government holidays shall be observed. Contractor staff meetings shall be limited to no more than one hour per week. The cost of any additional Contractor staff meetings shall be borne entirely by the Contractor. C.10 Travel The Contractor shall be required to travel to STRI for 6 meetings during the Term in performance of its services hereunder. The costs of such travel shall be included in Contractor's

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 25 of 57

firm-fixed price. Any additional travel required by STRI shall be reimbursed by STRI and shall be governed by Pub .L. 99-234 and FAR part 31 set forth in Section B hereto. D. Inspection and Acceptance D.1. Acceptance shall be subject to Smithsonian's satisfaction and based on the following criteria: 1. Successful test of all required and proposed functions and STRI/SI security policies. 2. Delivery of the complete, accepted, product and documentation sent to STRI as required. The Contractor is required to provide the deliverable(s) to the Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR). All deliverables shall be delivered to STRI on time according to the agreed upon project schedule. All deliverables shall require Smithsonian approval and acceptance. Deliverables shall be approved and accepted or rejected by the COTR D.2. All Deliverables shall be of an acceptable quality addressing the requirements clearly and professionally. Unless otherwise specified in subsequent modifications hereto, the Smithsonian will have a minimum of ten (10) working days to determine the acceptability of all deliverables. Any deficiencies shall then be corrected by the Contractor and incorporated into the final deliverable. Deliverables, will be accepted when all discrepancies, errors, or other deficiencies have been resolved to the Smithsonian's satisfaction. All notifications of rejection will be accompanied by specific justification or substantiation of the reason(s) for rejection. D.3. Neither the Smithsonian's review, approval or acceptance of, nor payment for, any of the service or supplies required under this resultant shall be construed as a waiver of any rights under this Contract or of any cause of action arising out of the performance of this Contract. Furthermore, the Contractor shall be and remain liable to the Smithsonian in accordance with applicable law for all damages to the Smithsonian caused by the Contractor's negligent performance of any of the services or arising from the supplies furnished under this Contract. D.4. Acceptance by the Smithsonian does not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for correction of errors or omissions that may arise after such acceptance if the errors and omissions clearly are a fault in Contractor's performance. D.5. All material produced by the Contractor under this Contract shall become the sole property of the Smithsonian Institution's Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. E. CONTRACT TERM/PROPOSED PROJECT SCHEDULE The Contract term ("Term") shall begin upon full execution of the resultant Contract and extend until Contractor's satisfactory completion of all work effort required hereunder, subject and pursuant to the Project Schedule. If such work effort will deviate from the Project Schedule proposed by Smithsonian in Section C.5., Offerors shall submit a proposed project schedule for completion of all work effort required herein for Smithsonian's consideration. Upon award the agreed upon schedule shall be incorporated in the Contract and Contractor shall strictly adhere to

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 26 of 57

said schedule in its performance under the Contract. Failure to do so shall be considered a breach of this Contract. F. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA F.1 Contract Management. Notwithstanding the Contractor's responsibility for total management during the performance of the contract, the administration of the contract will require maximum coordination between the STRI and the Contractor. The following individuals will be the Smithsonian points-of-contact during the performance of the contract. F.2 Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer will effect all contract administration. Communications pertaining to contractual administrative matters shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer. No changes in or deviation from the scope of work shall be effected without a written modification to the contract executed by the Contracting Officer authorizing such changes. F.3 Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR)

F.3.1 The Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR) for this contract shall be: Francisco Rivera Information Technology Director Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute MRC 580 Panama (507) 212 8107 USA 202 633 4700 XT 28107 riferaf@si.edu The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) shall act for and on behalf of the Contracting Officer in the administration of the Contract with respect to: resolution of issues that may arise between the Contractor and the Smithsonian Institution, in connection with such matters as acceptability of workmanship and other technical requirements; evaluation on an overall basis of the acceptability of workmanship and Contractor's compliance with technical requirements; and the approval and acceptance of work performed under the contract. F.3.2 The COTR does not have the authority to, and may not issue any technical direction which: (i) constitutes an assignment of additional work outside the existing specifications/scope of work; (ii) constitutes a change; (iii) causes an increase or decrease in the total contract cost, the fixed fee (if any), or the time required for contract performance; (iv) changes any of the expressed terms, conditions, or specifications of the contract; or (v) interferes with the Contractor's right to perform the terms and conditions of the Contract. F.3.3 All authorities not herein delegated are reserved to the Contracting Officer. F.3.4 The Contractor shall make available such records, reports and facilities as may be required to carry out this assignment.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 27 of 57

F.4 Authorities. The Contractor is advised that only the Contracting Officer can change or modify the terms of this contract or take any other action that obligates the Smithsonian Institution and then such action must be set forth in a formal modification to the Contract. The authority of the COTR is strictly limited to the specific duties set forth in his/her letter of appointment, a copy of which will be furnished the Contractor. Contractors who rely on direction from persons other than the Contracting Officer (or a COTR acting within the strict limits of his responsibilities as set forth in his/her letter of appointment) do so at their own risk and expense, as such actions do not bind the Smithsonian Institution contractually. Any questions concerning the authority of a Smithsonian Institution employee to direct the Contractor should be referred to the Contracting Officer or COTR. F.5 Contractor's Contact Information and Key Personnel

F.5.1 Contractor's Authorized Representative The following person shall be contracted in the event of award for prompt contract notification and administration concerning specifications, schedules, and other necessary contract matters: Name & Title Street Address City, State, Zip Telephone Fax E-mail F.5.2 Contractor's Key Personnel The Contractor shall include the key personnel to be assigned under this contract those persons listed below (Offerors shall provide this information in their technical proposal): NAME LABOR CATEGORIES

F.5.3 The persons named above are considered key personnel. The Contractor shall give at least fourteen (14) calendar days advance notice if any of these persons are to be removed or diverted from this contract; and shall supply written justification as part of this notice; and shall name the proposed substitute or replacement. The Contractor shall not, however, remove or divert such persons unless authorized by written consent of the Contracting Officer. F.5.4 General Approval. All Contractor personnel assigned to this contract are subject to Smithsonian Institution review in accordance with the defined labor categories herein. Contractor personnel found unacceptable by the Smithsonian at any time shall be removed from

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 28 of 57

performing under this contract within fourteen (14) calendar days after notification. Contracting Officer shall deliver such notification in writing to the Contractor.

The

F.6 Progress Payments. Payment will be made only upon Smithsonian's approval of invoice(s) for receipt and acceptance of deliverables. Offerors may submit a suggested payment schedule with the business proposal; however, the Smithsonian reserves the right to reject such schedule at its sole discretion. In the absence of an accepted proposed payment schedule, payment shall be made according to section B.1. F.7 Submission of Invoices

F.7.1 The Smithsonian Institution reserves the right to verify the amount of services rendered on any invoice by review of the Contractor's records. Such review may be made by appropriate Smithsonian Institution personnel or outside audit firm, at such election of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall make such records available to such audit personnel applicable to the invoiced project. F.7.2 The Contractor shall submit an Original and One Copy of their invoice(s), identifying the Smithsonian Institution's Contract Number, including pertinent data in regard to services completed and deliverable furnished to the following address: Original To: Smithsonian Institution Office of the Comptroller P.O. Box 37012, MRC 1203 Washington, DC 20013-7012 Smithsonian Institution Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Unit 9100 A.P.O. Box 0948, MRC 0580-12 Diplomatic AA 34002-9998 34002-0948 Attention: Francisco Rivera

Copy To:

NOTE: The Prompt Payment Act, P.L.97-177 (31 U.S.C Section 3901), is not applicable to the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian Institution shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that payment for invoice(s) properly documented and submitted shall be paid within 30 days from receipt of an approved proper invoice(s) by the COTR. G. (INTENTIONALLY OMITTED.) H. SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 Smithsonian Property Contractor assumes full responsibility for and shall indemnify the Smithsonian for any loss or damage of whatever kind to any Smithsonian property, including any equipment, supplies, accessories, or parts furnished, while in its custody and care for services to be performed under

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 29 of 57

the terms of this contract resulting in whole or in part from the negligent acts or omissions of the Contractor, any subcontractor, or any employee, agent, or representative of the Contractor or subcontractor. All materials provided by the Smithsonian for purposes of this contract shall be returned by the Contractor within thirty (30) calendar days to the place of origin or other location as designated by Smithsonian. H.2. ACCESS TO SI'S COMPUTER / DATA NETWORK If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Contractor personnel and/or representatives may be given a network logon account and access to the Smithsonian's computer / data network. In order to gain access to SI's computer network, Contractor personnel shall be required to read Smithsonian Directive 931 "Use of Computers and Networks", the "Rules of the Road for Users of Smithsonian Computers and Networks" (which are derived from SD 931), and sign an affirmation that they agree to comply with the provisions of SD 931, to act in a responsible manner, and to respect and maintain the security of all systems to which they have access. All Contractor personnel with network access are required to complete a short on-line computer security training program annually. Contractor personnel with SI network access are required to obtain an SI Security Credential (badge). H.3. SECURITY CREDENTIALS The Contractor shall abide by the rules, regulations and security requirements established by the Smithsonian. If deemed appropriate by the Smithsonian, Contractor personnel and/or representatives may be issued passes or visitor identification enabling such persons to enter and access Smithsonian properties and/or the Smithsonian's computer network. Such passes or other identification shall be issued only to persons meeting reasonable security criteria applicable to the properties and/or tasks being performed. The Smithsonian reserves the right to fingerprint contractors or other persons obtaining security credentials (i.e., badges) and/or conduct background checks for security purposes. The Smithsonian shall be entitled, in its sole discretion and without liability, to immediately remove or terminate the access rights of any of the Contractor's personnel and/or representatives. The Smithsonian shall promptly notify the Contractor of any such removal or termination and the basis for the revocation of access rights. Such pass or identification card shall be surrendered immediately at any time upon demand by the Smithsonian, upon completion of a task or service, or upon termination of this Agreement or tasks under it. H4. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION DIRECTIVES AND POLICY Work produced under this contract shall conform to Smithsonian Directives and Policy. Specifically, but not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Smithsonian Directive (SD) 950 ­ Web Management IT-950-TN01 ­ Web Copyright & Privacy Notices IT-950-TN02 ­ Internet Domain Names IT-950-TN03 ­ Public FTP Server Accounts SD 940 Acquisition of Information Technology Products IT-940-01 Technical Reference Model

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 30 of 57

H5. SECURITY TESTING Before a new website, online exhibit, or web application is moved to a production environment it shall successfully pass security and performance testing. Prior to acceptance, any web site and / or web application shall be placed in a test environment where it can be subjected to a series of web security tests under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Information Technology Security Staff. OCIO uses the SPI Dynamics WebInspect product suite for its testing. This product performs aggressive security testing of web applications and attempts to identify areas in which the product is not secure. The testing process shall inject data into the test database. If the project wishes to use a different tool for security testing, the testing tool and method shall be approved by the Smithsonian's Computer Security Manager. Any accepted site or application shall pass security testing. Any flaws identified shall be fixed or mitigated prior to production deployment. In cases where SI OCIO's assistance in testing shall be conducted on an expedited basis, or if tested the product is found to be so poor as to require repeated testing, OCIO may require reimbursement on a time and materials basis for the additional testing effort. The project is strongly encouraged to perform their own security testing on any products before submitting their code for formal pre-deployment testing. Note: The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) provides a list of additional vulnerability scanning tools in NIST Special Publication 800-44, Guidelines on Securing Public Web Servers. Where user authentication is part of the application, an additional authentication review by OCIO is required to determine the appropriate authentication method. H.6. PERFORMANCE TESTING Prior to acceptance, the project shall load stress test any web site and / or web application in accordance with site performance requirements. Based on the results of the testing, the Contractor shall alter the product to comply with the standards as directed by the COTR prior to production deployment. H.7. SECURITY CERTIFICATES & E-COMMERCE: If a unit's website or web application shall collect identifiable personal or financial information from a visitor, the communication shall be encrypted using secure socket layer (SSL) 3.0 or transport layer security (TLS) 1.0 or higher. The unit is responsible for the costs and implementation of authentication technology, including security certificates, for an individual website or application. Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) shall be completed for any website that collects, maintains, or disseminates personal information in electronic form from or about members of the public. The privacy notice shall include a link to the Smithsonian's current PIAs.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 31 of 57

If an out-sourced vendor is used to facilitate credit card transactions (E-commerce), the vendor shall be PCI-DSS compliant at a level equal or greater than the Smithsonian Institution. For Visa / Mastercard, this is currently level 2. (contact OCCON and OC for additional financial processing requirements.) H.8. DATA USE, DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION, AND HANDLING OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION The Contractor shall maintain, transmit, retain in strictest confidence, and prevent the unauthorized duplication, use, and disclosure of information. The Contractor shall provide information only to employees, Contractors, and subcontractors having a need to know such information in the performance of their duties for this project. Information made available to the Contractor by the Smithsonian for the performance or administration of this effort shall be used only for those purposes and shall not be used in any other way without the written agreement of the Contracting Officer. If public information is provided to the Contractor for use in performance or administration of this effort, the Contractor except with the written permission of the Contracting Officer may not use such information for any other purpose. If the Contractor is uncertain about the availability or proposed use of information provided for the performance or administration, the Contractor shall consult with the COTR regarding use of that information for other purposes. The Contractor agrees to assume responsibility for protecting the confidentiality of Smithsonian records which are not public information. Each employee of the Contractor to whom information may be made available or disclosed shall be notified in writing by the Contractor that such information may be disclosed only for a purpose and to the extent authorized herein. Performance of this effort may require the Contractor to access and use data and information proprietary to a Smithsonian or Contractor which is of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of this effort, would be adverse to the interests of the Smithsonian and/or others. Contractor and/or Contractor personnel shall not divulge or release data or information developed or obtained in performance of this effort, until made public by the Smithsonian, except to authorized Smithsonian personnel or upon written approval of the COTR. The Contractor shall not use, disclose, or reproduce proprietary data that bears a restrictive legend, other than as required in the performance of this effort. Nothing herein shall preclude the use of any data independently acquired by the Contractor without such limitations or prohibit an agreement at no cost to the Government between the Contractor and the data owner that provides for greater rights to the Contractor. H.9 Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Compliance In the event that the Contractor will be developing, acquiring, and/or producing products and/or systems pursuant to a contract that will be connected to a network or that will interface with the World Wide Web, the following provisions shall apply:

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 32 of 57

H.9.1 OMB Memo M-05-22, dated August 2, 2005, requires that all agencies' infrastructure must be IPv6 compliant. H.9.2 The Contractor hereby warrants and represents that the products and/or systems to be developed, acquired, and/or produced pursuant to this contract will be IPv6 compliant. These products and/or systems must be able to receive, process, and transmit or forward (as appropriate) IPv6 packets and must be able to interoperate with other systems and protocols in both IPv4 and IPv6 modes of operation. H.10 Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards Except as may be exempted by the Contracting Officer in writing, Contractor shall ensure that all products and/or services shall conform to the "Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards" (36 CFR 1194). If any furnished product and/or service is not in compliance with the Contract relative to 36 CFR 1194, Smithsonian will promptly inform the Offeror in writing. Offeror shall, without charge to the Smithsonian, repair or replace the noncompliant products and/or services within the period of time to be specified within the written notice. If such repair or replacement is not completed within the specified time, the Smithsonian may, in its sole discretion exercise one or more of the following: i. ii. iii. Terminate the Contract, Delivery or Task Order, Purchase, or Line Item without termination liabilities; Equitably adjust the Contract to reflect Contractor's failure to complete repair or replacement; and/or, In the case of custom Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) being developed for the Smithsonian, have any necessary changes made or repairs performed by itself or by another firm, at Contractor's expense and Contractor shall reimburse the Smithsonian for any costs and expenses incurred thereby.

H.11 Central Contractor Registration ("CCR") H.11.1 Contractors shall be registered in the CCR database prior to contract award, during performance, and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation, except for awards to foreign vendors for work to be performed outside the United States. H.11.2 The Contractor shall provide its DUNS or, if applicable, its DUNS+4 number with its offer, which will be used by the Contracting Officer to verify that the Contractor is registered in the CCR database. H.11.3 If the Contractor does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer shall proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Contractor. H.11.4 If the Contractor does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one for CCR use. Dun and Bradstreet may be reached at 1-866-705-5711 or

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 33 of 57

via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform/pages/CCRSearch.jsp. If located outside of the United States, Contractor shall contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office. H.11.5 The Contractor is responsible, during performance and through final payment, for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the Smithsonian's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate, and complete. Updating information in CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. H.11.6 The Contractor shall not change the name or address for electronic funds transfer (EFT) payments or manual payments as appropriate in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims. Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor shall be considered to be incorrect information. H.12.7 Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the Internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. H.13 Use of Smithsonian Name H.13.1 It is recognized and acknowledged that Contractor shall have no right to use the name "Smithsonian" or "Smithsonian Institution", or the name of any Smithsonian Museum or part thereof, including the Facilities, in connection with any of its own advertising, marketing or promotion. However, any marketing or promotional programs concerning the Smithsonian or the Project shall be submitted to the Smithsonian for review and approval prior to any implementation thereof. The Smithsonian may withhold any approval required hereunder as it wishes. H.14.2 The Prime Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or supplier or lower tier subcontractor or lower tier supplier with this clause. After award of the contract and upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Prime Contractor shall deliver a written statement acknowledging that this clause has been included in contracts with all subcontractors and suppliers. (See additional information in Section I.14.) H.15 Restriction Against Disclosure The Contractor agrees, in the performance of this contract to keep any information gathered or analyzed in the course of this contract in the strictest confidence, said information being the sole property of the Smithsonian Institution. The Contractor also agrees not to publish, reproduce or otherwise divulge such information in whole or in part, in any manner or form, nor to authorize or permit others to do so. The Contractor shall take such reasonable measures as are necessary to restrict access to such information to perform the work provided herein, i.e., on a "need to know" basis, and shall immediately notify, in writing, the Contracting Officer's Technical

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 34 of 57

Representative named herein, in the event that he determines or has reason to suspect a breach of this requirements. H.16 Dissemination of Information There shall be no dissemination or publication of information, except between the Contractor and any subcontractors, of information developed under this contract or any task orders awarded under the terms of this contract or contained in reports to be furnished pursuant to this contract without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. H.17 Nonpayment for Additional Work Any additional services or a change to work specified which may be performed by the Contractor, either at his own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer except as may be explicitly authorized in this contract, are not authorized and will not be paid for. Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and conditions in this contract. H.18 Indemnification H.18.1 Contractor shall be responsible for all damage and expense to person(s) or property caused by its negligent acts and those of its subcontractors, agents or employees, in connection with the work and services performed under this contract. Contractor shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Smithsonian Institution, its museums, bureaus, its Regents, officers, agents, employees and the U.S. Government from and against all claims, and liability (including judgments, settlements, statutory liability under Workers Compensation laws), and expenses (including attorneys fees) for any damages, expenses, acts and/or omissions of the Contractor, its agents, subcontractors or employees, related directly or indirectly to any aspect of this contract or performance of work hereunder, including claims and liability for injury to or death of any third party or of Contractor's, agents, subcontractors or employees , and loss or damage to Smithsonian property, exhibits, display cases, collection items, objects, and artifacts. . H.18.2 Contractor shall be liable for all damages, costs and expense incurred by the Smithsonian Institution in the construction of the Project including, but not limited to, damages, costs and expenses resulting from claims brought against the Smithsonian Institution by the construction contractor(s) caused by the failure of Contractor to perform the work and services under this contract with the same degree of standard of care and skill normally expected of and provided by consultants in the performance of the same or similar work and services to be provided under this contract. H.18.3 Acceptance of the work and services by the Smithsonian shall not waive any of the rights of the Smithsonian or release the Contractor from any liability, responsibility or duty contained herein. H.18.4 This indemnification and defense obligation shall also include causes of action based upon a claim that all or any portion of the Deliverables infringe or violate any intellectual

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 35 of 57

property rights including, but not limited to patents, copyrights, trade names, trade secrets, licenses or any other rights of any third party. Regarding infringement claims, if any Website is finally adjudged to so infringe, or in Contractor's opinion is likely to become the subject of such a claim, Contractor shall at its option, either: (a) procure for Smithsonian the right to continue using the Website; (b) modify or replace the Website to make it non-infringing; or, (c) refund the fee paid by Smithsonian, upon return of the Website. Contractor shall have no liability regarding any claim arising out of: (i) use of other than a current, unaltered release of the Website, unless the infringing portion is also in the then current, unaltered release; (ii) use of the Website in combination with non-Contractor software, data or equipment if the infringement was caused by such use or combination; (iii) any modification or derivation of the Website not specifically authorized in writing by Contractor; or, (iv) use of third party software. H.19 Specific Insurance Requirements H.19.1 Contractor shall maintain the insurance policies set forth below, covering the term of the contract, with carriers that are acceptable to the Smithsonian Institution. If policies are on a "claims made" basis, Contractor must continue coverage for at least three (3) years after it completes all activities related to this contract. Contractor shall provide Smithsonian Institution with a Certificate of Insurance evidencing the required coverage, at least fourteen (14) days prior to commencement of performance of this contract. Contractor agrees that it shall notify the Smithsonian Institution, in writing, at least thirty (30) days in advance of any material change to the scope or limits of insurance required by this provision. Contractor shall disclose to Smithsonian the full limits of all insurance policies on the required certificates of insurance, including any umbrella and/or excess liability policies. H.19.2 Contractor shall name the Smithsonian Institution and the United States of America as "ADDITIONAL INSUREDS" to the Commercial General Liability, Professional Liability, and Automobile Liability policies. H.19.3 Commercial General Liability: Contractor shall maintain Commercial General Liability or comparable broad form liability coverage including standard (ISO Form) coverage for 1) bodily injury, property damage, products and completed operations and contractual liability; and 2) advertising injury and personal injury and personal injury pertaining to all activities performed by Contractor as part of this contract. Minimum Per Occurrence Limit: $1,000,000 (One Million Dollars). H.19.4 Professional Liability Insurance: Coverage to include coverage for errors and omissions of the Contractor, its subcontractor(s), agents and employees. Minimum Per Occurrence Limit: $1,000,000 (One Million Dollars). H.19.5 Automobile Liability: Contractor shall maintain Business Automobile liability coverage including standard (ISO Form) coverage for 1) bodily injury; 2) property damage. Minimum Per Occurrence Limit: $1,000,000 (One Million Dollars). H.19.6 Worker's Compensation: Contractor shall maintain Worker's Compensation coverage which meets statutory limits of the jurisdiction where the work will be performed.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 36 of 57

H.19.7 Subcontractor(s): Contractor shall require its subcontractor(s) that perform work under this contract to carry the same insurance limits Contractor must carry under this contract, and to provide a Certificate of Insurance naming the Smithsonian Institution and the United States of America as "ADDITIONAL INSUREDS". H.19.8 Contractor may meet the insurance requirements through separate, combination, or package policies if those policies meet the required limits and scope of coverage. Umbrella and/or excess policy limits may be accepted to meet the required limits and scope of insurance. H.19.9 The insurance requirements provided herein are the Contractor's minimum requirements and shall not be considered indicative of the ultimate amounts and types of insurance needed by the Contractor. Neither failure to comply nor full compliance with the insurance provisions of this Contract shall limit or relieve the Contractor from the requirement to indemnify the Smithsonian Institution nor from other obligations under this contract. H.19.10 Federal Tort Claims Act: Contractor is hereby on notice that the Smithsonian Institution falls within the purview of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. § 2671 ­ 2680). As such, the exclusive remedy for claims against the Smithsonian for bodily injury, death, and property damage due to the negligence of the Smithsonian or its employees is the Federal Tort Claims Act; the General Counsel of the Smithsonian is fully authorized to settle all claims against the United States (herein represented by the Smithsonian Institution) for damage to property, personal injury, or death caused by the negligent act or failure to act of a Smithsonian employee in the course of his/her employment cognizable under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended; and in some instances, this may be the exclusive remedy. H.20 Notice Regarding Late Delivery In the event the Contractor encounters difficulty in meeting performance requirements or anticipates difficulty in complying with delivery schedules or dates, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer in writing, giving such pertinent details as the date by which he expects to complete performance or make delivery. This data shall be informational only and receipt thereof shall not be construed as a wavier by the Smithsonian of any delivery schedule or date, or any rights or remedies provided by law or under this Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 37 of 57

PART II ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES SECTION I ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 Definitions I.1.1 "Contract" means the resultant contract in the event of an award to Contractor. I.1.2 "SI" means the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. I.1.3"Contractor" shall mean the contractor awarded the Contract. I.1.4 "Contractor Property" means novel computer software: (i) independently developed and owned by Contractor as evidenced by contemporaneous written record; (ii) pre-existing Contractor's receipt of the Scope of Work referenced in Section C above and this present Section I, as evidenced by contemporaneous written record; and, (iii) identified to Smithsonian in writing prior to incorporation into the Website. Contractor Property excludes software (including generalized or specialized code) and/or other content created or developed by Contractor: (i) to facilitate services provided by Contractor hereunder; or, (ii) specifically for incorporation in the Website. I.1.5 "Deliverable" means: (i) the Website; (ii) Documentation; (iii) Delivery Schedule; (iv) Specifications; (v) Training; (vi) all other Deliverables referenced in Section C and Section I herein; and, (vii) Deliverables that are reasonably and customarily provided in connection with the Services (NOTE: Items i ­ vii are collectively referred to herein as "Deliverables"). I.1.6 "Documentation" means all documents, manuals (including Operator's and User's Manuals), brochures, training materials, guides, commentary, listings, and other materials describing any aspect of the Website or designed to facilitate the use, operation, modification or enhancement of the Website. I.1.7 "Main Website" means the interactive, user friendly website that is designed and programmed to enable users to gain comprehensive insight into the study of the tropical sciences through easily accessible information provided by a single compelling interface. The "VSO Website" is the interactive, user friendly website that is designed and programmed to enable the STRI scientific community to access STRI's administrative functions. The "Website" , means both the Main Website and the VSO Website, and includes the web-based computer software programs developed by Contractor, and all personal property related thereto including source code (along with all compiler, assembler or similar computer programs which convert the source code into the object code form of the Website to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language, assembly language, modifications, error corrections, enhancements, utilities, tools, derivatives and updates. I.1.8 "Content" means the content provided by SI to Contractor in accordance with this Contract. I.1.9 "Project" means the educational website which is the subject of this Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 38 of 57

I.1.10 "Work Product" means the work product defined in Section I.7.1. I.1.11 "Project Schedule" shall mean the deliverables schedule agreed upon by the parties in Section C.5. All other defined terms used in this present Section I shall have the meanings ascribed to them elsewhere in this RFP. I.2 Services: General I.2.1 Specifications: Under the terms of the Contract, Contractor, in coordination with the STRI IT Applications and Web Offices shall furnish the OCIO with the website specifications. The Contractor will be responsible for providing website, services and deliverables that conform to the specifications and meet the SI's technical standards. Failure to do so shall be considered a material breach of the Contract. I.2.2 Documentation: The Smithsonian shall have the right to make as many additional copies of the documentation as it may deem necessary. The documentation will identify and reflect any particular features that may affect the normal use and operation of the Website. NOTE: The User Manual must outline the Website structure and contain instructions regarding how to maintain and update Website content. (See C.3.7) I.2.3 Services: Standard of Performance Contractor shall use its best efforts to furnish the Services with the highest degree of professional skill, care, and diligence. Contractor shall also perform all services according to the terms and conditions of this Contract. Subject to the terms of the resultant Contract, Contractor also agrees to perform the work in accordance with the Proposal, provided however, that if any provisions of the Proposal either conflict with or are inconsistent with the Contract, the terms of the Contract shall prevail. Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that all services that require the exercise of professional skills or judgment shall be performed by professionals trained, qualified, and competent in the applicable discipline and appropriately licensed, as required by law. Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that its subcontractors, if any, shall perform the Services: (i) using sound, professional practices; (ii) in a competent and professional manner; and, (iii) with knowledgeable, trained and qualified personnel. Finally, Contractor, at its sole expense, shall re-perform any services and correct any deliverables that are not delivered or furnished in accordance with the Contract whether the Services were provided by Contractor or a subcontractor or SI may take such action as it deems necessary to perform such services and/or correct such deliverables and charge Contractor for any costs and expenses incurred as a result thereof and/or withhold any amounts which may be due Contractor under the Contract in connection therewith. I.3 Website Guidelines I.3.1 Guidelines: In addition to any requirements contained herein, Contractor shall use its best efforts to ensure that the Website conforms to the guidelines listed in the contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 39 of 57

I.3.2 Artistic Control: Smithsonian shall have exclusive artistic and editorial control over the Website including without limitation, integration of all content; the design; and the look and feel of any Website. Except as provided herein, Contractor shall not publish, or otherwise display the Website or any portion thereof without Smithsonian's prior written approval. I.3.3 Limitations: Contractor shall not, without Smithsonian's prior written consent, permit a Website to contain or include: (i) software that is downloadable by users (other than HTML and other software used to format and display HTML documents or World Wide Web Pages, and elements embedded therein, such as sounds, images, audiovisual clips, which elements Smithsonian acknowledges will be downloadable by users); (ii) HTTP links to websites other than a Smithsonian website; (iii) materials received and/or licensed from third parties without Smithsonian's prior, written consent; or, (iv) the capability to sell products or services directly through the Website. I.3.4 Current Technology: Throughout the life of the Contract, Contractor shall continually use and integrate the most current and up-to-date, commercially available, technology, subject to the Smithsonian's prior, written approval. I.5 Timeliness of Completion I.5.1 Contractor shall always perform any contracted Services in accordance with the timetable and milestones contained in the Delivery Schedule. If Contractor anticipates at any time that Contractor will not reach one or more milestones or complete one or more tasks within the prescribed timetable or otherwise meet the Delivery Schedule, Contractor shall promptly inform Smithsonian by written notice; submit proposed revisions to the Delivery Schedule, including timetables and milestones that reflect Contractor's best estimate of what can realistically be achieved; and, continue to work under and be bound by the original Delivery Schedule, including the timetable and milestones until otherwise directed by Smithsonian. Contractor shall also prepare and submit such further reports on Contractor's performance and progress as Smithsonian may reasonably request from time to time. I.5.2 If Contractor fails to meet a timetable, milestone, benchmark, or other deadline contained in the Delivery Schedule and such failure is not cured within fifteen (15) days of Contractor's receipt of notice of such failure from Smithsonian, Smithsonian may, at its sole discretion, terminate this Contract, and receive a prorated refund of all amounts paid to Contractor, including the Fee. I.6 Continuing Services I.6.1 Website Transfer / Operation: Upon Smithsonian Acceptance, Contractor shall promptly transfer, install and implement the Website and any other applicable Deliverables, to and on the host internet server and supporting environment at the host server located at the site designated by Smithsonian (collectively, the "Host Server"). The Website will be hosted on the Host Server operated by Smithsonian or as otherwise specified by Smithsonian ("Hosting Service Provider").

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 40 of 57

Contractor shall work with the Smithsonian and the Hosting Service Provider, if any, to transfer the website to the Host Server. However, Contractor shall have ultimate responsibility for transferring the website to the Host Server. Contractor shall promptly inform Smithsonian of any failure by Smithsonian or any other Hosting Service Provider to assist Contractor in effecting such transfer. Contractor represents and warrants that all Services shall be performed so that the website, when operated on the Host Server by the Hosting Service Provider, will function and perform in accordance with the specifications of the resultant Contract. Contractor shall, at no cost to Smithsonian or the Hosting Service Provider, promptly provide any updates, revisions, and replacements necessary for the website to function and perform in accordance with the specifications, when operated on the Host Server. I.6.2 Operation of Website: Smithsonian reserves the right to designate an alternate Host Server and Hosting Service Provider, and such designation shall not relieve Contractor of its obligations under any provision of this Contract. Contractor shall fully cooperate with Smithsonian and the Hosting Service Provider in implementing the website on the Host Server and identifying and correcting any errors in the Website. The Smithsonian shall designate the Host Server and the Hosting Service Provider. I.6.3 Usage Utilities / Search Appliance: Contractor shall design a website so that it is integrated with the WebTrends 7.5 and higher Website Statistics Utility and the Google GB-5005 Enterprise Search Appliance. Webtrends 7.5 will permit Smithsonian to obtain in detail: (i) information reflecting access and usage of the Website, including without limitation, audited and unaudited hits, visits, click-throughs and impressions; (ii) available information about users of the Website; (iii) information directly or indirectly obtained from users accessing the Website; and, (iv) such other information as may be requested by the Smithsonian (collectively "Usage Information"). Contractor, at its own expense, shall adhere to all National and International, Federal, State and Local privacy and data protection laws applicable to the gathering, processing, storing, using, and transmitting of Usage Information. Contractor shall maintain all Usage Information with strict confidentiality. Contractor shall not disseminate or use any Usage Information without Smithsonian's prior written consent. I.6.4 Source Files/Source Code: Unless otherwise directed by the proper SI authority, Contractor shall provide Smithsonian with all source files including high-resolution (non-derivative) masterimage files. Contractor shall also furnish Smithsonian with two (2) complete and accurate machine readable CD/DVD copies of: (i) the source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code, machine language and assembly language forms of the Website; (ii) all original Photoshop, illustrator or other graphics files, xthml, dhtml, CSS, cfm, html files, complete java or javascript code, flash, director, animation or other scripts and production files, if any; and, (iii) all other Work Product. If Contractor corrects any defects in, or revises all or any portion of the website, Contractor shall simultaneously furnish Smithsonian with two (2) corrected or revised copies of the source code (including the compiler and assembler utilities, to the extent permitted by law), object code,

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 41 of 57

machine language and assembly language forms of the created Website along with two (2) machine readable CD/DVD copies of the Website. I.6.5 URL Registration: Contractor agrees to develop any websites in a manner that provides Smithsonian with maximum opportunity for placement in search engine queries. As part of this effort, Contractor shall use "best practices" and acceptable placement techniques that would not: (i) adversely affect Smithsonian's reputation or bring it into disrepute; or, (ii) constitute unfair competition. As an example of these efforts, but not as a limitation, Contractor will attempt to hit "Top 20" ranking on specified keywords (when the Website is initially indexed) with three of the seven most heavily traveled search engines. I.6.6 Quality Assurance: Throughout the Term (as defined herein), Contractor shall adopt a Quality Assurance Program to monitor and evaluate the quality and effectiveness of the website. Contractor will cooperate with the Smithsonian in taking steps to resolve any quality or performance issues arising in connection with a created website. Smithsonian reserves the right to review Contractor's Quality Assurance Program. I.6.7 Content Conversion: Contractor shall convert, input, digitize, or otherwise format all content to be included on the created website. I.6.8 Technology Reference Model: Contractor shall develop the website using a proper system development life cycle model and adhere to Smithsonian's technical architecture and infrastructure standards. I.7 Proprietary Rights I.7.1 Work-for-Hire: The Deliverables and all other software code, materials and products derived from the services performed by Contractor hereunder ("Work Product"), shall each be considered a "work made for hire" and the Work Product and all intellectual property rights embodied therein (including copyright, trademark, patent and trade secrets) are Smithsonian's sole and exclusive property throughout the world. "Work Product" under this Contract shall also include the following: (i) all design documents; (ii) all graphic elements, the aesthetic qualities, the "look and feel" of the website, and all other unique and/or customized parts and aspects of a website not generally used or applied to websites; and, (iii) all computer software, in both source code and object code form, as well as user, programmer and technical documentation relating to such software. If title to the Work Product does not vest in Smithsonian, by operation of law, or all or any portion of the Work Product is not considered "work made for hire" under the United States Copyright law, Contractor hereby irrevocably assigns and shall cause its' subcontractors to irrevocably assign to Smithsonian, all rights, title and interest therein, including without limitation, all copyright, patent, trade secrets and other proprietary rights in and to all Work Product. Smithsonian has the sole right to obtain and to hold in its own name Work Product copyrights, trademarks, servicemarks, registrations or such other protection as may be appropriate to the subject matter, and any extensions and renewals thereof. Contractor agrees, and shall cause its subcontractors to agree, to take all actions requested by Smithsonian and to give Smithsonian and any person designated by Smithsonian, any assistance required to protect and perfect the rights contained in this Section I.7 in the United States and

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 42 of 57

throughout the world. Contractor shall secure Smithsonian's legal title and interests in and to all Work Product made for hire produced for Contractor by third parties, including but not limited to subcontractors. I.7.2 Use Restriction: Contractor may not market, sell, use, or share with third parties any computer programs, software, documentation, copyrightable work, discoveries, inventions, or improvements developed from the Contract. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Contractor and its personnel shall be free to use, disclose, and employ any generalized ideas, concepts, know-how, methods, techniques, or skills gained or learned during the course of this Contract so long as it or they acquire and apply such information without any unauthorized use or disclosure of Smithsonian confidential or proprietary information. I.7.3 Retained Rights: Contractor shall retain ownership of the rights in its techniques, experience, ideas, skills, know-how and concepts not specifically developed for the Smithsonian, but used to provide the Services ("Retained Rights") and Contractor grants Smithsonian an irrevocable, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, enterprise-wide, non-exclusive license to use such Retained Rights in connection with the Services, including the use, operation and maintenance of the website. I.7.4 Contractor Property: Contractor grants to Smithsonian, its affiliates and subsidiaries, an irrevocable, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, enterprise-wide, non-exclusive license to possess and use all computer software, editing utilities, and development tools owned by Contractor that is contained in, comprising, or otherwise necessary to produce, operate, display and maintain an SI connected website in object code, source code, and other applicable forms (collectively "Contractor Property") twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week, fifty two (52) weeks per year. I.7.5 No Infringement: Contractor represents and warrants that the Services and the exercise by Smithsonian of any of its rights in this Section I.7 will not infringe any United States patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property right (including trade secrets), privacy or similar rights of any person or entity, nor---to Contractor's knowledge---has any claim (whether or not embodied in any action, past or present) of such infringement been threatened or asserted, nor is such a claim pending against Contractor (or, insofar as Contractor is aware, against any entity from which the Contractor has obtained any rights to be granted hereunder) in connection with the Services. Contractor further represents and warrants that it has secured all of the rights and permissions, if any, necessary to provide the Services. I.7.6 Content License: Smithsonian grants Contractor a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license, solely during the Term, to use the Content for Smithsonian's sole benefit, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the resultant Contract. Contractor may make such copies, including back-up copies of the Content, as may be necessary to perform its obligations hereunder. I.7.7 Third Party Licenses: Contractor, at Contractor's sole expense, shall obtain for Smithsonian's benefit, all third party licenses required for use in connection with the development of a website or specific website materials and applications. Contractor shall include a list of all such licenses in the Specifications and also furnish Smithsonian with copies of all such licenses obtained by Contractor. Smithsonian, at Smithsonian's sole expense shall

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 43 of 57

obtain and install any third party licenses required to operate the constructed website on the Smithsonian's servers. I.7.8 Subcontracts: Contractor shall include the provisions of this Section I.7 in each subcontract entered into in connection with this Contract. I.8 Services: Confidentiality Nondisclosure: In connection with the Contract, Contractor may have access to or be exposed to, directly and indirectly, Smithsonian know-how, products, designs, drawings, specifications, test and research results, marketing, services, price or cost information, supplier or customer lists, regulatory files, user information, data, knowledge, information about the technical, marketing, services, products and business affairs of Smithsonian, and proprietary and trade secret information of Smithsonian, in oral, graphic, written, electronic or machine readable form (collectively, "Confidential Information"). Work Product is also considered Confidential Information. All Confidential Information shall be held in strict confidence by Contractor and shall not be disclosed or used by Contractor without the Smithsonian's prior written consent, except as provided in this Contract. Contractor shall use its best efforts to provide protection for Confidential Information, including, but not limited to, measures at least as strict as those Contractor uses to protect its own Confidential Information. Confidential Information shall not include any information that: (i) was previously known to Contractor (other than as a result of previous work done with the disclosing party); (ii) was independently developed by Contractor, as evidenced by contemporaneous written record; (iii) was acquired by Contractor from a third party that is not under an obligation not to disclose such information; (iv) is or becomes publicly available other than through a breach by Contractor of an agreement with Smithsonian; (v) has been in the public domain prior to the time of disclosure of said information to Contractor hereunder ("Time of Receipt"); or, (vi) becomes part of the public domain after the Time of Receipt, by a publication, or by any other means except an unauthorized act or omission or breach of this Contract by Contractor, its employees, consultants, subcontractors or agents. If Contractor is required by law or in connection with a legal proceeding to disclose or produce Confidential Information, Contractor shall promptly provide the Smithsonian with written notice of the Confidential Information requested so that the Smithsonian may, at its option, seek an appropriate protective order or other remedy. Contractor may subsequently disclose or produce such Confidential Information to a tribunal legally authorized to receive such Confidential Information without liability to Smithsonian. Contractor shall require that its officers, directors, employees, subcontractors and agents who have access to Confidential Information comply with the confidentially and non-disclosure obligations contained herein. Contractor shall include this confidentiality provision in each of Contractor's subcontracts entered into in connection with the resultant Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 44 of 57

I.9 Smithsonian Institution Independent Contractor Clauses: I.9.1 It is understood that Contractor is undertaking the work hereunder as an independent contractor, not as an employee of the Smithsonian, and neither Contractor nor Contractor's employees are eligible for Smithsonian benefits, including coverage under FECA (workers compensation) and FTCA (Federal Tort Claims Act), or coverage under any Smithsonian workers compensation, medical, liability, or other insurance policy, or for legal protections afforded to employees under law applicable to employment relationships. (i) Contractor is responsible for providing, at Contractor's own expense and as necessary, disability, unemployment, workers compensation and other insurance, including adequate liability and property insurance, training, permits, and licenses for Contractor and for Contractor's employees. (ii) Contractor is responsible for paying all taxes and income taxes, including estimated taxes, incurred as a result of the payments by Smithsonian to Contractor for performance of this contract. The parties, by this contract, do not intend to create a partnership, principal/agent, or joint venture relationship, and nothing in this contract shall be construed as creating such a relationship between the parties. Neither party may incur any obligation on behalf of the other. Contractor agrees and acknowledges that Smithsonian assumes no responsibility whatsoever for the acts, errors and/or omissions of Contractor beyond those that the Smithsonian is responsible for at law.

I.9.2 Subcontractors Contractor shall not subcontract all or any of the Services without Smithsonian's prior, written approval. Contractor remains responsible for the professional and technical accuracy of all Services furnished by Contractors' subcontractors in connection with this Contract. Upon Smithsonian's request, Contractor shall furnish Smithsonian with copies of all agreements between Contractor and any subcontractor providing all or a portion of the services provided or products developed hereunder. Contractor shall include this provision in each subcontract entered into in connection with this Contract. I.10 Change Orders Smithsonian may suggest changes within the scope of the Services, including elimination of tasks or services, by notifying Contractor of the requested change orally or in writing (including by electronic mail) ("Modification Request"). Contractor shall respond in writing, within three (3) business days after receipt of the Modification Request, with the information listed below: (i) Modification Request identifier/description; (ii) Estimated level of effort defined in hours/days and dollars, estimated fees and estimated effect on Deliverables (if any);

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 45 of 57

(iii) Date by which approval from Smithsonian's Contracting Officer needs to be secured in order to meet the original or updated Delivery Schedule, if any; and, (iv) Date by which work will need to commence to meet the original or updated Delivery Schedule, if any. Contractor shall not perform any work pursuant to a Modification Request until it has been approved in writing by the Smithsonian's Contracting Officer. Each Modification Request approved in writing by the Smithsonian's Contracting Officer shall be considered a "Contract Modification" for purposes of this Contract. If approval is not obtained from the Smithsonian's Contracting Officer by the date described in item (iii) above, Contractor shall continue to perform the services in accordance with this Contract. Contractor will not be paid for any work that has not been approved in writing by Smithsonian's Contracting Officer. I.11 Books/Records I.11.1 Records Retention: Contractor and Contractor's subcontractors, if any, are accountable for all funds received under any contract performed under the resultant Contract and, subject to Section I.11.2 below, shall maintain detailed books, records, invoices, papers, materials and supporting documents to verify the amount, use and disbursement of amounts remitted to them in connection with this Contract ("Records") for a minimum of three (3) years from the date of the final payment to Contractor in connection with the resultant Contract. All Records shall be available for examination, copying and audit by Smithsonian and its designees, agents or representatives and Contractor agrees and shall cause its subcontractors, if any, to agree, to cooperate fully with any inspection or audit conducted by Smithsonian or its designees, agents or representatives. Contractor agrees and shall cause its subcontractors, if any, to agree to provide full access to the Records. I.11.2 Extension: The periods of retention, access and examination described in Section I.11.1 above, for Records which relate to litigation or the settlement of claims arising out of: (i) the performance of this Contract; or, (ii) costs and expenses of this Contract as to which exception has been taken by the Smithsonian or any of its representatives, shall continue until either such appeals, litigation, claims, or exceptions have been finally resolved; or until the expiration of the three (3) year period referenced in Section I.11.1 above, whichever time is greater. I.11.3 Subcontracts: Contractor shall include the provisions of this Section I.11 in each subcontract entered into in connection with the resultant Contract. I.12 (Intentionally Omitted) I.13 Warranties Contractor represents and warrants the following: I.13.1 General Warranties: (i) A Contractor constructed Website will operate in conformance with the terms of the Contract; (ii) Contractor has full authority to enter into any SI Contract; (iii) Contractor is either the owner of the software, materials and methodologies used to develop a Website or Contractor has acquired the rights to use any software, materials and methodologies

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 46 of 57

owed by third parties used to develop a Website or provide the services contained within the Scope of Work; (iv) at the time of delivery, a Website shall comply with the terms of the Contract; (v) any Website and/or other materials and methodologies used by Contractor in connection with the Contract (excluding Content supplied by Smithsonian) does not infringe upon any third party copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret or other third-party right; (vi) all information provided to Smithsonian prior to the execution of the contract was accurate at the time it was made, and Contractor is not aware of substantial changes that would adversely affect Contractor's ability to perform the Services; and, (vii) Contractor shall not use the Content for any purpose other than that of fulfilling Contractor's obligations under this Contract. The Content may not be used, disclosed, transmitted, transferred, sold, assigned, leased or otherwise disposed of, or made available to third parties, or be commercially exploited by or on behalf of Contractor, or Contractor's employees or agents, except as expressly provided in this Contract. I.13.2 Software Limitation: When delivered to Smithsonian a Website will not: (i) contain any virus; or, (ii) contain any key lock, back door, scripting error, timer, clock, counter or other limiting design, instruction, routine or disabling device that would: (a) disrupt the use of the Website, or the use of any hardware, software or systems to which the Website is interfaced or connected; (b) destroy or damage data or make data inaccessible or delayed; or, (c) permit Contractor's personnel or other individuals access to any portion of the Website if their access privileges have been revoked or suspended (the preceding (a), (b) and (c) are collectively referred to herein as "Software Limitation"). Moreover, Contractor represents that there will be no Software Limitation in a Website that would be triggered by: (i) the Website being used or copied a certain number of times, or after the lapse of a certain period of time; (ii) the Website being installed on or moved to a central processing unit or system that has a serial number, model number or other identification different from the central processing unit or system on which the Website was originally installed; or, (iii) the occurrence or lapse of any similar triggering factor or event. Contractor shall use reasonable practices and security procedures to avoid insertion of Software Limitations, whether prior to installation of the Website or in rendering warranty, maintenance and support services, if any. Contractor will not knowingly include any Software Limitation in any enhancement or update. Any constructed Website will work compatibly with commercially available virus protection programs. Under no circumstances will Contractor disrupt the functioning of, or prevent Smithsonian from gaining access to a Website or any Deliverables. I.13.3 Warranty Period: For a period of six (6) months after the date of Contractor's final payment hereunder, ("Warranty Period"), the Contractor provided Website shall: (i) be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and remain in good working order; (ii) interface with the software programs and applications referenced in this contract; (iii) operate on the server designated by the Smithsonian; (iv) function properly and in conformity with this Contract; and, (v) be fit for its' intended use.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 47 of 57

If a Website does not meet the warranties referenced in this Section I.13, Contractor shall provide at no charge during the Warranty Period, the necessary software and services required to attain the levels or standards contained in this Section I.13. Contractor further agrees that a qualified and knowledgeable representative will respond to any request for service due to a failure, malfunction, defect or non-conformity via telephone within one hour of receipt of such request and such representative shall render continuous effort, to remedy the failure, malfunction, defect or non-conformity. If such failure, malfunction, defect, or non-conformity cannot be remedied by such means within one (1) hour of receipt of such request, Contractor shall furnish continuous effort to remedy the failure, malfunction, defect, or non-conformity. Finally, during the Warranty Period, Contractor warrants that it shall remedy, at its expense, any failure of the Website to perform in accordance with this Contract. During the Warranty Period, any defect in a created Website or Deliverables of which Contractor is notified of shall be promptly eliminated, fixed or patched at no cost to the Smithsonian and shall be promptly delivered to Smithsonian. I.13.4 Development: Contractor will not design, or cause to be designed, a separate website that contains a "looks and feel" like the Website required under the Scope of Work. Such "look and feel" shall include, but not be limited to, the degree of presence or absence of any of the following elements: the use of the same backgrounds; the use of the same or similar logos, animations, colors, styles, graphics or similar elements; the use of a similar organization scheme for the entire website or for any particular page or section similar to those contained in the Website; the use of descriptive text similar to or organized similar to the Website; or, the use of links or graphics the same or substantially similar to those contained in the Website to convey content. I.13.5 "No Infringement": As previously referenced under Section I.7.5 above, Contractor is either the author of a given Website and Documentation or has sufficient right to grant the rights and/or licenses granted to the Smithsonian and that it will grant the rights and/or licenses agreed to herein; and, the Website, and the exercise by the Smithsonian of any of its rights hereunder, does not to Contractor's knowledge infringe any existing United States patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property right (including trade secrets), privacy or similar rights of any person or entity, nor, to Contractor's knowledge, has any claim (whether or not embodied in any action, past or present) of such infringement been threatened or asserted, nor is such a claim pending against Contractor (or, insofar as Contractor is aware, against any entity from which the Contractor has obtained any rights to be granted hereunder). I.13.6 Smithsonian Warranties: Smithsonian represents and warrants that: (i) it has full authority to enter into this Contract; and, (ii) the Content does not infringe or violate copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any third party. To the extent permitted by law, Smithsonian will indemnify, hold harmless and defend Contractor from and against any losses, damages or expenses incurred by Contractor as a result of a claim against Contractor by a third party relating to the Content.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 48 of 57

I.14 Use of Names I.14.1 Goodwill: Contractor is hereby put on notice that Smithsonian owns, controls, and/or has registered the trademarks/service marks "Smithsonian," "Smithsonian ," and the Smithsonian sunburst logo (collectively, the "Names"). Contractor further acknowledges the great value of the prestige, publicity, and "good will" associated with the Names, and in such connection, acknowledges that such good will belongs exclusively to Smithsonian and that the Names have acquired a secondary meaning in the mind of the purchasing public as a source of museum services and museum products (for Smithsonian). Contractor agrees that it shall not knowingly harm, misuse, or bring into disrepute the Names, and will assist Smithsonian as it may reasonably request in preserving the integrity and dignity of the Names and any trademark interests therein. I.14. 2 Restricted Uses: I 14.2.1 Endorsement: Contractor is specifically barred from claiming any endorsement from Smithsonian or from claiming that Contractor is a preferred provider or otherwise special among other similar Contractors. I.14.2.2 Letterhead: Contractor shall not have the Names printed on its letterhead stationary or brochures advertising non-Smithsonian sponsored activities. I.14.3 Permitted Uses: I.14.3.1 General: Contractor may make general reference to the Names in a way which is strictly limited to acknowledgment that Contractor has acted as designer of the Website under this Contract in a manner which is consistent with this Section I.14, and Contractor further agrees that the Contractor shall not use the Names for any other purpose without the express written consent of Smithsonian. I.14.3.2 Résumé Format: Contractor may make use of the Names in a client "résumé" format, so long as Contractor lists Smithsonian among all or a significant portion of its other clients, without placing the Names in a prominent position, prominent or different typeface, or otherwise placing the Names so as to draw special attention to them among other client names. The preferred method is to arrange client names according to either alphabetical order or chronologically, according to number of years that Contractor has provided service to each client. I.14.3.3 Smithsonian Approvals: Contractor's use of the Names shall maintain the dignity and integrity of the Smithsonian. All of the language, phrases, format, and/or layout concerning or referring to the Names pertaining to the subject matter of this Contract shall be submitted to Smithsonian for Smithsonian's prior written approval and such approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, nor conditioned upon the payment of monies other than as stipulated elsewhere in this Contract. Once Smithsonian has approved such materials, Contractor may continue to use such materials without further approval, provided that there are no significant changes in text, layout, content, or design. Contractor shall place an appropriate

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 49 of 57

notice of trademark ownership or federal trademark registration next to all of the Names as they are displayed. Any inadvertent failure shall not constitute a breach of this Contract. I.14.3.4 Incorporation: Contractor shall include the terms of this Section I.14 in any contracts with other parties providing services related to the performance of the resultant Contract such as, but not limited to, subcontractors related to or performing the work contemplated in this solicitation. I.15 Termination I.15.1 Termination for Default: If Contractor defaults in the performance of any material obligation set out in this contract or a contract arising from this contract, and fails to remedy such default within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of written notice from Smithsonian, that such contract shall terminate effective the thirty-first (31st) day following Contractor's receipt of written notice. If for any reason a termination under this provision is deemed improper or unlawful, then the termination shall be deemed a Termination for Convenience under Section I.15.2 below. I.15.2 Termination for Convenience: Smithsonian's Contracting Officer may immediately terminate this contract or any other contract associated with this contract, in whole or in part, by written notice at any time when it is in Smithsonian's interest to do so. I.15.3 Force Majeure: If either party is delayed or prevented from performing its obligations under this Contract by reason of fire, earthquake, flood, explosion, accidents, strikes, "Acts of God" or war, the affected Contract shall be extended for a period equal to the duration of such cause up to a maximum of ninety (90) calendar days. If performance is delayed beyond ninety (90) days, either party hereto may terminate the referenced Contract, and all rights or obligations hereunder shall cease. I.15.4 Conduct Upon Termination: Upon termination, the parties shall proceed in an orderly fashion to terminate any outstanding commitments parties agree that in the case of termination, the parties respectively will return any original materials in possession at the time of termination furnished or owned by the other party in conjunction with the performance of the Contract. In the event of termination, the parties will have no further financial or other obligation to each other with regard to any created Website. Furthermore, Contractor shall immediately cease to use the Smithsonian Names and Logo, and shall not exploit in any manner its association with Smithsonian, unless the parties otherwise agree in the writing at the time of termination. I.15.5 Remaining Payments: Upon Termination for Convenience, Smithsonian shall pay, upon presentation of a proper claim therefore, the actual cost of the work performed by Contractor up to the date of termination less any funds previously paid by Smithsonian, in addition to reimbursable expenses incurred as of the date of termination, provided that: (i) the claims submitted by Contractor shall not exceed the Fee; (ii) in the judgment of Smithsonian's Contracting Officer, Contractor has made reasonable, good faith efforts toward the objectives of this Contract; and, (iii) the costs incurred are reasonable in relationship to the total anticipated cost of the services. Such payment shall relieve Smithsonian of any and all liability for remaining payment obligations to Contractor under the Contract.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 50 of 57

Contractor shall return to Smithsonian any payments made by Smithsonian for which services have not been rendered. No costs incurred with respect to services performed after the effective date of termination are allowed. Payment or reimbursement for any services actually and satisfactorily performed before the effective date of the termination will be in accordance with this Contract, but if any compensation is described or provided for on the basis of a period of time rather than costs incurred, then the compensation shall be prorated accordingly based on the number of days on which the services were received. No amount of compensation is allowed for unperformed services or anticipated profits on unperformed services. Payment under this provision is in full settlement for all services satisfactorily performed under this contract. I.15.6 Bankruptcy: The parties agree that continuous performance of the Contract by Contractor is critical, and that (for purposes of this Section) time is of the essence in the performance of that Contract. If Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether voluntary or involuntary, Contractor agrees to furnish, by certified mail, written notification of the bankruptcy (including the date on which the bankruptcy petition was filed, the name and location of the court in which the petition was filed, and the Smithsonian Contract number as it appears on the first page of the award) to Smithsonian's Contracting Officer within five (5) days of the initiation of the proceedings relating to bankruptcy filing. If Contractor is adjudicated a bankrupt or becomes a debtor under Title 11 of the U.S. Code, the parties agree that Smithsonian will suffer irreparable harm unless Contractor immediately elects to either assume or reject the contract. Therefore, Contractor shall use its best efforts to move the court within fifteen (15) days of Contractor's filing its petition for bankruptcy to permit Contractor either to assume or reject the Contract, to request of the court a hearing on the matter on an emergency basis, and to schedule such hearing within no more than twenty-one (21) days from the date of Contractor's request. Smithsonian may terminate the Contract immediately and without penalty upon any breach of Contractor's obligations under this provision. I.16 Miscellaneous I.16.1 Amendment: The Contract shall not be amended or modified without the prior, written approval of the Contracting Officer. I.16.2 Assignment: Contractor shall not assign, subcontract, or otherwise convey all or any portion of the Contract without the Contracting Officer's prior, written approval. This Contract shall be binding upon Contractor's heirs, assigns, executors, administrators and successors in interest. I.16.3 Governing Law: The Contract shall in all respects be interpreted, construed, and governed in accordance with the laws of Washington, D.C., regardless of the place of execution or performance, without regard to the "Conflict of Laws" provisions thereof. I.16.4 Non-Discrimination: In fulfilling its obligations under the Contract, Contractor agrees not to discriminate based on race, creed, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability or for any other reason prohibited by Federal or applicable state law. I.16.5 No Waivers: The waiver by any party or the failure by either party to claim a breach or

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 51 of 57

default of any of the provisions of the contract shall not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach whether of a similar or dissimilar nature, nor shall any delay or omission on the part of either party to exercise any right that it has under the contract operate as a waiver of such right. Moreover, Smithsonian's review, approval, acceptance, or payments hereunder shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights under the Contract or of any cause of action arising out of the performance of a subsequent contract. Contractor remains liable to Smithsonian for any failure to provide the Services, whether by Contractor or a subcontractor, in accordance with the terms of this contract. I.16.6 Relationship: The parties, by the Contract, do not intend to create a partnership, principal/agent, master/servant, or joint venture relationship and nothing in the resultant Contract shall be construed as creating such a relationship between the parties. Neither party may incur any obligation on behalf of the other. I.16.7 Order of Precedence: Any inconsistency in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (i) Sections A ­ H ; (ii) Contract Clauses (Section I); (iii) Other Documents, Exhibits, and Attachments (Such as those listed in Section J); (iv) Other provisions of the Contract whether incorporated by reference or otherwise; (v) Contractor's Proposal. I.16.8 Beneficiaries: The proposed contract has been made and is solely for the benefit of Smithsonian and Contractor. Nothing in this contract confers any rights or remedies to other any persons or entities. I.16.9 Severability: If any term or provision of this contract shall be held to be invalid or illegal, such term or provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions of this contract. I.16.10 Recitals / Headings: The recitals herein constitute an integral part of this contract and are incorporated herein by reference. However, the captions and headings contained in this contract have been inserted for reference and convenience only and shall not be used in its interpretation. I.16.11 Officials Not to Benefit: No member of or delegate to Congress, or resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of the Contract, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to extend to the final Contract if made with a corporation for its general benefit. I.16.12 Remedies: Smithsonian's rights and remedies hereunder are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or elsewhere in the final contract. I.16.13 Jointly Drafted: The Contract shall be deemed to have been drafted by both parties and, in the event of a dispute, shall not be construed against either party as drafter.

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 52 of 57

I.16.14 Entire Agreement: The Contract, together with all attachments identified herein, shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes all previous verbal and written negotiations, understandings and agreements related to this contract. I.16.15 Disputes: Except as otherwise provided herein, any dispute concerning a question of fact arising under the final contract, which is not disposed of by agreement, shall be decided by the Contracting Officer, who shall reduce his decision to writing and mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof to Contractor. The decision of the Contracting Officer shall be final and conclusive unless, within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of such copy, the Contractor mails or otherwise furnishes to the Contracting Officer a written appeal addressed to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The decision of the Secretary, or his duly authorized representative, for the determination of such appeals shall be final and conclusive unless determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been fraudulent, capricious, arbitrary, or so grossly erroneous as necessarily to imply bad faith, or not supported by substantial evidence. In connection with any appeal proceeding under this clause, Contractor will have an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of its appeal. Pending final decision of a dispute hereunder, Contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the Contract and in accordance with the Contracting Officer's decision. I.16.16 Compliance with Laws: Contractor will perform the Services in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, and Local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances. I.16.17 Joint / Several Liability: If Contractor is comprised of more than one legal entity; each such entity shall be jointly and severally liable hereunder. J. LIST OF ATTACHMENTS The following documents are attached hereto and made a part of the solicitation; or are incorporated herein by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text: Attachments J.1-J.5 Attachment J.6. Smithsonian Institution Service Contract Clauses, OCon Form 4 (Revised 13 April 09, 23 single-sided pages) Attachment J.7. U.S. Department of Labor Wage Determination No. 2005-2103, Revision 7, dated March 16, 2009 (10 single-sided pages). Attachment J.8. Agreed upon updated Project schedule (to be incorporated by reference after award). K. REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS OR
RESPONDENTS

K.1

See Section I.2

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 53 of 57

Attachments J.1-J.5 HOME

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 54 of 57

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 55 of 57

QUESTION LANDING PAGE

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 56 of 57

SCIENTIST LANDING PAGE

Smithsonian Institution Solicitation F11SOL10045 Page 57 of 57

RESEARCH PROJECT TEMPLATE

CONNECTIONS VIEW

