<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTBPDADF13CI0011.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FTBPDADF13CI0011.docx%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)

INTRODUCTION

The African Development Foundation (ADF) was created with the passage of the African Development Foundation Act passed in 1980. Since that time, the agency has been a direct supporter of grassroots economic development initiatives throughout the continent by issuing grants to small businesses and individuals for projects addressing local community needs.  Grants range from $4,000 to $250,000 and tend to focus on four key groups:

Agricultural Cooperatives and Small Scale Producer Groups

Community-Based Organizations (CBOs)

African Intermediary Organizations, and

Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs). 

ADF disburses roughly $18M-$20M in grant obligations each year and, with many of the grants spanning up to five years, has a total grant portfolio valued at approximately $62M. These figures suggest that at any given time, ADF is responsible for the management of upwards of 420 grants at various phases in their grants management lifecycle.

Grant-making at ADF is the intersection of programmatic activities and administrative operations. In order for the agency to fulfill its mission, these units must be able to coordinate their workload and maximize productivity without sacrificing service to grantees or grantee performance. In recent years, however, budget cuts and reductions in staffing levels have made this need more salient than ever. Declining staff capacity coupled with a fierce commitment to the agency’s mission requires a deeper examination of the organization’s grants management process to seek opportunities for process improvement.

ADF has made significant progress towards improving organizational efficiency. As of this solicitation’s release, the Agency has completed the process of outsourcing critical business functions in accounting, human resources, and procurement to the Administrative Resource Center (ARC) at Bureau of Public Debt (BPD).  This outsource arrangement offers ADF a robust level of service for functions that would typically require significant investments in human capital and technology beyond the capacity of an organization its size.

Despite these successes, significant challenges still remain.  The current Grants Management System (GMS), also known as “The Database,” can best be characterized as a costly legacy system which lacks much of the functionality of a full-featured GMS required by our programming staff.  In general, the GMS suffers from inflexible user roles, an inability to perform ad hoc queries on demand, double entry of budget and expense data, outdated organizational policies, and an unintuitive interface.  Additionally, The Database does not provide for sophisticated and centralized document storage, thus requiring a significant amount of manual processes and e-mail traffic.

ADF’s FY13 budget represents a reduction of approximately $6 million in administrative and programmatic services expenses from FY2012.  While overall administrative and programmatic budgets are decreasing, ADF is focused on strengthening the quality and performance in their grant-making abilities.  This requires that the agency find additional means of improving grants management efficiency among its programming staff.  

In Fiscal Year 2013, ADF conducted a Process Assessment of its end-to-end grant-making processes and existing core system.  Ultimately, the assessment sought to identify areas in which the agency could optimize its underlying business processes to achieve more efficient results.  It was determined that revamping some of the core functions associated with ADF’s grant-making operations and the implementation of a modernized GMS would significantly enhance the way in which ADF conducted its business.

In support of the “to be” business process, the agency intends to procure a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) product or Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution to manage the cradle to grave grant management lifecycle.  The “to be” system shall automate much of the manual processes currently in place at ADF and make available to ADF programming staff the latest features available in grant management software.

The future state of ADF’s grant-making environment will include a hosted COTS solution tailored for pre-award and post-award activities as well as performance management and completion activities.    This solution will be designed to:

Meet the growing demand for grassroots economic development grants in Africa; 

Comply with Federal regulations and address audit requirements; and 

Improve overall monitoring and oversight throughout the various stages of the grant-making life cycle.



To realize this vision, ADF seeks a Service Provider (SP) capable of delivering a comprehensive, end-to-end GMS solution to support the agency’s grant-making processes.



Background



ADF is a Federal grant-making public corporation and can be characterized as a small-agency with approximately 150 staff members both here and in Africa. Approximately 35 of these staff members are in Washington, DC. The rest are locally-hired contractors in 20 countries throughout Africa. The Foundation awards approximately 120 new grants each year valued at around $18 million. The life of ADF grants can range from 1 -5 years based on the value of the grant. ADF currently manages approximately 420 active grants valued at $62 million.



The current lifecycle of a grant is generally divided into the Pre-Award, Post-Award, and Completion phases.  Current work practices have generally become outdated and manual processes are often time-consuming, ineffectual, and prone to errors.  ADF seeks to improve its program performance, reduce paper usage, and streamline the grants management processes associated with each of these phases

In FY2013, the agency conducted a Process Assessment, activities of which included:

Analysis of the "As Is" state of the grants management business process and technology utilization; 

Identification of the Pain Points associated with each of the activities of the "As Is" grant-making lifecycle (Selection, Design, Review, etc.); and 

Design of a "To Be" state of the grant-making lifecycle that addresses the identified Pain Points. 



Service Providers are encouraged to review the attached Process Assessment document in order to gain a full understanding of the future of ADF’s grants management lifecycle.





ADF Organizational Structure

Since 2008, the African Development Foundation has made deliberate steps toward refining the organization’s operational strategy. Staff and functional team realignments were pursued with the goal of decreasing or, at the very least, maintaining administrative expenses while maximizing grant making activities. These changes have been ongoing with the latest round occurring as of September 2011. 

In October 2011, ADF realized a reduced internal staffing capacity with the departure of approximately 16 full time employees (FTEs) comprised of regular employees and contract staff. Along with staffing level changes, ADF outsourced critical business functions in accounting, human resources, and procurement to the Administrative Resource Center (ARC) at Bureau of Public Debt (BPD) of the U.S. Treasury. 

Agency administrative and management staff are skeletal but designed to provide the oversight needed to manage the interagency agreements (IAAs) with BPD. This structure offers ADF a robust level of service for functions that would typically require significant investments in human capital and technology beyond the capacity of an organization its size. The implemented grants management solution must be able to fit and function within this dynamic by avoiding duplication of materials, equipment, and/or supplies and supporting overall workforce planning efforts.

Most of ADF’s staffing, however, is dedicated to its programmatic activities and consists of regional grant-making and performance measurement.

A Regional Program Director (RPD) is assigned to a specific region in Africa and has direct supervisory responsibility over the Program/Portfolio Analysts (PA) in the region. The RPD coordinates his/her work with the Country Program Coordinator (CPC) and Partners to facilitate grantee selection and project development. Each RPD is ultimately responsible for meeting organizational targets for grant-making in his/her assigned region and overall project performance. 



Program/Portfolio Analysts conduct the day-to-day monitoring and compliance functions for funded projects. This group interfaces regularly with field office staff and partner organizations to ensure that all required documents (pre- and post-award) are received and reviewed at ADF. 



The Field Operations Development Analyst conducts training for program staff, including partners, to establish standards in project implementation (contained in the Partner Manual) and ensure consistency in monitoring and compliance activities across all levels of the organization. This role also manages the Self-Help Grants program. 



Partners are organizations operating in the country/region where ADF provides its grants. Their relationship with ADF is governed by a cooperative agreement that identifies the partner’s expectations and responsibilities. Partners are frequently the technical assistance provider for grantee organizations assisting them with preparation of pre-award materials and the final grant proposal. They are part of the monitoring team to ensure that grantees have the support necessary to be successful in carrying out the project objectives. 



Country Program Coordinators are the eyes and ears on the ground to represent ADF's interests in the field. The relationship with the CPCs has evolved over the past few years as their role is primarily utilized during the Selection phase and as needed for coordination of audits and/or site visits. Unlike Partners, CPC expenses are budgeted "above the line" as a direct operational expense. Field office connectivity requirements are managed by the Supervisory Information Technology Specialist. 



The figure below outlines the major offices within ADF that support grants processing and utilizes the Grants Management Database.





Technology Applications Portfolio

Core grants management transactions and cycles reside in several systems and platforms. These applications are a mix of Government Shared Services, COTS solutions and custom applications. The users currently rely on a combination of Grant Management System (“The Database”), Word, Excel & Outlook, Government-to-Government shared services (Oracle Federal Financials and Compusearch PRISM) to maintain a portfolio of roughly 400 grants.  ADF does not have a single system capable of integrating project information, performance indicators, and financial information to empower decision-makers. This separation of information and core business functions leads to untimely, inaccurate, redundant, and fragmented data for the business users. Complex interfaces, interdependent processing, and inadequate workflows are limitations imposed by ADF’s current array of stove-piped systems. ADF’s vision recommends a single integrated module for all core grants management transactions.

ADF currently uses a set of tools that includes the following major software to support its grants processing operations:

In-House Tools

Grants Management System also known as “The Database,” is a standalone web-based system introduced in 2005 designed to track disbursements on a line item basis.

HTML/CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, ASP.NET, VB.NET, and Transact-SQL are programming tools used to develop the Grants Management System.

Microsoft SQL Server is used as the repository database server for the Grants Management System.

Windows File System P: Drive is used for storing documents and other files related to ADF grants activities.

Microsoft IIS is employed as the web server for the web-based grants management system. 

MS Office Suite is used for creating documents, analyzing data, presenting and communicating content between ADF personnel. MS Excel specifically is used extensively to supplement the lack of project tracking and performance monitoring information available through the Grants Management System.

Government-to-Government (G2G) Shared Services

In an effort to reduce costs associated with its IT budget, ADF has elected to outsource some core financial management functions to U.S. Treasury Administrative Resource Center (ARC) at Bureau of Public Debt (BPD). Other outsourcing initiatives related to HR, Payroll, Travel, Security, etc. exist, however, the two described below represent those outsourced functions pertaining to the business of grants management.

Compusearch PRISM serves as the contract writing and acquisition management system for acquisition personnel.  It is also served as an interface to the Oracle Federal Financials (OFF) system that allows ADF staff to enter Purchase Requests and Purchase Orders.

Oracle Federal Financials is used for the management of financial transactions (i.e., purchasing, accounts payable/receivable, budget acquisition, fund commitment, and fund disbursement, etc.)

Oracle Discover Viewer is the only tool that is used to view data residing within the Oracle Federal Financials database.

Purpose

ADF has a need for a contractor to deliver a cost-effective web-based grants management solution capable of supporting ADF’s programming and administrative staff as well as grantees located throughout Africa.  The Contractor’s shall provide initial implementation costs and separately usage on a per-seat license basis.  Additionally, the Contractor shall possess the capability to host the solution either at their own facility or that of a third party hosting service provider.  The Contractor shall ensure that ADF’s staff members have the needed tools to deliver uncompromised service to the grantees in Africa.

The Contractor COTS solution shall provide ADF with the requirements as outlined in Section 6 with minimum customization.   

Scope of Work

As described above, ADF’s principal objective is to obtain a web-based GMS capable of managing the end-to-end grants management lifecycle.  The Contractor shall deliver the system and technical services necessary for a successful implementation as outlined in Sections 5 and 6.

The Contractor shall provide a GMS solution for ADF to administer five (5) types of grants:

Operational Assistance/Enterprise Development Investment Grants (OAG) are capacity building grants, and are typically two years in duration. The intent of an OAG is to move the Grantee to a greater state of readiness to effectively utilize a larger infusion of development capital. OAGs are typically higher risk grants because of the limited capacity of the group. Risk is reduced by limiting the size of an OAG to $100,000, or less, and more strictly focusing grant activities on capacity development in the areas of financial management and business growth planning. 



Enterprise Expansion Investment Grants (EEG) are larger (up to $250,000) development grants aimed at improving production capabilities and organizational revenues. EEGs typically span three to five years in duration with the majority of grant funds fully disbursed by the end of year three. The purpose of an EEG is to increase job opportunities and improve income levels for the group members. 



Self Help Grants are development grants (up to $20,000) that provide grassroots groups which do not have the experience to carry out larger development projects with an opportunity to gain those capabilities. ADF is partnering with the Ambassadors’ Special Self Help Programs in various African countries to better reach the shared goal of providing small grants for projects which marginalized community groups undertake to foster their own development. 



Small Special Grants are grants awarded that support projects such as small special travel grants, funding for intermediary organizations that fund marginalized groups that meet ADF selection criteria, and research efforts. 



Research Grants are grants (up to $250,000) for short-term and up to five year periods for African based and African conducted research activities that advance the identification of marginalized populations, improve small scale agricultural production techniques, and lead to benefits for marginalized populations in Africa.



The grants management lifecycle is divided into three phases with specific tasks provided for therein.  The GMS shall support the business functionality as described below.  Implementation of the system shall be tied to each of the below grant business phases.

Pre-award

Selection

Design

Review

Award

Post-award

Financial and Performance Management Process

Completion

Closeout

Archiving

Knowledge Management



The Contractor shall also provide business process and rules documents for each of the three phases listed above and deliver them in both soft and hard copy forms for approval by the ADF’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 

The contractor’s solution shall provide the necessary functionality associated with each phase either sequentially or concurrently.  

The Contractor shall also provide training sessions that coincide with each of the three lifecycle phases. Training sessions shall focus on each phase and shall include practice examples.  In many cases, the audience of 15 to 20 users will be different. Training shall be administered at ADF Headquarters.  At a minimum, the Contractor shall provide complete user manuals as written training material.   As part of training, the Contractor may include web-enabled or video conferencing.

The Contractor shall develop and maintain various plans, Status Reports, In-Process Reviews and Briefing Materials as required by the Deliverable Schedule (Attachment B).

Business Requirements

The Contractor’s solution shall fully support all functional requirements, processes and business rules listed in this section and shall serve as the system of record for ADF grants.  The Contractor’s solution shall support: 

Business Process To Be Implemented with the new GMS

The below sections illustrate each process of the grants management lifecycle.  The inclusion of this information is not intended to dictate the Contractor’s solution but is provided to ensure that the business functions are part of the Contractor’s solution. Therefore, the Contractor’s solution may not necessarily handle these functions identically to that which is being described, but shall demonstrate that the functionality is being provided.  

5.1.1	Selection Process

The Grantee or representative of the Partner Organization from the field submits a project application form through the Grantee portal.  The application is forwarded to ADF headquarters in Washington, D.C. for initial review.  

The Country Program Coordinator (CPC) begins reviewing the grantee profile and basic project information such as address, country, and certain project characteristics.  Once the profile is approved by the CPC, the grant application will appear on the RPD and PA dashboard as a portal to begin project planning discussions. 

The RPD completes a pre-screening checklist and authorizes the site visit. 

The CPC will receive an automatic notification that he/she has been authorized to conduct a site visit. Once the site visit is complete, the CPC will record this information into the system and the RPD and PA will be notified automatically that the project is awaiting review and authorization for design. 

If the project is not approved for design, the system will auto-generate a rejection letter to be printed and delivered by the CPC to the grantee. If the project is approved for design, the project will appear on the Partner’s dashboard for review/action and the project will be registered in the RPD’s pipeline.



5.1.2	Design Process

When the RPD issues authorization for design, the partner organization will receive notification on his/her dashboard that a project is ready to be viewed. The Partner Organization may then begin completing the revised project application, supporting compliance and due diligence documents entirely online. Uploaded materials are limited to documents that are produced and originated from the grantee (e.g., articles of incorporation, bank statements, etc.). These forms may be completed throughout the 120 day design phase and may be viewed by the PA and RPD at any point to monitor status of completion. 

Once all supporting information is obtained, the project is reviewed by the RPD/PA and approved for routing through ADF’s compliance review.   The RPD and PA, in consultation with the Partner Organization, set a reasonable first disbursement to be prepared against the approved budget prior to compliance review. 

This disbursement will not be paid out during design.  Payment is made once grant authorization has been received.



5.1.3	Review Process

The Review process allows the system’s workflow engine to automate review of the application and minimize the number of man hours required to coordinate this process. Since the project application, budget, site visit, compliance, and due diligence documentation is collected in the system during the Selection and Design process, it carries over to Review process which is solely focused on obtaining approvals and authorization to initiate a grant. 

The Review process begins once the RPD approves the project for compliance review at the end of the Design phase. Once this approval is received, the system will automatically generate a compliance review “package” and routes the package to the reviewers simultaneously. This point in the process is also an opportunity for integration with Oracle Federal Financials (OFF) to check for fund availability prior to moving forward to compliance reviewers. 

The system will also notify Finance to create the purchase request in OFF.  Once each reviewer has issued recommendations and entered comments, the package is routed to the RPD and PA for corrections. The RPD and PA work together, with the Partner Organization as needed, to address the reviewers’ concerns. 

The RPD then makes the decision whether or not to move the project forward for grant authorization.  If approved for grant authorization, the award documents are generated automatically and routed to ADF General Counsel to be reviewed for legal sufficiency. The finalized award documents are then routed to the President of ADF for final review and signature.



5.1.4	Award Process

The Award process consists of activities related to the initial obligation of the grant amount by ADF. 

After the partner receives notification that the signed award document(s) is/are available for viewing, he/she is responsible for obtaining the grantee’s signature. Once the grant agreement is signed it is uploaded to the system and routed to the PA for review and confirmation of signature. 

It is also at this point that the partner may enter the grantee’s bank data and upload the source document to the GMS which will be used by finance for verification. Once this review is complete, the grant is marked “active” and assigned a grant number consistent with the agency’s current sequential numbering system. 

Finance is notified to create a purchase order in OFF. When the bank data is entered, the first disbursement, which was prepared during the Design process, is pending. The first disbursement will then be processed in accordance with the usual payment workflow. 





5.1.5	Financial and Performance Management Process

As discussed in the Award process, full responsibility of all financial activities will be moved to the Finance department away from field operations.   Currently, the involvement of field operations staff is to allow for a “second set of eyes” or to transfer a document from the field to finance and back to RPD for approval. The workflow engine in the proposed system will move towards electronic routing and for data entry to occur in the field. 

The Contractor’s solution shall allow for the following process.

Partners will enter disbursement requests and quarterly reports directly into the system from the field. A disbursement request cannot be entered if the most recent quarterly reports are not entered in the system; the partner will be required to enter an outstanding report prior to submitting the disbursement request. From the point that the disbursement request is entered into the database, the relationship is established with ADF’s finance department for the completion of this task. As a validation measure, the document is automatically routed back to the partner if additional information is needed (budget shifts, error correction, etc.). 

After a full and complete disbursement has been approved by Finance, the PA is involved to provide an additional review and obtain any information needed to support his/her outcomes monitoring. Once the disbursement is approved, it is then routed to Finance and then to BPD for payment and recorded in OFF. It is a general assumption and requirement that the system will perform the necessary checks to determine budget compliance and funds availability at the category or line-item level as defined by the organization in the system’s business rules. Once the disbursement transaction has been successfully executed by BPD and recorded in OFF, the transaction will also be recorded automatically in the GMS and the disbursement request will be locked.

Likewise, monthly/quarterly reports may be entered by the Partner for review by all parties. Since no payment action is required, Finance reviews the financial components of quarterly/monthly reports for completeness and coordinates budget shifts via the routing and comments functions. Since the performance data is also entered directly into the database from the field, PAs will be notified when a report is available for viewing and may begin higher-level analyses of data received and coordinate with the Partner for additional information as necessary via the routing and comments functions. 

Budget shifts that are within the grantee’s expanded authorities are automatically routed to Finance without RPD approval. RPDs are required to issue approval on budget shifts beyond the grantee’s expanded authority limit. All budget shifts are recorded in the system with a modification number and each version is maintained for full viewing by all associated staff.

Beyond the submission of quarterly reports, budget amendments, and other modifications, the Contractor’s solution shall support ongoing financial and performance management through custom forms. Partners and CPCs are required to submit at least four (4) site visit reports outside of the initial site visit report prepared during the review phase. The Contractor’s solution shall be able to store this as a canned report and shall be accessible by staff in the field offices for completion and submission as required. Through business rules, ADF can establish a schedule to notify CPCs and partner’s when they are due and monitor completion. 



5.1.6	Closeout

Closeout shall begin with a notification on users’ dashboards that a closeout is pending in the next 90 days. PAs and partners will engage in conversations either through the system or via notes/comments on teleconferences to decide whether a project is ready to be closed out. If a project needs additional time, a time amendment will be initiated by the PA, approved by the RPD, routed to the appropriate reviewer (audit, legal, or CFO), signed by the President and then recorded as a modification to the existing grant.If closeout is pursued, the partner shall be notified of the closeout (via the system’s dashboard) and will be able to begin entering closeout data. 

The Contractor’s solution shall allow closeout data to remain the same as what is currently being obtained but shall also enable each document to be routed depending on the type of closeout it is associated with.  Required programmatic closeout documents (narrative reports from partners and PAs) are prepared in the system and will be routed to the RPD for review, comment, and approval. Once “approved” the programmatic closeout is complete. 

Meanwhile, the partner shall be able to enter the final quarterly report and the closeout expenditure report as two separate reports unlike the current practice which substitutes the closeout expenditure report for the final quarterly report. The partner shall also be able to  upload source documents such as bank statements and reconciliations to be reviewed by ADF HQ. 

If a final disbursement is required, the disbursement shall be auto-generated based on the final reports received from the partner/grantee and processed according to the procedures detailed under the Award phase. If funds are due to ADF, the PA will initiate reassignment of those funds according to ADF policy. Currently, if the project is an EDI and the grantee will be receiving an EEI, field operations staff will enter that funds were returned to ADF despite remaining with the partner as additional funding for the future project. Final disposition of funds, whether through write-off or collection, will be routed to the CFO for final review and approval. When the CFO issues approval on fund disposition the financial closeout is complete. The project is closed out in entirety when both the financial and programmatic closeout obligations are met.





5.1.7	Archiving Process

At present, all paper documents are printed and then forwarded to the records administrator who files the paper copies and scans the document for filing on the P: drive. With the implementation of a new grants management solution, the archiving process (as it relates to grants management) at ADF is radically simplified. The majority of “documents” shall be collected as data within the GMS system and then compiled in custom reports and routed to the records administrator electronically. This information can then be forwarded electronically or be printed and filed in a paper folder and forwarded to the off-site storage center or National Archives for long-term storage. The compile and export features of the Contractor’s solution will be used to export entire project data to support data backups and restore functions in the event of emergency or other interruption.



COTS Product Requirements

The below system requirements address the functionalities required by the Contractor’s GMS solution.  Support document assembly including import, export, and document selection.  The Contractor’s solution shall move ADF from a largely paper-based system to one that is primarily electronic. "Documents" will be compiled based on data that is inputted into the system and outputted as a report or query. Users will need to be able to retrieve the data as a single or series of reports, tables, etc. that can be exported and downloaded for later use.

Personalized User Dashboards/Workspace.  The system shall have the capability to provide each user within the ADF with a personalized dashboard/workspace upon entry to the system.  This dashboard shall offer a simple view of the work tasks assigned to the user and easy access to any on-going work.

Integration ability across platforms and agencies.  ADF's financial systems are maintained through a shared service agreement with BPD. Disbursement payments must go through ITS and SPS and are recorded in Oracle Federal Financials. As a result, the solution shall be able to support integration with off-site systems for both payment and reconciliation. The ability to integrate with financial management systems, other than OFF, is also necessary.

Workflow engine to support electronic routing.  The workflow engine shall allow ADF to design the workflow that a particular project will follow from selection through closeout.

Rule-Based Engine.  Currently, rules are hardcoded into the grant management database, which limits ADF's ability to make adjustments or modifications to grant processes without significant IT/developer involvement. The Contractor’s system shall establish rules that are configurable through a user interface not requiring developer involvement.  As such, these rules shall be maintained separately from the application's code. The rules engine shall be flexible enough to establish time sensitive and user-specific rules.

Allow creation of grantee, contractor, and vendor profiles. Users must be able to create profiles of new projects and establish relationships between users, projects, and vendors/partners within the solution. These profiles allow for storage of information related to the profile and supports search ability using the profile as query criteria.

Collaboration.  Enhanced workflow and rules engines shall provide additional transparency in management of grants and projects for all levels of the organization (managed through permissions). RPDs and PAs are better able to manage grants as a team through effective communication tools. Currently, this communication occurs via email with PAs and RPDs relying on email threads to get full information on actions related to a project. Collaboration tools (comments, notes, etc.) allow users to share information and updates within the portal and makes information accessible to all.

Audit Trail.  A general pain point noted in the process assessment is the lack of an audit trail within the existing grant management database. An audit trail shall allow users to view a record of all actions taken within the solution to easily identify status, task ownership, calculate cycle times, and monitor workflow.

Resource Allocation Tools.  A major part of managing workflow is knowing who is responsible for a given task and at which points that user assumes responsibility.   The Contractor’s solution shall include allocation tools that allow project managers/RPDs to assign team members to a project and then associate tasks with those individuals. This tool shall also give the agency additional insight into organizational/team workloads. Default resource allocation settings need to be maintained in the rules and workflow and can be able to be modified as needed.

Data Management.  ADF maintains a significant number of data elements (award details, grant types, characteristics, etc.) related to each project. However, there is currently no uniform method for the collection of this data. The solution shall offer the ability to collect, manage, and report on any number of data elements that are linked throughout the system. Administrators must be able to add additional elements through an administrator panel that does not require custom coding. 

System-generated Alerts, E-Mails, and Other Notifications.  The current grant management database uses permissions and restricts activities in order to ensure that other important functions are completed. A Contractor’s solution shall use system-generated alerts, emails, and other notifications to ensure that critical process functions/tasks are completed in a timely fashion. The administration of these alerts (timing, frequency, etc.) shall be managed in the rules and workflow settings. 

Data mapping for pre- and post-award functions.  A significant amount of project/award data is received during the pre-award phase. This data must carryover to post-award functions within the solution to limit the need for re-entry. 

Maintain repository of pre-designed template and forms.  All projects require many of the same documents to support project and compliance management. These templates will be stored in the Contractor’s solution and be capable of being merged with data extracted from the database to produce official documents. This helps to ensure standardization and consistency in reporting across projects.

Allow Creation of Organizational, Employee, and Business Unit Profiles.  Users must be able to create profiles of new projects and establish relationships between users, projects, and vendors/partners within the solution. These profiles allow for storage of information related to the profile and should support search ability using the profile as query criteria.

Support Ability to Have Multiple Applications.  At any given time, ADF may have a portfolio of more than 400 active grants requiring management. In addition, the agency receives a varying number of grant applications at each quarter to support RPD pipeline development. As a result, the solution shall be able to handle multiple application proposals and several hundred active grants simultaneously.

Acknowledgement of receipt of application submission.  Electronic notification capability shall include notifications regarding application status.

Canned and Ad-Hoc Reporting.  Much of ADF's grants management is supported by standard forms and reports. Users have individualized approaches to project management that may require additional custom reports as needed. The solution shall offer the flexibility to store standard templates and forms and allow creation of custom reports on the fly. 

Rigorous error checking and prevention.  The Contractor’s solution shall possess the ability to control for errors beyond hard-coding the rules in the database.  For example, the system shall have the proper logic to check for errors such as missing information or non-numeric characters in a numeric field.  Additionally, the system shall  validate the information entered against the applicable, underlying business rules.  

Highly Configurable (forms, process, workflow, etc.).  The Contractor’s solution shall include expanded involvement of field office staff in application development and project management functions. It is also anticipated that the new solution will feature a greater ability for input and reporting of performance data. As such, the solution shall have the flexibility to create new forms and implement new workflows that best support the ADF process.

Support e-signatures.  Since all forms shall be completed electronically, the solution shall support electronic signatures of official documents included in the process workflow. This will help limit the opportunity for paper-based transactions to occur outside of the solution and ensure that all project documentation is retained within the database.

Line Item Budget Management.  A significant portion of ADF's program implementation incorporates budget management at a line-item level. The solution shall be able to support budget development, modifications, and ongoing management with robust tools.

Support Local Currency Units. Grantee budgets, at this time, are awarded and disbursed using the grantee’s local currency units. The Foundation is in process of moving toward awarding grants in US dollars.  The Contractor’s solution must be able to handle and process both approaches as there will be a multiyear transition period as prior local currency grants implement and close while new grants are awardee in USD.  All obligations are made in USD regardless of the award currency.  Grant budgets must be traceable in USD and local currency and the Contractor’s solution must have an automatic currency conversion capacity and appropriate business rules.   The solution shall have the ability to manage multiple currencies at the award and each disbursement level. The Foundation at this time works with approximately 11 local currencies and this number will likely expand in the future.

Create, edit, save, retrieve, preview/print and submit application.  Project data may be entered by various users and different points in the project development and implementation lifecycle. The Contractor’s solution shall allow users to create, edit and save progress for applications. Other user permissions related to project development would be managed in role-based security settings.

Customizable user interface (UI).  User satisfaction and the long-term success of the database is also dependent upon how well users are able to interact with the solution. The UI shall be customizable to meet the changing business and process requirements of ADF.

Drill-Down Capability. The Contractor’s solution shall provide users with the ability to drill-down to the lowest level on selected data elements and to drill down from high level summary data to more detailed information throughout the system.

Support uploading of documents (pdf, word, excel, images, etc.).  The Contractor’s solution throughout the business processes shall allow users to upload and associate supporting documents to grant/grantee profiles.

Section 508 Compliance.  Section 508 requires that federal agencies make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities.  The proposed solution shall meet Section 508 accessibility standards.

Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Security Controls.  The solution shall maintain proper security controls and monitoring in order to be compliant with FISMA regulations. The proposed integration with shared services financial systems will require strict compliance with FISMA, particularly with the use of this solution by individuals that are not employees of ADF. In addition, the solution shall be hosted in an environment that has been solely maintained for U.S. Federal customers.

Quality Control/Management plans 



 The Contractor shall submit the following plans to ADF as indicated in the Deliverable Schedule.



Quality Control Plan (QCP)



The Contractor shall develop, maintain and implement a comprehensive QCP that includes the following:

Identify tasks and responsibilities relevant to the services provided. 

A strategy for ensuring that all requirements of the contract are met;

Key management controls relative to data integrity;

A plan for development and maintenance of Interface Control Documents that serve as agreements between interfacing entities and provides, at a minimum: frequency, data descriptions and file layouts, security measures to be taken, and other data as agreed to by ADF and the Contractor; 

A procedure for information security and consistency of service;

A plan for corrective actions when deficiencies or insufficient performance results are identified; and

Information as to how the Contractor will ensure that Contractor employees adhere to high ethical standards.

 The Contractor shall also

Identify and conduct quality control reviews to ensure continuity during the life of the contract. 

Document quality control procedures in the QCP and on a monthly basis, 

Record the results of quality control reviews in a Quality Control Summary Report, and submit the QCP for review and acceptance by the COR within 10 business days of the post award meeting. 

The goal of the QCP is to verify that all deliverables and work products meet all of the project requirements, and that a repeatable, measurable process has been followed in their creation. 

The QCP is considered a living document and as such, shall be revised by the Contractor. All changes to the QCP must be accepted in writing by the COR in advance of implementation.

The QCP shall include sections or sub-plans that address contingency planning and business continuity, risk management, security and a quality control for ensuring business processes meet stated requirements.

Implementation Plan

The Implementation Plan describes all activities, schedules, resources, and support planning efforts that will be employed to accomplish the transition from the current processes to the Contractor’s solution. The Contractor shall deliver a draft Implementation Plan to the COR at the post award conference and shall work with ADF staff and the support contractor, during the first fifteen days (15) days following contract award to finalize the plan. 

It is important to note that the Government does not prescribe exactly what or how the implementation must be carried out by the Contractor.  The Contractor shall utilize its best practices to deploy its solutions in a seamless manner within the allotted schedule with minimal disruption to ADF staff handling day-to-day business responsibilities. The Government will designate a Lead from each business group to work side-by-side with the Contractor and assist the Contractor during the Implementation phase.  This will ensure all information will be furnished to the Contractor in a timely manner.

Operations Performance Plan



To support monitoring of the performance of the Contractor’s functions, the Contractor shall develop and implement a plan to monitor all aspects of the service (i.e., operational response times, helpdesk response rates, resolution rates, abandonment rates, customer satisfaction level, etc.).  The Contractor shall determine additional measures that are critical to the successful performance of the work. The plan shall describe the technical approach and manual or automated tool(s) to be used to monitor performance and provide a format for operational reporting. 



Contingency/Business Plan



The accuracy and availability of the Contractor is critical to the integrity and financial stability of ADF’s grants management business. Time is of the essence in restoring service in any and all instances where the Contractor is unable to deliver the services required under this contract. 

As part of the QCP, the Contractor shall develop, maintain and implement a Contingency/Business Continuity Plan that addresses the gravest as well as the most likely problems that might arise and the SP’s planned response to the adverse events. At a minimum, the plan shall cover: response to serious natural disaster as it affects the service; power outages; computer viruses, information piracy; actual or suspected security breaches and major equipment or server failure.



Security Plan



The Security Plan shall document the procedures or actions utilized by the Contractor that will assure the protection and securing of ADF information.  Additionally, the Security Plan shall address security controls associated with FISMA compliance and timely reporting of security incidents.









Service Requirements

	

Quality Control and Summary Reports



The Contractor shall conduct regular quality control reviews in accordance with its QCP. 



No later than the tenth (10) calendar day of each month, the Contractor shall provide the COR with a monthly report summarizing the results of its QC findings including any policy, procedural, personnel or changes or corrective actions taken as a result of the QC findings. The Contractor shall establish a folder in the GMS where monthly Quality Control Summary Reports shall be posted.

The Quality Control Summary Report, shall include a section detailing the results of the Contractor’s performance of all standards identified in the Operations Performance Plan.



Weekly Meetings and Status Reports



During implementation, ADF, the Contractor and contracted support shall participate in regular weekly in-process review meetings at ADF Headquarters.  Once the Conversion process is complete and the service is in full operational mode, these meetings will occur monthly or as required by the government. In preparation for the in-process review meetings, the Contractor shall prepare an agenda no later than one business day prior to the meeting, and bring copies to the meetings. The items to be included on the agenda shall be agreed upon by the Contractor and the ADF Project Manager. 



No later than two (2) business days following the meetings, the Contractor shall prepare minutes showing all items discussed during the meeting, any action items that were assigned, to whom they were assigned and when they were scheduled for resolution. No later than one business day prior to the status meetings, the Contractor shall deliver a Status Report that shows the status of all work being done on the contract, and that tracks all action items that arose as a result of previous meetings. Status Reports and In-Process Review Minutes shall be delivered via e-mail to COR.



Briefing Materials



During the performance of the contract, briefings will be required to be delivered to upper-level management or users affected by the implementation of the new service. The Contractor shall work with the ADF Project staff to develop materials (PowerPoint presentations, Change Management documents, etc.) that will assist ADF in educating interested parties on the status and benefits of the service. The Contractor may also be required to assist ADF Project Staff with meeting preparations and be on hand to answer questions that may arise during the briefing. Once approved, Briefing Materials should be delivered via e-mail to the COR.



User Guide



The Contractor shall provide to ADF a complete set of user documents for all classes of users and covering all screens or web pages used to communicate with the service. These documents, in draft form, shall be completed and approved by the COR before they are used for training. These documents shall be finalized after initial training and shall be updated as appropriate whenever the Contractor releases an upgrade, enhancement, or patch. ADF will own these documents during this contract and after the termination of this contract. These user guides shall fully explain the functionality and use of the service, including screen shots and navigation, data input and reporting features, implicit business rules and validation edits, etc.



Corrective Actions



When defective performance is noted through ADF’s quality assurance activities, ADF may request that the Contractor correct the defective performance. The Contractor shall, no later than five (5) business days following receipt of ADF’s notice of defective performance, respond in writing to this request, describing the corrective actions taken, or to be taken, and when any outstanding corrective actions will be completed. If corrective action is not implemented, ADF reserves the right to take other remedies permitted by the contract.



General REQUIREMENTS



PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The Contractor shall work on-site to interview ADF staff for the purposes of gathering functional requirement information and performing other necessary pre-implementation activity.  System implementation is expected to be performed both on-site at ADF’s facility in Washington, DC as well as at the Contractor’s own facility.  



Staffing and Key Personnel



Should there be a change in key personnel during the contractual relationship, the Contractor shall provide a replacement that meets or exceeds the capabilities required to accomplish the tasks set forth in this contract.  The contractor shall request and receive approval for the replacement from the COR in advance of any work being done on the contract by the proposed replacement.   

The Contractor shall immediately notify the COR upon termination of any employee with security access to ADF systems and environment. 

The Contractor shall not indicate that it represents ADF; instead, it shall clearly state that it is under contract with ADF.

Office Facilities

CONTRACTOR FURNISHED PROPERTY

The Contractor shall maintain a business office appropriately staffed and equipped with computers, copying machines, software, hardware, servers, etc. Software utilized by the Contractor shall be compatible with ADF’s computer environment. Software currently used includes Microsoft word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access and Adobe Acrobat PDF. 



GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP)



During the implementation when the Contractor is working at ADF’s facility, ADF will provide the Contractor with appropriate office space, supplies, and equipment for official use only.

The Contractor shall notify ADF as to the number of staff expected to work on-site at ADF during implementation.  



Business Hours

The Contractor shall be available during normal business hours – Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., e.t.   If a meeting or telephone conference is required, it will be held in a location and at a time designated by the COR. 



Communications Log

The Contractor shall maintain a copy of all written correspondence and maintain an electronic log listing the source, subject, date received, response and resolution date of each written, e-mail or telephonic communication received. The Communications Log shall be updated daily and be available on-line. 



Collaboration

The Contractor shall be involved with the system implementation,  The Contractor shall also provide operation and maintenance support and work collaboratively with the COR.   This collaboration will include day-to-day activities, planning, development, knowledge transfer and creating and sharing documentation.



Governmental Inquiries

The Contractor shall notify the COR within twenty-four (24) hours following receipt of any request for information from an elected or public official.  Responses shall be coordinated with the ADF COR typically no later than two (2) business days after notification of ADF by the Contractor.    Generally, such responses shall be from ADF and not the Contractor. 

Other Correspondence

Unless otherwise indicated, the Contractor shall in response to correspondence received from ADF provide written information to the COR or other designated ADF representative no later than five (5) business days of ADF's request for information. 



Written Notice

Except as otherwise provided herein, all references to delivery or receipt of written notice between the Contractor and ADF will include notice delivered or received by electronic transmission. If ADF permits electronic transmissions between the Contractor and a Third Party other than ADF, the transmissions shall comply with standards regarding confidential communications and data encryption standards in accordance with those described in the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act. 



Annual Audit Requirement

Annually, no later than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of each option year, the Contractor shall furnish the COR with a current audited financial statement prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). 

Un-audited or compilation financial statements will not be accepted. The Government will use this information to determine the Contractor’s financial responsibility and ability to continue to perform under the contract. Failure of the SP to comply with this requirement will subject the SP to possible rejection on responsibility grounds. 





Security

Security Access



Personnel Security and Suitability Requirements for Contractors and Subcontractors 13-053



A.	GENERAL



The government has determined that performance of this contract requires that the Contractor, subcontractor(s), and vendor(s) (herein known as Contractor), requires access to Sensitive but Unclassified (SBU) information (herein known as unclassified information) and the contract was evaluated as "High Risk."  All contractor and subcontractor personnel who require access to work under this contract shall be United States Citizens.  



The Contractor will abide by the requirements set forth in the Non-Disclosure Agreement (Attachment C), included in the contract, for the protection of unclassified information at its cleared facility.  If the Contractor has access to unclassified information at the BFS or other Government Facility, it will abide by the requirements set by that agency.



B.	SUITABILITY DETERMINATION



Contractor personnel, assigned to this contract, even those who possess a National Security Clearance, will not need access to classified information, although they must undergo suitability screening conducted by the Office of Security.  BFS shall have and exercise full control over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating unescorted government facility and/or sensitive Government information access for these contractor employees, based upon the results of a background investigation. 



C.	BACKGROUND



Addendum to AB No. 05-12R1



Performance of this contract requires contractor and subcontractor personnel to sign and submit an NDA, have an appropriate level background investigation initiated, and a favorable FBI fingerprint check completed before being allowed unsupervised logical or physical access to Government facilities or IT systems and information.  All contractor and subcontractor personnel working under this contract will be US citizens.



A Federal Government issued personnel identification card must be issued before unsupervised physical access to a government facility or logical access to Government IT system or information is permitted. The Contracting Officer Representative (COR) will be the sponsoring official and will coordinate with Personnel Security to arrange the background investigation and credentialing process. 



At least two weeks before start of contract performance, the Contractor will identify all contractor and subcontractor personnel who will require physical and/or logical access for the performance of work under this contract.  Identified contractor and subcontractor personnel will complete and return the below listed documents to the COR.  The Contractor must make all contractor and subcontractor personnel available at the place and time specified by the COR in order to initiate the credentialing process.

  

	  Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigation Processing 		(e-QIP) portal to provide historical background information for background 				investigations:

		 

	  OF 306 (fillable forms available at: 		

		)

     	  Fair Credit Reporting Release Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)



At minimum, a Background Investigation (BI) level case, which satisfies HSPD-12 background investigation requirements, will be completed for the applicable contractor and subcontractor personnel.  This process provides the government with a means to positively identify and make a suitability determination regarding the applicant under this contract.  If it is determined that the sensitivity of the accessed government information warrants further investigations, a higher level investigation will be conducted.  If the government information accessed by Contractor or subcontractor personnel is determined to be Critical-Sensitive, it may be required that the Background Investigation be fully completed and favorably adjudicated prior to granting contractor or subcontractor personnel with access.  



Contractor and subcontractor personnel are required to give full, frank, and truthful answers to relevant and material questions needed to reach a suitability determination.  Refusal or failure to furnish or authorize provision of information may constitute grounds for denial or revocation of credentials.  The Government's investigative personnel may contact the contractor and subcontractor personnel being screened or investigated in person, by telephone, or in writing.  The contractor will ensure that all contractor and subcontractor personnel are available for such contact and that timely responses to investigative requests are provided.



Alternatively, if it is verified that an individual is already vetted by another agency at the appropriate level of background investigation, and the investigation was completed less than five (5) years prior to the start of the contractor's initial logical/physical access date, then further investigation may not be necessary.  If this is applicable, provide the COR with the name of the agency that conducted the investigation and completion date, if known.



If at any point during this process investigative results are unfavorably adjudicated, the individual will be denied further admittance to work on the contract, including both physical and/or logical access.  In the event of a disagreement between the Contractor and the Government concerning the suitability of an individual to perform work under this contract, the Government shall have the right of final determination.



During performance of the contract, the Contractor will keep the COR apprised of any changes in personnel to ensure that work performance is not delayed by compliance with credentialing process.  Identification cards that are lost, damaged, or stolen must be reported to the COTR and Issuing Office within 18 hours.  Replacement will be at the Contractor's expense.  If re-issuance of expired credentials is needed, it will be coordinated through the COR.



At the end of the contract performance, or when a contractor employee is no longer working under this contract, the contractor will ensure that all identification cards are returned to the COR.  If the contractor does not return all identification cards then last payment may be withheld.



This requirement must be incorporated into any subcontracts that require subcontractor personnel to have regular and routine unsupervised physical access to a federally controlled facility for six (6) months or more, or any unsupervised logical access to a federally controlled information system.  



Physical Access:  Is the ability to enter a federally owned facility or federally leased space:

	-  If federal space is limited to a portion of a building then HSPD-12 applies 	

	   only to that portion owned or leased by the federal government.

   	-  Physical access requirements do not apply to:

	  	Contractors (permanent, intermittent, temporary or seasonal), guests 

	    	researchers, and volunteers needing access for less than six (6) months

Logical Access:  Ability to access federal IT systems or databases – applies to everyone regardless of how long access is required and whether within a federal facility or by remote connectivity.



The Contractor shall provide written notification to the COR no later than one (1) business day of termination or resignation of any employee granted ADF systems access or when there is no longer a need for access to ADF systems by any Contractor employee. 



The Contractor shall maintain an up-to-date list that identifies contract employees with access to each of the information systems and the justification for each employee’s level of access. The Contractor shall not provide access to individuals until the COR provides written authorization. The Contractor shall provide access to users identified by ADF without imposing additional access requirements.



Equipment Security and Safeguards



The Contractor shall comply with Federal requirements for records storage according to the National Archives Records Management Handbook . 



Information Security



Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees or affiliates will disclose, or cause to be disseminated, any information relating to the services hereunder to any person other than to  Contractor employees working on this contract, to ADF staff, and to the support contractor as directed by the COR. Failure to safeguard any sensitive information that may come to the Contractor or any person under his/her control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the Contractor or its agents or employees to financial or criminal liability. 

availability and support

Software “Up” Time AND RESPONSE

The vendor’s solution shall be up (i.e., accessible) on a 24x7 basis, including all weekdays, weekends, and holidays recognized by the Federal Government.  In the event that the system is inaccessible, non-responsive, or experiencing significant technical defects, the Contractor shall be available to respond to and resolve service related emergencies after regular business hours.  The Contractor shall ensure availability to after-hour inquiries and ensure that response services to system emergencies are available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days per week, including recognized Federal holidays.  The Contractor shall ensure system configuration and capacity is sufficient to provide for functional user experience for transactions, queries, reports, and batch processing.



Response Time



The Contractor shall provide prompt, courteous and accurate response to all inquiries. The Contractor shall respond to telephone inquiries within four (4) hours of an inquiry being made or a trouble ticket being opened but no later than one (1) business day of the date the call was placed to the Contractor’s office or the expiration of such shorter or longer period of time expressly authorized or required by this PWS. The Contractor shall respond to written and electronic inquiries no later than two (2) business days following receipt of the inquiry or the expiration of such shorter or longer period of time expressly authorized by the CFO. 



Customer Support/Help Desk 



The Contractor shall operate a Help Desk to provide assistance to the users, administrators, and auditors relative to the operation of the Contractor. In addition to the requirements contained in sections 9.3, 11.1 and 11.2 of the PWS, the Contractor shall ensure that Help Desk hours include normal ADF business hours, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., e.t.  at a minimum.  The Contractor shall ensure to the extent practicable that issues are resolved on the first call and that customers receive a response within four (4) hours.



Address/Resolve/Refer User Problems



In operating the Help Desk, the Contractor shall provide support for answering a query or opening a trouble ticket, classifying a problem against a Contractor-proposed protocol, based on problem criticality and severity, tracking the resolution of queries or trouble tickets, performing problem resolution and escalation, reporting general program status, and answering technical questions. 

Help Desk personnel will be required to guide users step-by-step through the problem solving process from problem diagnosis through problem resolution. The Contractor’s phone operators shall have on-line, read-only access to data to facilitate responses to callers. The Contractor shall refer questions of a policy nature to the COR. 

The Contractor shall develop written procedures and provide the COR with a copy of its Help Desk Procedures for approval no later than ninety (90) calendar days following contract award.

Answer and Record User Calls 



The Contractor shall document each user call and follow-up with users, as required to ensure timely problem resolution and satisfactory customer support. When a problem has been resolved by the Help Desk, the Contractor shall document the corrective action(s) taken and indicate that the problem has been closed satisfactorily. 

For tracking purposes, the Contractor shall categorize and record call by type and other demographics that the Contractor determines to be valuable. 

All calls and inquiries will be logged and reported in the quarterly Help Desk Status Report.

Notification of System Non-availability

Those problems requiring an interruption of service to ADF users shall be reported by the Contractor to the GTR with a written plan for resolving the problem. Whenever the Contractor is unavailable during normal operational hours, the Contractor shall notify ADF users by contacting the appropriate points of contact. A list of contact points will be provided by the COR at the time of contract award.



Help Desk Information Distribution



The Contractor shall distribute informational materials via e-mail such as “quick tips” or “frequently asked questions” to assist ADF users.



Quarterly Help Desk Status Report



The Contractor shall monitor and report Help Desk status to the COR. This shall include a daily check of help desk status, reporting on problem categories, problem resolution times, and problem severity levels and recommendations on ways to reduce recurring problems. The Contractor shall include this information in the quarterly Help Desk Status Report.

Specific Phases and Tasks

Implementation Phase

Completion of Implementation Plan

The revised Implementation Plan to be delivered at the end of this Phase shall serve as a blueprint for completing the transition from the existing automated and manual ADF grant-making processes to the Contractor. 

This version of the Implementation Plan shall be delivered to the COR no later than the fifteenth (15th) calendar day following the contract award. At a minimum the Implementation Plan shall: 

Identify each step in the work process required for completing the transition and the period of time needed to accomplish each step, expressed in terms of calendar dates 

Describe the planned schedule and the approach for each task Identify the staff and the other resources allocated to each task 

Describe the rationale for project organization, staff utilization, and other resources allocated to each task or activity 

Define the support activities, schedules, curriculum, methods and tools, and equipment required for training

At the completion of each major stage of the implementation plan the contractor shall provide a brief verification status reports that describes how the completion of the major task/ phase was verified.

Functional Requirements

At the outset of the contract, the Contractor shall meet with ADF to begin a series of face-to-face or telephonic meetings to review and refine the final business requirements, interface protocols and business rules. 

The Contractor’s solution shall be fully tested and certified by the Contractor that it complies with all of the requirements described herein. Issues that are discovered during the Analysis and Planning phase shall be corrected prior to implementation of the system. 

No later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of contract award, the Contractor  shall provide a full list of functional requirements associated with the business processes and rules for the Pre-Award, Post-Award, and Completion activities.

Installation

The Contractor shall establish and maintain separate environments for development, testing, and production.  New functionality shall be introduced in development, accepted in test, and eventually deployed in production.  

The Contractor shall host all environments at its site or a third party’s site.  The production site shall be hosted with a Contractor that has the FedRAMP authorization from the General Services Administration.  

Presently, the following are the FedRAMP compliance service providers: Amazon Web Services, CGI Federal and Autonomic Resources, LLC.  Non-production sites may be hosted at the Contractor’s site if it is more cost effective for ADF 

Configuration

Once the analysis and planning phase and installation of the COTS are complete, the Contractor shall proceed with configuration of the system.  The Contractor shall perform the necessary configuration to get the Contractor’s software to adapt and satisfy ADF’s “to be” business requirements.  Databases and other parameters need to be initialized; reports and screens shall be configured to support the following “to be” processes as described in Section 5:

Pre-award

Selection

Design

Review

Award

Post-award

Financial and Performance Management Process

Completion

Closeout

Archiving

Knowledge Management

Integration

No later than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date of contract award and  in accordance with the approved Implementation Plan, the Contractor shall establish data exchange capability  with BPD Oracle Federal Financials and OANDA financial services website.

Data Conversion

The Contractor, with the assistance of ADF personnel, shall be responsible for preparing the active and inactive grant data for conversion, currently residing in ADF database, no later than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date of contract award. The Contractor shall: 

Document the data conversion activities;

Analyze existing data to identify necessary cleansing prior to conversion; 

Work with ADF staff to develop a data cleansing plan; 

Execute the data cleansing in conjunction with or before the data conversion process; 

Produce a plan to be performed for the purpose of assessing whether the ADF data has been converted properly including the criteria for making the determination;

Modify the data conversion assessments until the results are satisfactory; 

Execute the conversion assessment plan; and 

Do all other things necessary to ensure that the conversion of ADF data is successfully achieved. 

The Contractor warrants that the ADF data, when migrated in accordance with the requirements herein, will accurately reflect the data that existed prior to migration with corrections and that it will comply with the requirements as specified herein. In the event that the ADF data is amended or otherwise edited or enhanced in the course of or before the data conversion process, the Contractor warrants that the ADF data when migrated complies with the specifications as described herein.

Production Assessment

No later than 10 days after the completion of implementation in the production environment, the Contractor shall certify for the COR that all verification activities are complete and the service is ready for Live Operations.  The Contractor shall handle all the tasks involved in making the system “Live.”.

Operational Phase

The Contractor’s interaction with ADF staff shall sharply reduce once the system has been fully implemented and integrated. During this phase, the Contractor shall provide continued hosting and help desk support. 

The Contractor shall provide initial training services to both ADF end users as well as a designated ADF Application Administrator.  End user training shall focus on operational processes and performing core grant making functions with the new system.  

The Contractor may be required to provide training to new employees at ADF or provide refresher courses for existing users as requested by ADF.  Training for ADF’s Application Administrator shall focus on approving system users, basic system configuration, testing procedures, and other functions typically handled by an Application Admin.Schedule of Deliverables

This section outlines the schedule of deliverables. All such deliverables shall be provided to the COR. 






Performance requirements summary (prs)

The PRS is a summary that identifies the performance requirements that are the most critical to minimizing risks and maximizing returns during the Operational phase of the contract; therefore, these requirements are the focus of quality assurance activities to be addressed in the Quality Control Plan.  

The below table includes information about the frequency of surveillance, and the rate to which the Contractor shall meet the performance requirements. The PRS will assist ADF in ensuring that the appropriate performance standards are being measured and will provide standards against which the Contractor shall monitor its own performance.





Title of Deliverable

Due Date

Unit and Quality



IMPLEMENTATION PHASE





IMPLEMENTATION PHASE





IMPLEMENTATION PHASE



Quality Control/Management Plan



Sec 7

Within 15 days after award, then at the end of each month 

1 Set Initial Documents 

11 Monthly Updates



Weekly Status Reports 



Sec 8.2

COB Weekly on Fridays 

52 Status Reports 

In-Process Review Meeting Agendas and Minutes 



Sec 4, Sec 7.1

Weekly Meetings

52 Agendas and Review  Minutes 



Briefing Materials 



Sec. 8.3

As Needed 

4 Presentations 

Functional Requirements  Completed

1) Pre-Award,

2) Post-Award, and

3) Completion



Sec 4, Sec 12.1.2

Within 30 days after contract award  

3 Business Process and Rules Documents   



Pre-Award Phase Implemented 



Section 5.1.1 – 5.1.4

Within 60 days after award 

Selection

Design

Review

Award

Post-Award Phase Implemented 



Sec 5.1.5

Within 90 days after award 

Financial and Performance Management Process



Completion Phase Implemented 



Sec 5.1.6 – 5.1.7

Within 120 days after award 

Closeout

Archiving

Knowledge Management



Integration with Federal Systems Implemented



Sec 12.1.5

Within 120 days after award 

Integration with Federal Systems Status Report 



Data Conversion Completed



Sec 12.1.6

Within 120 days after award 

Data Conversion Status Report









Verification of the Completion of each Phase Completed

Sec 12.1.1





Within 7-14 days before each implementation 

Verification Status Report

Training Developed and Executed 

1) Pre-Award,

2) Post-Award, and

3) Completion 



Sec 4

Within 7-14 days before each implementation 

4 Training Sessions plus written Training materials   

Production Assessment 

1) Pre-Award,

2) Post-Award, and

3) Completion



Sec 12.1.7

Within 10 days after the completion of implementation in Production

Assessment Report plus implementation of corrections 



Production Assessment Discrepancies and Performed full Implementation



Sec 12.1.7



Within 120 days after award 

Correct Discrepancies Convert Data and cutover to full Operational Mode 









OPERATIONAL PHASE







OPERATIONAL PHASE







OPERATIONAL PHASE



24x 7 Operations Services Availability & Operational Updates 

Sec 11.1, 11.2, 11.6, 12.2

On-Going 

System Notifications and  Operational Updates  

Help Desk Support

Sec 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.8

On-Going 

Quarterly Help Desk Status Reports  







Performance Measure 



Quality Assurance Procedure 



Frequency 



Minimum Satisfactory Rating 

1 

System is available to all authorized end-users 



Sec 11.1

COR verification via operational reports generated by the Contractor’s tool(s) and Help Desk quarterly Reports.

Annual 

99.5% for up-time - based on the working hours of a month 

2 

System response at an acceptable level of performance in terms of transaction processing, reporting, query and batch processing as proposed and accepted in the Quality Control Plan 

Sec 11.1

COR verification via operational reports generated by the Contractor’s tool(s) and Help Desk quarterly Reports.

Annual 

Target transaction processing response times are met at least 95% of the time; exclusive of any latency in ADF’s network or the Internet or other environmental factor outside of the Contractor’s control 

3 

Help Desk responds to user inquiries or trouble tickets within 4 hours of the inquiries being made or the trouble tickets being opened


Sec 11.2 

Help Desk quarterly Reports 





Quarterly 

Response times are met at least 95% of the time; exclusive of any ADF’s specific factor outside of the Contractor’s control

4 

Incident Report documenting Security Breach/Violations 



Sec 7.5

Security Incident Reports 

Quarterly 

100% of known or knowable incidents reported on a timely basisConditional Access to Sensitive but Unclassified Information

Non-Disclosure Agreement



I, ____________________________, hereby consent to the terms in this Agreement in consideration of my being granted conditional access to certain United States Government documents or material containing sensitive but unclassified information.  



I understand and agree to the following terms and conditions:



1. 	By being granted conditional access to sensitive but unclassified information, the United States Government has placed special confidence and trust in me and I am obligated to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.



2.  	As used in the Agreement, sensitive but unclassified information is any information the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. 522a, but which has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.



3. 	I am being granted conditional access contingent upon my execution of this Agreement for the sole purpose of      .  This approval will permit me conditional access to certain information,      and/or to attend meetings in which such information is discussed or otherwise made available to me.



4.  	I will never divulge any sensitive but unclassified information that is provided to me pursuant to this Agreement to anyone unless I have been advised in writing by Bureau of the Public Debt or in the case of bureau sensitive but unclassified information released to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) or Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), in accordance with a written arrangement related to the official audit/investigative functions of the OIG or TIGTA for that particular matter). Should I desire to make use of any sensitive but unclassified information, I will do so in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Agreement. I will submit to Bureau of the Public Debt for security review, prior to any submissions for publication, any book, article, column or other written work for general publication that is based upon any knowledge I obtained during the course of my work on      to ensure that no Bureau of Public Debt sensitive but unclassified information is disclosed.



5.	I hereby assign to the United States Government all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted, will result or may result from any disclosure, publication, or revelation of sensitive but unclassified information not consistent with the terms of this Agreement.



6. 	Upon signing this non-disclosure agreement, I will be permitted access to official

Bureau of Public Debt documents containing sensitive but unclassified information and understand that any copies must be protected in the same manner as the originals. Any notes taken during the course of such access must also be protected in the same manner as the originals.



7. 	If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I understand that the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive but unclassified information could compromise Bureau of the Public Debt security.  



8. 	If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such violation may result in the cancellation of my conditional access to sensitive but unclassified information. This may serve as a basis for my being denied conditional access to Bureau of Public Debt or other Treasury bureaus’ information, both classified and sensitive but unclassified information in the future. If I violate the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the United States may institute a civil action for damages or any other appropriate relief.  The willful disclosure of information to which I have agreed herein not to divulge may constitute a criminal offense.



9.  	Unless and until I am provided a written release by the African Development Foundation from this Agreement or any portions of it, all conditions and obligations contained in this Agreement apply both during my period of conditional access, which shall terminate at the conclusion of my work on     , and at all times thereafter.



10. 	Each provision of this Agreement is severable. If a court should find any provisions of this Agreement unenforceable, all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.



11. 	I understand that the United States Government may seek any remedy available to it to enforce this Agreement, including, but not limited to, application for a court order prohibiting disclosure of information in breach of this Agreement.



12. 	By granting me conditional access to information in this context, the United States Government does not waive any statutory or common law evidentiary privileges or protections that it may assert in any administrative or court proceeding to protect any sensitive but unclassified information to which I have been given conditional access under the terms of this Agreement.



13. 	These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights or liabilities created by Executive Order 12958, as amended; Section 7211 of Title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); Section 1034 of Title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); Section 2302(b)(8) of Title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act

(governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.)(governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents), and the statutes that protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including Sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of Title 128, United States Code, and Section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 USC Section 783 (b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling.



14. 	My execution of this Agreement shall not nullify or effect in any manner any other secrecy or nondisclosure Agreement which I have executed or may execute with the United States Government except within the Department of the Treasury as noted in item 8, above.



15. 	I make this Agreement in good faith, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion.





_______________________________ _______________________

Name and Date



_______________________________

Signature





This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the African Development Foundation as a prior condition on conditional access to sensitive but unclassified information. Further release to any other third party requires execution of a nondisclosure agreement.



When information is shared with the Office of Inspector General or the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, for official audit/investigative purposes, the following statement must be added below the signature line. “This Agreement was accepted by the undersigned on behalf of the African Development Foundation for conditional access to sensitive but unclassified information. Further release and dissemination of the African Development Foundation sensitive but unclassified information under this non-disclosure agreement must be in accordance with a written arrangement related to the official audit/investigative functions of the African Development Foundation. Further release to any other third party requires execution of a nondisclosure agreement.”



_______________________________ _______________________

African Development Foundation Official and Date

_______________________________ _______________________SECTION 508 COMPLIANCE



All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this solicitation must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. (36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.



In accordance with the above, in addition to the work requirements specified in the Statement of Work, contractors/vendors must ensure that all EIT that they provide either:  (1) meets the technical provisions of the Section 508 Access Board Standards applicable to a given procurement (see below); or (2) uses designs or technologies as alternatives to those prescribed in the specified technical provisions, provided they result in substantially equivalent or greater access to and use of a product for people with disabilities.



The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this delivery order:



x	1194.21 Software applications and operating systems.

x	1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.

	1194.23 Telecommunications products.

	1194.24 Video and multimedia products.

	1194.25 Self-contained, closed products.

	1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.	

	1194.31 Functional Performance Criteria

x	1194.41 Information, Documentation and Support



The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device, but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in the future.”



The Offeror shall submit a completed Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) for each EIT product and service listed in their proposal. By completing the VPAT the Offeror represents that the products and services offered in response to this solicitation comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless stated otherwise within the VPAT form.  The Offeror shall indicate, for each line item, whether each product or service is compliant or noncompliant with the accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.



BIO-BASED

Quotes shall indicate the bio-based content (if applicable) for each item being quoted in accordance with FAR 52.223-1.  Items must meet the minimum bio-based content requirements listed at 



RECOVERED MATERIALS

Quotes shall indicate the recovered materials content (if applicable) for each item being quoted in accordance with FAR 52.223-4.  Items must meet the minimum recovered material content requirements listed at





ENERGY STAR

Quotes shall indicate the Energy Star rating (if applicable) for each item being quoted in accordance with FAR 52.223-15.



EPEAT

Quotes shall indicate the applicable EPEAT rating (if applicable) for each item being quoted in accordance with FAR 52.223-16. The Government is requesting EPEAT Gold products, if available.



TAA COMPLIANCE

The Government is requesting TAA compliant products.  If the part number(s) listed is not TAA compliant, provide the part number(s) and product(s) that is TAA Compliant.  Place of manufacture shall also be provided for the product(s) being proposed.  







SOFTWARE FEDERAL DESKTOP CORE CONFIGURATION (FDCC)



All software which is designed to run on Windows Vista or XP desktops must function without modification to the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) security configurations developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).  Software and hardware products that are designed to operate in environments other than the FDCC desktop must have a standard configuration guide published on the NIST website, or the vendor must supply a recommended configuration guide for all configurable security settings.





52.212-4	CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013)



Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights— 

Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and 

Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item.

	(b) Assignment.  The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727).  However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.

	(c) Changes.  Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties.

	(d) Disputes.  This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601613).  Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.2331, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference.  The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.

	(e) Definitions.  The clause at FAR 52.2021, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.

	(f) Excusable delays.  The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.  The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence.

	(g) Invoice.  The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized,) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices.  An invoice must include

	(i) Name and address of the Contractor;

	(ii) Invoice date and number;

	(iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number;

	(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered;

	(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading;

	(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;

	(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;

	(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to be notified in event of defective invoice; and

	(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).  The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

	(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information only if required elsewhere in this contract.

	(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—System for Award Management, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds TransferOther than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures.

	(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement to pay by EFT.

	(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

	(h) Patent indemnity.  The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings.

	(i) Payment.   

	(1) Items accepted.  Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract.

	(2) Prompt payment.  The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt pay regulations at 5 CFR 1315.

	(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).  If the Government makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause.

	(4) Discount.  In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice.  For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made.

(5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall— 

(i) Remit the overpayment amount to the payment office cited in the contract along with a description of the overpayment including the— 

(A) Circumstances of the overpayment (e.g., duplicate payment, erroneous payment, liquidation errors, date(s) of overpayment); 

(B) Affected contract number and delivery order number, if applicable; 

(C) Affected contract line item or subline item, if applicable; and 

(D) Contractor point of contact. 

(ii) Provide a copy of the remittance and supporting documentation to the Contracting Officer. 

(6) Interest. 

(i) All amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 611 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in (i)(6)(v) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. 

(ii) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. 

(iii) Final decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by  if— 

(A) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor are unable to reach agreement on the existence or amount of a debt within 30 days; 

(B) The Contractor fails to liquidate a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer within the timeline specified in the demand for payment unless the amounts were not repaid because the Contractor has requested an installment payment agreement; or 

(C) The Contractor requests a deferment of collection on a debt previously demanded by the Contracting Officer (see ). 

(iv) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. 

(v) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: 

(A) The date fixed under this contract. 

(B) The date of the first written demand for payment, including any demand for payment resulting from a default termination. 

(vi) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on— 

(A) The date on which the designated office receives payment from the Contractor; 

(B) The date of issuance of a Government check to the Contractor from which an amount otherwise payable has been withheld as a credit against the contract debt; or 

(C) The date on which an amount withheld and applied to the contract debt would otherwise have become payable to the Contractor. 

(vii) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in  of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract. 

	(j) Risk of loss.  Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon:

	(1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or

	(2) Delivery of the supplies to the Government at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination.

	(k) Taxes.  The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties.

	(l) Termination for the Government's convenience.  The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience.  In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work.  Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination.  The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose.  This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor's records.  The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.

	(m) Termination for cause.  The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance.  In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law.  If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience.

	(n) Title.  Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.

	(o) Warranty.  The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.

	(p) Limitation of liability.  Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.

	(q) Other compliances.  The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract.

    (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with  relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts;  relating to officials not to benefit; , et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; , Anti-Kickback Act of 1986;  and  relating to whistleblower protections; , Fly American; and  relating to procurement integrity. 

        (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: 

(1) The schedule of supplies/services. 

(2) The Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts, and Unauthorized Obligations paragraphs of this clause; 

(3) The clause at 52.212-5. 

(4) Addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software. 

(5) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation. 

(6) Other paragraphs of this clause. 

(7) The Standard Form 1449. 

(8) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. 

(9) The specification. 

        (t) System for Award Management (SAM). 

(1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the SAM database, and for any liability resulting from the Government’s reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the SAM database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the SAM database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the SAM does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. 

(2)(i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, “doing business as” name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day’s written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the SAM database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. 

    (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the SAM information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of Payment” paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. 

(3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the SAM record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the SAM database. Information provided to the Contractor’s SAM record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the “Suspension of payment” paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract. 

(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via SAM accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov.	

        (u) Unauthorized Obligations 

(1) Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation

(31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: 

    (i) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government.

    (ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an “I agree” click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., “click-wrap” or “browse-wrap” agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause.

    (iii) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement.

(2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures.








ADDENDUM TO 52.212-4, CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013)



52.232-39	UNENFORCEABILITY OF UNAUTHORIZED OBLIGATIONS (JUN 2013)

(a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern:

(1) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government.

(2) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an “I agree” click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., “click-wrap” or “browse-wrap” agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause.

(3) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement.

(b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulation and procedures.





52.232-99 PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEVIATION)

	(AUG 2012) 



This clause implements the temporary policy provided by OMB Policy Memorandum M-12-16, 

Providing Prompt Payment to Small Business Subcontractors, dated July 11, 2012. 



(a) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the contractor is required to make accelerated payments to small business subcontractors to the maximum extent practicable after receipt of a proper invoice and all proper documentation from the small business subcontractor. 

(b) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts with small business concerns.

(c) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the 

Prompt Payment Act. 



DTAR 1052.232-7003 ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION OF PAYMENT REQUESTS (AUG 2012)



	(a)  Definitions.  As used in this clause—

(1) “Payment request” means a bill, voucher, invoice, or request for contract financing payment with associated supporting documentation.  The payment request must comply with the requirements identified in FAR 32.905(b), "Payment documentation and process" and the applicable Payment clause included in this contract.



	(b)  Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests electronically using the Invoice Processing Platform (IPP).  Information regarding IPP is available on the Internet at www.ipp.gov.  Assistance with enrollment can be obtained by contacting the IPP Production Helpdesk via email ippgroup@bos.frb.org or phone (866) 973-3131.



	(c)  The Contractor may submit payment requests using other than IPP only when the Contracting Officer authorizes alternate procedures in writing.  



	(d)  If alternate payment procedures are authorized, the Contractor shall include a copy of the Contracting Officer’s written authorization with each payment request.

PAYMENT AND INVOICE QUESTIONS



For payment and invoice questions, go to  or contact the Accounting Services Division at (304) 480-8000 option 7 or via email at AccountsPayable@bpd.treas.gov.





OVERPAYMENTS



In accordance with 52.212-4 section (i) 5 Overpayments:  Accounts Receivable Conversion of Check Payments to EFT:  If the Contractor sends the Government a check to remedy duplicate contract financing or an overpayment by the government, it will be converted into an electronic funds transfer (EFT). This means the Government will copy the check and use the account information on it to electronically debit the Contractor's account for the amount of the check. The debit from the Contractor's account will usually occur within 24 hours and will be shown on the regular account statement.



The Contractor will not receive the original check back.  The Government shall destroy the Contractor's original check, but will keep a copy of it.  If the EFT cannot be processed for technical reasons, the Contractor authorizes the Government to process the copy in place of the original check.



MARKING OF SHIPMENTS



The Contractor shall ensure the order number (Block 4) is clearly visible on all shipping/service documents, containers, and invoices.



52.204-9	PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011)



 (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. 

(b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government: 

(1) When no longer needed for contract performance. 

(2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee’s employment. 

(3) Upon contract completion or termination. 

(c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. 

(d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. 



1052.210-70 CONTRACTOR PUBLICITY (AUG 2011)


The Contractor, or any entity or representative acting on behalf of the Contractor, shall not refer to the equipment or services furnished pursuant to the provisions of this contract in any news release or commercial advertising, or in connection with any news release or commercial advertising, without first obtaining explicit written consent to do so 
from the Contracting Officer. Should any reference to such equipment or services appear in any news release or commercial advertising issued by or on behalf of the Contractor without the required consent, the Government shall consider institution of all remedies available under applicable law, including 31 U.S.C. 333, and this contract. Further, any violation of this provision may be considered during the evaluation of past performance in future competitively negotiated acquisitions.







1052.201-70 CONTRACTING OFFICER’S REPRESENTATIVE (COR) APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY (JUN 2012)

.

	(a) The COR will be named at the time of award.

	(b) Performance of work under this contract is subject to the technical direction of the COR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term “technical direction” includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, and/or fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily.

	(c) Technical direction must be within the scope of the contract specification(s)/work statement. The COR does not have authority to issue technical direction that:

	(1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the contract specification(s)/work statement;

	(2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled “Changes”;

	(3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance;

	(4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract;

	(5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or

	(6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the contractor's employees.

	(d) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COR must confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the Contracting Officer.

	(e) The Contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COR. If, in the opinion of the contractor, any direction of the COR or the designated representative falls within the limitations of (c) above, the contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day.

	(f) Failure of the Contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled “Disputes.”



52.217-8  OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICE  (NOV 1999) 



The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days before the contract expiration date. 



52.217-9  OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)



		(a)  The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within the final 30 days of each contract period; provided, that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

		(b)  If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

		(c)  The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 60 months.



CONTRACT TERM



The period of performance for this procurement is a Base Period of 12 months and 4, 12-month Option Periods.  








52.212-5	CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR 				EXECUTIVE ORDERS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 2013)



  	(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

(1) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

	__Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(2) , Protest After Award (Aug 1996) (). 

(3) , Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78) 

  	(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

	__ (1) , Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) ( and ). 

	__ (2) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 ()). 

	__ (3) , Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) 

	_x_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (FEB 2012) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).

	__ (5) , American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). 

	__ (6) , Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment. (Dec 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). 

	_x_ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (FEB 2012) (41 U.S.C. 2313).

__ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (MAY 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74, section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161).

	__ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a).

	__ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (). 

	__ (11) [Reserved] 

	__ (12)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644).

__ (ii) Alternate I (NOV 2011).

__ (iii) Alternate II (NOV 2011).	

	__ (13)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. 

	__ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) ( and (3)). 

	__ (15)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (). 

__ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. 

__ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. 

__ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. 

	__ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (NOV 2011)(15 U.S.C. 644(r)).

	__ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).

	__ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan (JAN 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).

	__ (19)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).

__ (ii) Alternate I (JUNE 2003) of 52.219-23.

	__ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting

(DEC 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

	__ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (OCT 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

	__ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657(f).

	_x_ (23) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (APR 2012) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).



__ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (APR 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)).

__ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (APR 2012) (15 U.S.C. 637(m)).

_x_ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (JUNE 2003) (E.O. 11755).

_x_ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (MAR 2012) (E.O. 13126).

_x_ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (FEB 1999).

_x_ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246).

_x_ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).

_x_ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

_x_ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

_x_ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O.

13496).

_x_ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)

__ (35)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items

(MAY 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf

items.)

      	      __ (ii) Alternate I (MAY 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

__ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).

__ (37)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products

(DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423).

      __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16.

__ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (AUG 2011) (E.O.

13513).

__ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).

__ (40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act (NOV 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43).

__ (ii) Alternate I (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3.

__ (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3.

__ (iv) Alternate III (NOV 2012) of 52.225-3.

__ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (NOV 2012) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).

__ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (JUNE 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).

__ (43) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (NOV 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

__ (44) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (NOV 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

__ (45) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (FEB 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f),

10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

__ (46) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (OCT 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

_x_ (47) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003)

(31 U.S.C. 3332).

__ (48) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than Central Contractor Registration

(MAY 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

__ (49) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (FEB 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

__ (50) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (AUG 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).

__ (51)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned

      __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. 



 	 (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: 

__ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

__ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 	 	     41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). 

	__ (3) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and 	     Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) ( and , et seq.). 

	__ (4) , Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) 	  	     ( and , et seq.). 

__ (5) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, 	     Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

__ (6) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—	     Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

	__ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O.13495).

	__ (8) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 

	__ (9) , Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (). 

   

(d)  Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records—Negotiation. 

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor’s directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. 

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. 

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. 

	(e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xi) of this paragraph in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—

((i) , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, 	Chapter 1 ()). 

(ii) , Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) ( and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include  in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. 

(iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in

accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause 52.222-17.  

(iv) , Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). 

(v) , Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (). 

(vi) , Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (). 

(vii) , Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause . 

(viii) , Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(ix) , Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (). 

	___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of  (). 

(x) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, 	Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (, et seq.). 

(xi) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-	Requirements (Feb 2009) (, et seq.). 

(xii) , Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). 

(xiii) , Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). 	Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause . 

(xiv) , Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. 	Appx. 1241(b) and ). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR 	clause . 



 (2)While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. 



52.252-2 	CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)



This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be

accessed electronically at this address:  https://www.acquisition.gov/far/




CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, AND ATTACHMENTS





Attachment A – Performance Work Statement (PWS)



Attachment B – Schedule of Deliverables and Performance Requirements Summary (PRS)

Attachment C – Non-Disclosure Agreement




52.212-1	INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)



(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— 

(1) The solicitation number; 

(2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; 

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; 

(4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; 

(5) Terms of any express warranty; 

(6) Price and any discount terms; 

(7) “Remit to” address, if different than mailing address; 

(8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); 

(9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; 

(10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and 

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. 

(c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. 

(d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. 

(e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. 

(f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. 

(1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. 

(2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and— 

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or 

(B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or 

(C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. 

(ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. 

(3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. 

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. 

(5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. 

(g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. 

(h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. 

(i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.  

(1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to— 



GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section
Suite 8100
470 East L’Enfant Plaza, SW
Washington, DC 20407 



Telephone (202) 619-8925
Facsimile (202) 619-8978



(ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. 

(2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: 

(i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). 

(ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). 

(iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). 

(3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by— 

(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); 

(ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or 

(iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. 

(4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. 

(j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation “DUNS” or “DUNS+4” followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror’s name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.

(k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror.  Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the CCR database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 

(1) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer. 

(2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. 

(3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. 

(4) A summary of the rationale for award; 

(5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. 

(6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency



ADDENDUM TO 52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)



1.0	NOTICE TO FIRMS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT



In accordance with FAR 9.405, offers are not solicited from firms debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment.  Ineligible firms shall consider this an informational copy only.



2.0	PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS





PROPOSAL SUBMISSION



Solicitation Questions



Questions regarding this solicitation shall be submitted to , attention Garen Davis and received no later than 2:00PM (ET), Wednesday, September 4, 2013.  Time constraints may preclude responding to questions submitted after the due date and time.



Proposal Deadline



Proposals shall be submitted to , attention Garen Davis and received no later than 2:00PM (ET), Thursday, September 12, 2013.  









The Offeror assumes the full-responsibility for ensuring that offers are received at the place, date and time as delineated herein.  All offers must be closed and sealed and must be fully identified on the sealed envelope if delivered via third party carrier or hand delivered.



In cases where the solicitation allows submission of electronic materials, the vendor assumes full-responsibility for ensuring such materials and attachments are formatted in accordance with BPD Security Requirements.  The following file extensions are not allowable and application materials/data submitted with these extensions cannot be considered:  



.bat, .cmd, .com, .exe, .pif, .rar., .scr, .vbs, .hta, .cpl, and .zip files.



Microsoft Office compatible documents are acceptable.  If the Offeror determines other formats are necessary, it is the Offeror’s responsibility to verify with BPD that formats are acceptable.  Proposal materials with unacceptable or unreadable formats may be found non responsive.



Proposal Package



Offerors shall submit the following in 3 separate volumes:  



VOLUME I - Technical Proposal 

 

VOLUME II - Past Performance 



VOLUME III – Price Proposal

	

2.1	VOLUME I - TECHNICAL PROPOSAL



The offeror shall provide the following information as part of their technical proposal:



a.	Go/No-Go

The offeror shall clearly demonstrate that the proposed GMS solution satisfies all requirements listed in Section 6 COTS PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS and Section 12.1.3 INSTALLATION of the PWS. These requirements will be collectively considered Go/No-Go criteria.  An offeror’s proposal that does not meet all the requirements in Section 6 will not be considered further.



b. Technical Capability

The offeror’s technical proposal shall include as much detail as necessary to fully explain the proposed technical approach and demonstrate the ability to perform all requirements of the PWS.  



The technical approach shall address all sections of the PWS with the exception of Section 7.1 QUALITY CONTROL.



In addition, the Contractor shall demonstrate financial responsibility and ability perform the requirements of the PWS by providing a current audited financial statement prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Un-audited or compilation financial statements will not be accepted. 

c. Key Personnel 

The offeror shall describe the qualifications of the proposed key personnel who will perform the work for accomplishing tasks and providing deliverables required by the PWS.  Key personnel are personnel such as partners, directors/managers, and senior/in-charge if they will be doing significant supervision of staff.  

The offeror shall describe the minimum qualifications required for all employees assigned to each labor category.  Resumes submitted for each key personnel will be acceptable. 

d. Management Capability 

The offeror shall provide a management plan to be used to satisfy the requirements as described in the PWS.  The management plan shall include:



The organizational structure for the project, including the names of personnel who will fill key positions in that structure.

Proposed lines of responsibility and authority.

Communication channels in place to coordinate and manage the project.  

Procedures for ensuring controls over quality, timeliness, and cost, including details of the control programs to be used to meet the requirements of this performance work statement.  

Description of capability to effectively manage the staffing resources to be used to meet the requirements of the PWS, including ability to be flexible in the timing of staff assignments for the work.

e.	Experience 



The Offeror shall provide details of at least three (3) previous or current contracts or orders completed within the last three (3) years of similar size and complexity providing a grant management solution.  



Details shall include the following:  



   1.  Task Order or contract title;

	2.  Task Order or contract number;

	3.  Name of Government or commercial contracting activity, address and telephone number;

	4.  Procuring Contracting Officer’s name and telephone number;

	5.  Procuring Project Officer’s name and telephone number;

	6.  Date of task order award and period of performance, including options;

	7.  Task Order type;

	8.  Task Order award amount;

	9.  Final, or projected final, contract price/cost;

   10.  Brief description of the requirement; AND

   11.  Description of task order performance to include a brief explanation of any problems or delays 

          encountered (including how many times the Offeror has not been able to provide the required 

           products/services and what methods or resources were put in place to meet the customers 

	       future needs) and any corrective actions taken in regards to either cost, schedule, or 

           performance.



f.	Quality Control 



The offeror shall provide a draft Quality Control Plan (QCP) that demonstrates compliance with and an understanding of the requirements as listed in Section 7.1 QUALITY CONTROL PLAN of the PWS.



g.	Information Security Requirements





The Contractor shall demonstrate the knowledge of and ability to comply with ADF’s unique information and records security requirements as described in the PWS.  The Contractor shall provide a draft security plan as described in Section 7.5 SECURITY PLAN. 



h. Completion of Treasury AB # 12-01, included herein.




2.2		VOLUME II – PAST PERFORMANCE



The Government will assess the Offeror’s past performance based on how well the Offeror performed on work of similar size, scope and complexity.  The Government may also evaluate information that is gathered independently of the Offeror’s submitted information to assess its past contract performance.  The absence of any past contract performance data will be neither favorable nor unfavorable.



The Offeror shall provide evidence of the Offeror’s performance in accomplishing the tasks and providing deliverables similar to those required by this PWS,  The Offeror shall provide the following information concerning representative examples of similar work that was performed during the past three (3) years:



The department or agency where the services were performed;

Brief description of the work performed (indicate if prime or sub-contractor);

Contracting Officer’s name, address, phone number, and email address;

Contract and, if applicable, task order number;

Current status, e.g., completed and/or if in progress, the start and estimated completion dates;

Number of hours proposed for the work, actual hours taken to complete the engagement, and reasons for any significant differences;

Copies of reports, if publicly available;

Contract type and dollar value; and 

A brief narrative of why you deem the reference to be relevant to this effort.



The government may also consider information obtained through other sources.  Past performance information will be used to determine the quality of the Offeror’s past performance as it relates to the probability of success of the required effort.



If the Offeror has no previous contract history, then the Offeror may submit any other information supporting the quality, timeliness, and customer satisfaction with its contract performance, including a list of its major professional accomplishments and awards, and client references.



2.3		VOLUME III – PRICE PROPOSAL



Offerors shall propose a firm-fixed price for the base period and 4 option periods.  The firm-fixed price for each period of performance shall show labor categories, estimated level of effort, hourly rate, price for hardware or software charges and ongoing maintenance and support.



52.212-2	EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)



	(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered.  The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers:



	Technical and past performance when combined will be equal to price.



	(b) Options.  The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement.  The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

	(c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.  Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.









ADDENDUM TO 52.212-2, EVALUATION -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JAN 1999)



EVALUATION CRITERIA AND BASIS FOR AWARD



Award will be made to the Offeror whose proposal conforms to the instructions included in this solicitation, is  determined to be technically acceptable, price is fair and reasonable and is overall in the best interest of the Government, all evaluative factors considered.  



Offerors’ proposals will be evaluated on the following areas:  



	1.  Technical; 

	2.  Past Performance; AND

	3.  Price.



The Government, using a best value analysis, will evaluate proposals considering both price and non-price factors.  Award will be made to the Contractor that provides the best value to the Government.  When combined, Technical and Past Performance will be equal to price.  As non-price scores become more even among competing proposals, price will carry greater weight in the best value analysis.



Technical Proposals will be evaluated to determine the Offeror’s ability to complete all technical requirements for performance.  A proposal that addresses only part of the technical requirements may not be considered fully responsive to the Government’s needs and may not be accepted.  Failure to furnish all and complete information requested may cause the offer to be considered non-responsive.



Treasury AB # 12-01	REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING AN UNPAID DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW (FEB 2012)



(1) The offeror does [   ] 	does not [   ] have any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.

(2) The offeror, its officers or agents acting on its behalf have [   ] 	have not [   ] been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months.





INVOICE PROCESSING PLATFORM (IPP) WAIVER



If unable to use IPP for submitting payment requests, Offerors are required to complete the attached waiver form (see IPP Waiver Attachment) and submit with proposal.  Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) and Microsoft Word are the only acceptable electronic invoicing formats.  Invoices must contain the information required in FAR 52.212-4(g).  



On the waiver form the Offeror shall indicate the reason(s) and the duration for which it is requesting the waiver.  If the Offeror’s current invoicing system is not compatible with IPP, the Offeror shall provide contact information for the person who can work with the IPP administrator to develop an interface. The waiver duration will be for no more than 6 months at which time the Contractor must be fully compliant with IPP requirements, or apply for a follow on waiver with the Contracting Officer. 



The Contracting Officer will review the waiver request and either approve or deny the request.  If approved, and the Offeror receives award, the Contractor shall submit a copy of the approved waiver along with each emailed invoice.  If a copy of the waiver is not attached, the invoice will be rejected.



52.212-3	 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS – COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2013))



An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via https://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. 

 (a) Definitions. As used in this provision—

     “Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.

“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service— 

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. 

“Inverted domestic corporation,” as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under , i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in , applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of . An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at  “Manufactured end product” means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except— 

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; 

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; 

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals; 

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; 

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; 

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; 

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; 

(8) FSC 9610, Ores; 

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and 

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. 

“Place of manufacture” means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture.

“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; 

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; 

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; 

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; 

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or 

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended. 

      “Sensitive technology”—

	(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically—

	(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or

	(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

	(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

     “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”— 

(1) Means a small business concern— 

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. 

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). 

“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates,that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. 

“Subsidiary” means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned— 

	(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or 

	(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. 

“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and 

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. 

“Women-owned business concern” means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern— 

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program” (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. 

   (b)(1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the SAM website. 

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through . After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR ), except for paragraphs ______________. 

Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. 

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. 

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 

	(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. 

	(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

     (i) It o is, o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

     (ii) It ❏ is, ❏ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.

	(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that— 

     (i) It ❏ is, ❏ is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and 

     (ii) It ❏ is, ❏ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.



Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. 

  (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it  is a women-owned business concern. 

  (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ 

         (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR , Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR , Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] 

(i) General. The offeror represents that either— 

(A) It ❏ is, ❏ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or 

(B) It ❏has, ❏ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. 

(ii) ❏ Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.] 

         (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that— 

(i) It ❏ is, ❏o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and 

(ii) It ❏ is, ❏ is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246— 

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It ❏ has, ❏ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 

(ii) It ❏ has, ❏ has not filed all required compliance reports. 

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that— 

(i) It ❏ has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 

(ii) It ❏ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 

	(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. 

 (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Supplies.”

(2) Foreign End Products:

[List as necessary]





(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(g)(1) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at

FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements–Israeli Trade Act.”

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary]



(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.” 

Other Foreign End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. 

(2) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian End Products:

[List as necessary]



(3) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”: 

Canadian or Israeli End Products:



[List as necessary]



(4) Buy American Act—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

[List as necessary]



(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. 

Other End Products:



[List as necessary]



(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals--

   (1) ❏ Are, ❏are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; 

   (2) ❏ Have, ❏ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; 

   (3) ❏ Are, ❏ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

   (4) ❏Have, ❏have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appear rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals Contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). 



(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] 

     (1) Listed end products.



(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 

❏ (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 

❏ (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.

(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly— 

(1) In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or 

(2)  Outside the United States. 

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] 

❏ (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR (c)(1). The offeror ❏ does ❏o does not certify that— 

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and 

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. 

❏ (2) Certain services as described in FAR (d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that— 

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; 

(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR (d)(2)(iii)); 

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and 

(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. 

(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies— 

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and 

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. 

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.) 

   (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

   (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. 

   (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 

❏  TIN: ________________________________. 

❏  TIN has been applied for. 

❏TIN is not required because: 

❏  Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 

❏  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 

❏  Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. 

   (4) Type of organization. 

❏  Sole proprietorship; 

❏  Partnership; 

❏ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 

❏  Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 

❏ Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 

❏  Foreign government; 

❏ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 

❏ Other ________________________________. 

   (5) Common parent. 

❏ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 

❏ Name and TIN of common parent: 

❏  Name ________________________________. 

❏ TIN _________________________________. 

	(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror 	does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. 

	(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. 

	(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code . 

	(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that— 

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and 

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. 



	(o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. 

(1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov.

(2) Representation and Certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror—

(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and

(iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds $3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf).

(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if—

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and 

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.









Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 



_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 

_______________________________________ 





Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 



Line Item No. 

Country of Origin 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 

______________ 

_________________ 







Listed End Product 

Listed Countries of Origin 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 

___________________ 



