Acquire Media YellowBrix Software Request for Quote

This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in Subpart 12.6, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; quotes are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. This is solicitation number NITYV5RV007 and is issued as a request for quotation (RFQ). This requirement is UNRESTRICTED with a primary NAICS CODE of 511210, size standard of $38.5 Million. THIS REQUEST FOR QUOTATION (RFQ) IS FOR A FIRM FIXED PRICE (FFP) AWARD. SPECIAL NOTE: THIS SOLICITATION IS SUBJECT TO FAR 52.232-18 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS (APR 1984). FUNDS ARE NOT PRESENTLY AVAILABLE FOR THIS CONTRACT. THE GOVERNMENT'S OBLIGATION UNDER THIS CONTRACT IS CONTINGENT UPON THE AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS FROM WHICH PAYMENT FOR CONTRACT PURPOSES CAN BE MADE. NO LEGAL LIABILITY ON THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR ANY PAYMENT MAY ARISE UNTIL FUNDS ARE MADE AVAILABLE TO THE CONTRACTING OFFICER FOR THIS CONTRACT AND UNTIL THE CONTRACTOR RECEIVES NOTICE OF SUCH AVAILABILITY, TO BE CONFIRMED IN WRITING BY THE CONTRACTING OFFICER. SOLICITATION CLOSING DATE: Please furnish quotes to the following POCs on or before the closing time listed in this RFQ. E-mail quotes are preferred and should be sent to jaclyn.hutchins@dfas.mil and eric.miller@dfas.mil listing the RFQ number. Quotes received after the closing time listed in this RFQ will not be considered. ISSUED BY: Point of Contact: Jaclyn Hutchins DFAS Contract Services Directorate 3990 E. Broad Street, Bldg. 21, Room 2B218 Columbus, OH 43213-1152 Phone Number: 614-701-2117 Fax Number: 614-701-2917 E-Mail address: jaclyn.hutchins@dfas.mil QUESTIONS: PLEASE EMAIL ANY QUESTION CONCERNING THIS SOLICITATION TO BOTH THE POC LISTED ABOVE AND TO THE CONTRACTING OFFICER LISTED BELOW:

1

CONTRACTING OFFICER: Eric Miller Phone Number: 614-701-2777 E-mail: eric.miller@dfas.mil REQUIREMENT DESCRIPTION: ACQUIRE MEDIA YELLOW BRIX SOFTWARE RENEWAL Bill of Materials: This requirement is BRAND NAME ONLY for Acquire Media YellowBrix. See chart below for details:
ACQUIRE MEDIA YELLOW BRIX MAINTENANCE RENEWAL IN SUPPORT OF EPORTAL DESCRIPTION

NO. 1 2 3 4 5 6

QTY

Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Categories; QTY 3 Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Weather; QTY 1 Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Market Indices; QTY 1 Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Stock Quotes w/Lookup; QTY 1 Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Control Panel; QTY 1 Acquire Media YellowBrix Maintenance for Annual Support Fee; QTY 1

1 1 1 1 1 1

Basis of Award: Lowest Responsive Quote Location of Work to be Performed: The delivery/service location of required software maintenance is: 8899 East 56th St. Indianapolis, IN 46249-2801 Attn: Frederic Lunas Anticipated Period of Performance or Delivery Schedule: Period of Performance: October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015. Section 508 Compliance: The following Section 508 accessibility standards are applicable: Software applications and operating systems (36 CFR 1194.21) PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES: The solicitation document and incorporate provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular FAC 2005-76, Effective 25 July 2014. The Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) assigned rating is DO-C9. The Government intends to include the following DFAS, FAR and DFARS clauses and provisions, either by reference or in full text in the resulting award and are not all inclusive. NOTE: The FAR and DFARS clauses may be accessed in full text at http://farsite.hill.af.mil/. DFAS Clauses are available by contacting the Point of Contact. CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
52.211-17 52.247-34 Delivery of Excess Quantities F.O.B. Destination SEP 1989 NOV 1991

2

52.204-10 52.209-6

52.209-10 52.212-4 52.222-3 52.222-19 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-36 52.222-50 52.223-18 52.225-13 52.232-33 52.233-3 252.203-7000 252.203-7002 252.204-7003 252.223-7008 252.225-7001 252.225-7002 252.232-7003 252.232-7010

Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment Prohibition on Contracting With Inverted Domestic Corporations Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items Convict Labor Child Labor -- Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action For Workers With Disabilities Combating Trafficking in Persons Encouraging Contractor Policies To Ban Text Messaging While Driving Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--System for Award Management Protest After Award Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights Control Of Government Personnel Work Product Prohibition of Hexavalent Chromium Buy American And Balance Of Payments Program Qualifying Country Sources As Subcontractors Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports Levies on Contract Payments

JUL 2013 AUG 2013

MAY 2012 MAY 2014 JUN 2003 JAN 2014 FEB 1999 MAR 2007 OCT 2010 FEB 2009 AUG 2011 JUN 2008 JUL 2013 AUG 1996 SEP 2011 SEP 2013 APR 1992 JUN 2013 DEC 2012 DEC 2012 JUN 2012 DEC 2006

CLAUSES / PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT:
252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (MAY 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization. Document type means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF). Local processing office (LPO) is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement system. (b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports. (c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall-(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the System for Award Management at https://www.acquisition.gov; and

3

(2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this Web site. (d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training Site before submitting payment requests through WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the "Web Based Training" link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/. (e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via Web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol. (f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF for this contract/order: (1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s). Combo or 2 in 1 (2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the contracting officer. HQ0243 (3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when creating payment requests and receiving reports in the system. Routing Data Table* -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Field Name in WAWF Data to be entered in WAWF -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Pay Official DoDAAC HQ0347 Issue By DoDAAC HQ0423 Admin DoDAAC HQ0423 Inspect By DoDAAC HQ0243 Ship To Code HQ0358 Ship From Code NA Mark For Code NA Service Approver (DoDAAC) NA Service Acceptor (DoDAAC) NA Accept at Other DoDAAC NA LPO DoDAAC NA DCAA Auditor DoDAAC NA Other DoDAAC(s) NA -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request. (5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the email address identified below in the "Send Additional Email Notifications" field of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system. Frederic.Lunas@dfas.mil

4

(g) WAWF point of contact. (1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's WAWF point of contact. James Phillis, James.Phillis@dfas.mil, 216-204-3194 (2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988. (End of clause) 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEVIATION 2013-O0019) (JUN 2014) (a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records -- Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (b) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clause in this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (b)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (Jan 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (1) of FAR clause 52.222-17. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

5

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965, (Nov 2007), (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

NA Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).
(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.) (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately-Owned U.S.- Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of Clause) 52.219-28 POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (JULY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Long-term contract means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options. However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority. Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (c) of this clause. Such a concern is ``not dominant in its field of operation'' when it does not exercise a controlling or major influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of employees, financial resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials, processes, patents, license agreements, facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity. (b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size status according to paragraph (e) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (g) of this clause, upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

6

(2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract. (3) For long-term contracts-(i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and (ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any option thereafter. (c) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards. (d) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees. (e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation required by paragraph (b) of this clause by validating or updating all its representations in the Representations and Certifications section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation or update. (f) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause. (g) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have a representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed: The Contractor represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern under NAICS Code 511210- assigned to contract number HQ0423-14-P-0047. (Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title). (End of clause) 52.223-11 OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (MAY 2001)

(a) Definition. Ozone-depleting substance, as used in this clause, means any substance the Environmental Protection Agency designates in 40 CFR part 82 as-(1) Class I, including, but not limited to, chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl chloroform; or (2) Class II, including, but not limited to, hydrochlorofluorocarbons. (b) The Contractor shall label products which contain or are manufactured with ozone-depleting substances in the manner and to the extent required by 42 U.S.C. 7671j (b), (c), and (d) and 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart E, as follows: "WARNING: Contains (or manufactured with, if applicable), a substance(s) which harm(s) public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere."----------------------------

7

The Contractor shall insert the name of the substance(s). (End of clause) 52.232-18 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS (APR 1984)

Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government's obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer. (End of clause) 52.232-39 UNENFORCEABILITY OF UNAUTHORIZED OBLIGATIONS (JUN 2013) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (1) Any such clause is unenforceable against the Government. (2) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. If the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement is invoked through an ``I agree'' click box or other comparable mechanism (e.g., ``click-wrap'' or ``browse-wrap'' agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause. (3) Any such clause is deemed to be stricken from the EULA, TOS, or similar legal instrument or agreement. (b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures. (End of clause) 52.233-4 APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)

United States law will apply to resolve any claim of breach of this contract. (End of clause) 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://www.acquisition.gov/far/ (End of clause) 52.252-6 AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

8

(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any DFARS (48 CFR Chapter 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (End of clause) 252.204-7004 ALTERNATE A, SYSTEM FOR AWARD MANAGEMENT (FEB 2014) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-``System for Award Management (SAM) database'' means the primary Government repository for contractor information required for the conduct of business with the Government. ``Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code'' means-- (1) A code assigned by the Defense Logistics Information Service (DLIS) to identify a commercial or Government entity; or (2) A code assigned by a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that DLIS records and maintains in the CAGE master file. This type of code is known as an ``NCAGE code.'' ``Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number'' means the 9-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet, Inc. (D&B) to identify unique business entities. ``Data Universal Numbering System +4 (DUNS+4) number'' means the DUNS number assigned by D&B plus a 4character suffix that may be assigned by a business concern. (D&B has no affiliation with this 4character suffix.) This 4-character suffix may be assigned at the discretion of the business concern to establish additional SAM records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR 32.11) for the same parent concern. ``Registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) database'' means that-- (1) The contractor has entered all mandatory information, including the DUNS number or the DUNS+4 number, and Contractor and Government Entity (CAGE) code into the SAM database; (2) The contractor has completed the Core Data, Assertions, Representations and Certifications, and Points of Contact sections of the registration in the SAM database; (3) The Government has validated all mandatory data fields, to include validation of the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Contractor will be required to provide consent for TIN validation to the Government as part of the SAM registration process; and (4) The Government has marked the record ``Active.'' (End of clause) 252.204-7006 BILLING INSTRUCTIONS (OCT 2005) When submitting a request for payment, the Contractor shall-(a) Identify the contract line item(s) on the payment request that reasonably reflect contract work performance; and (b) Separately identify a payment amount for each contract line item included in the payment request.

9

(End of clause) 252.204-7012 SAFEGUARDING OF UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED TECHNICAL INFORMATION (NOV 2013) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause-Adequate security means protective measures that are commensurate with the consequences and probability of loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to, or modification of information. Attribution information means information that identifies the Contractor, whether directly or indirectly, by the grouping of information that can be traced back to the Contractor (e.g., program description or facility locations). Compromise means disclosure of information to unauthorized persons, or a violation of the security policy of a system, in which unauthorized intentional or unintentional disclosure, modification, destruction, or loss of an object, or the copying of information to unauthorized media may have occurred. Contractor information system means an information system belonging to, or operated by or for, the Contractor. Controlled technical information means technical information with military or space application that is subject to controls on the access, use, reproduction, modification, performance, display, release, disclosure, or dissemination. Controlled technical information is to be marked with one of the distribution statements B-through-F, in accordance with DoD Instruction 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents. The term does not include information that is lawfully publicly available without restrictions. Cyber incident means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein. Exfiltration means any unauthorized release of data from within an information system. This includes copying the data through covert network channels or the copying of data to unauthorized media. Media means physical devices or writing surfaces including, but is not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration memory chips, and printouts onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system. Technical information means technical data or computer software, as those terms are defined in the clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data--Non Commercial Items, regardless of whether or not the clause is incorporated in this solicitation or contract. Examples of technical information include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, technical orders, catalog-item identifications, data sets, studies and analyses and related information, and computer software executable code and source code. (b) Safeguarding requirements and procedures for unclassified controlled technical information. The Contractor shall provide adequate security to safeguard unclassified controlled technical information from compromise. To provide adequate security, the Contractor shall-- (1) Implement information systems security in its project, enterprise, or company-wide unclassified information technology system(s) that may have unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through them. The information systems security program shall implement, at a minimum-- (i) The specified National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-53 security controls identified in the following table; or (ii) If a NIST control is not implemented, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a written explanation of how--

10

(A) The required security control identified in the following table is not applicable; or (B) An alternative control or protective measure is used to achieve equivalent protection. (2) Apply other information systems security requirements when the Contractor reasonably determines that information systems security measures, in addition to those identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, may be required to provide adequate security in a dynamic environment based on an assessed risk or vulnerability. Table 1--Minimum Security Controls for Safeguarding Minimum required security controls for unclassified controlled technical information requiring safeguarding in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (A description of the security controls is in the NIST SP 800-53, ``Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations'' (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html).) BILLING CODE 5001-06-P [GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR18NO13.031 BILLING CODE 5001-06-C Legend: AC: Access Control AT: Awareness and Training MP: AU: Auditing and Accountability CM: Configuration Management CP: Contingency Planning IA: Identification and Authentication IR: Incident Response MA: Maintenance MP: Media Protection PE: Physical & Environmental Protection PM: Program Management RA: Risk Assessment SC: System & Communications Protection SI: System & Information Integrity (c) Other requirements. This clause does not relieve the Contractor of the requirements specified by applicable statutes or other Federal and DoD safeguarding requirements for Controlled Unclassified Information as established by Executive Order 13556, as well as regulations and guidance established pursuant thereto. (d) Cyber incident and compromise reporting. (1) Reporting requirement. The Contractor shall report as much of the following information as can be obtained to the Department of Defense via (http://dibnet.dod.mil/) within 72 hours of discovery of any cyber incident, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this clause, that affects unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through the Contractor's unclassified information systems: (i) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS). (ii) Contract numbers affected unless all contracts by the company are affected. (iii) Facility CAGE code if the location of the event is different than the prime Contractor location.

11

(iv) Point of contact if different than the POC recorded in the System for Award Management (address, position, telephone, email). (v) Contracting Officer point of contact (address, position, telephone, email). (vi) Contract clearance level. (vii) Name of subcontractor and CAGE code if this was an incident on a subcontractor network. (viii) DoD programs, platforms or systems involved. (ix) Location(s) of compromise. (x) Date incident discovered. (xi) Type of compromise (e.g., unauthorized access, inadvertent release, other). (xii) Description of technical information compromised. (xiii) Any additional information relevant to the information compromise. (2) Reportable cyber incidents. Reportable cyber incidents include the following: (i) A cyber incident involving possible exfiltration, manipulation, or other loss or compromise of any unclassified controlled technical information resident on or transiting through Contractor's, or its subcontractors', unclassified information systems. (ii) Any other activities not included in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this clause that allow unauthorized access to the Contractor's unclassified information system on which unclassified controlled technical information is resident on or transiting. (3) Other reporting requirements. This reporting in no way abrogates the Contractor's responsibility for additional safeguarding and cyber incident reporting requirements pertaining to its unclassified information systems under other clauses that may apply to its contract, or as a result of other U.S. Government legislative and regulatory requirements that may apply (e.g., as cited in paragraph (c) of this clause). (4) Contractor actions to support DoD damage assessment. In response to the reported cyber incident, the Contractor shall-- (i) Conduct further review of its unclassified network for evidence of compromise resulting from a cyber incident to include, but is not limited to, identifying compromised computers, servers, specific data and users accounts. This includes analyzing information systems that were part of the compromise, as well as other information systems on the network that were accessed as a result of the compromise; (ii) Review the data accessed during the cyber incident to identify specific unclassified controlled technical information associated with DoD programs, systems or contracts, including military programs, systems and technology; and (iii) Preserve and protect images of known affected information systems and all relevant monitoring/packet capture data for at least 90 days from the cyber incident to allow DoD to request information or decline interest. (5) DoD damage assessment activities. If DoD elects to conduct a damage assessment, the Contracting Officer will request that the Contractor point of contact identified in the incident report at (d)(1) of this clause provide all of the damage assessment information gathered in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this clause. The Contractor shall comply with damage assessment information requests. The requirement to share files and images exists unless there

12

are legal restrictions that limit a company's ability to share digital media. The Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer of the source, nature, and prescription of such limitations and the authority responsible. (e) Protection of reported information. Except to the extent that such information is lawfully publicly available without restrictions, the Government will protect information reported or otherwise provided to DoD under this clause in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies. The Contractor shall identify and mark attribution information reported or otherwise provided to the DoD. The Government may use information, including attribution information and disclose it only to authorized persons for purposes and activities consistent with this clause. (f) Nothing in this clause limits the Government's ability to conduct law enforcement or counterintelligence activities, or other lawful activities in the interest of homeland security and national security. The results of the activities described in this clause may be used to support an investigation and prosecution of any person or entity, including those attempting to infiltrate or compromise information on a contractor information system in violation of any statute. (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (g), in all subcontracts, including subcontracts for commercial items. (End of clause) 252.225-7048 EXPORT-CONTROLLED ITEMS (JUNE 2013) (a) Definition. ``Export-controlled items,'' as used in this clause, means items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR Parts 730-774) or the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR Parts 120-130). The term includes-(1) ``Defense items,'' defined in the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2778(j)(4)(A), as defense articles, defense services, and related technical data, and further defined in the ITAR, 22 CFR Part 120; and (2) ``Items,'' defined in the EAR as ``commodities'', ``software'', and ``technology,'' terms that are also defined in the EAR, 15 CFR 772.1. (b) The Contractor shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding export-controlled items, including, but not limited to, the requirement for contractors to register with the Department of State in accordance with the ITAR. The Contractor shall consult with the Department of State regarding any questions relating to compliance with the ITAR and shall consult with the Department of Commerce regarding any questions relating to compliance with the EAR. (c) The Contractor's responsibility to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding export-controlled items exists independent of, and is not established or limited by, the information provided by this clause. (d) Nothing in the terms of this contract adds, changes, supersedes, or waives any of the requirements of applicable Federal laws, Executive orders, and regulations, including but not limited to-- (1) The Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401, et seq.); (2) The Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751, et seq.); (3) The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701, et seq.); (4) The Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR Parts 730-774); (5) The International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR Parts 120-130); and (6) Executive Order 13222, as extended.

13

(e) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts. (End of clause)

14

Section H - Special Contract Requirements CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT DFAS 52.223-9000, "ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE PRODUCTS" (July 2013) The Environmentally Preferable Products clause is included in this contract to articulate the Government's policies on Green Contracting. FAR 23.403 sets forth the Federal Government's policy to acquire items composed of the highest percentage of recycled-content practical, in a cost effective manner while still obtaining other contracting goals. Recycled-content products are identified in the Environmental Protection Agency's Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPGs). The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) will be producing a similar list which designates Bio-based products. EPA guideline items (and USDA designated bio-based products, when designated) are seen as the minimum that should be considered when evaluating environmentally preferable materials. Other environmentally preferable materials and products not listed, but commonly used in industry outside of the Government, should also be considered. Executive Order 13423 (January 24, 2007) required federal agencies to use sustainable environmental practices, including acquisition of bio-based, environmentally preferable, energy-efficient, water-efficient, and recycledcontent products. Moreover, it required that paper of at least 30 percent post-consumer fiber content must be acquired or used in Agency acquisitions of goods and services. Executive Order 13514 (October 5, 2009), required federal agencies to analyze internal processes and revise reporting requirements in order to achieve such results as improvement of water use and efficiency, promoting pollution prevention and elimination of waste. But more particularly as related to procurement, an emphasis was placed on efforts to advance sustainable acquisitions to ensure that 95 percent of new contract actions including task and delivery orders, for products and services with the exception of acquisition of weapon systems, are energyefficient (Energy Star or Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) designated ­ FAR 52.223-15, and -16 when specific to computer products), water-efficient (Goals within Executive Order 13514), bio-based (FAR 52.223-1 & -2), environmentally preferable (FAR 52.223-10) and/or Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT ­ FAR 52.223-16) certified, non-ozone depleting (FAR 52.223-11), contain recycled content, or are non-toxic or less-toxic alternatives (FAR 52.223-3 & DFARS 252.223-7006), where such products and services meet agency performance requirements.

§ 1.

Mandatory Use of Paper and Other Products with Recycled Content. (a) All paper utilized in the performance of this contract must be of at least 30 percent post-consumer fiber

content. (b) The contractor affirmatively acknowledges that it will, to the maximum extent practicable, use sustainable environmental practices including acquisition of bio-based, environmentally preferable, energy-efficient, water-efficient, and recycled-content products in the performance of this contract that meet the recycled-content recommendations for EPA designated items, which are found at http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/nonhw/procure/products.htm. In addition, by responding to this solicitation the contractor is certifying the deliverables required under this contract shall meet the recycled-content recommendations for EPA designated items (FAR 52.223-17). §2 Notice of Green Alternatives in Offerors' Product/Service.

(a) When offering a product or service that contains "Green" components as that term is defined at http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm, the contractor shall make the Contracting Officer aware of such facts in the submission of their quote or proposal. (b) The contractor, when appropriate, shall comply with FAR Clause 52.223-9 Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA Designated Products, and provide the certification required by FAR 52.223-4, when required.

15

§3

Affirmative Duty of Contractors to Adhere to Green Contracting Policy.

(a) Whenever practicable, the Contractor has an affirmative duty to examine its packaging to eliminate or reduce waste by volume, toxicity and/or weight and to utilize or substitute recyclable material for non-recyclable material in packaging. (b) Whenever practicable, the Contractor has an affirmative duty to find other materials utilized in the delivery of services under this contract and examine whether it can reduce waste by volume, toxicity and/or weight and to utilize or substitute recyclable materials for non-recyclable materials of items consumed in the furnishing of their services. (End of clause) DFAS 52.204-9000 "REPLACEMENT OF PAPER DOCUMENT DISTRIBUTION WITH ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT ACCESS (EDA)" (June 2012) Copies of DFAS contracts and modifications are available on the Electronic Document Access (EDA) website at http://eda.ogden.disa.mil. The website provides access information as well as EDA Help Desk Support.

(END OF CLAUSE)

16

