<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSolicitation%28DI%29.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FSolicitation%28DI%29.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>COMBINED SYNOPSIS/SOLICITATION i. This is a combined synopsis/solicitation for commercial items prepared in accordance with the format in FAR Part 15 with FAR Part 12.6 Streamlined, as supplemented with additional information included in this notice. This announcement constitutes the only solicitation; proposals are being requested and a written solicitation will not be issued. The solicitation number is HE125420120060046 and issued as a request for proposal (RFP). A statement that the solicitation document and incorporated provisions and clauses are those in effect through Federal Acquisition Circular 2005-55, 2 February 2012. This requirement is being conducted using full and open competition; there is no set-aside. The associated NAICS code is 611430 and small business size standard is $10M. See Attachment 1 for an example of how to structure contract line item numbers (CLINs), item descriptions, quantities and units of measure. A description of the requirement is provided in the Statement of Work (SOW) at Attachment 2.

ii.

iii.

iv.

v.

vi.

vii. The dates of delivery and acceptance will be provided on individual delivery orders, see the SOW at Attachment 2 for general delivery requirements. viii. The provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial, applies to this acquisition. An addendum to this provision is provided at Attachment 3. ix. The provision at 52.212-2, Evaluation -- Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition. The specific evaluation criteria to be included in paragraph (a) of this provision is provided at Attachment 5. Offerors shall include a completed copy of the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications -- Commercial Items, with its offer; however, if the offeror has provided the required information electronically as part of its annual representations and certifications to the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA), then the Offeror shall instead include a statement in its offer that the provisions at FAR 52.212-3 and DFARS 252.212-7000 for the firm are available online at https://orca.bpn.gov. The clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition. An addendum to this clause is provided at Attachment 6.

x.

xi.

xii. The clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes Or Executive Orders -- Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition. The following additional FAR clauses cited in clause 52.212-5 are provided at Attachment 6. xiii. The clause at 252.212-7001 Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes Or Executive Orders ­Applicable to Defense Acquisitions of Commercial Items, applies to this acquisition. The additional DFARS clauses cited in clause 25.212-7001 are provided in Attachment 6. xiv. See Attachment 6 for a list of clauses and additional contract terms and conditions that been determined by the contracting officer to be necessary for this acquisition and consistent with customary commercial practices. xv. Proposals are due at 2:00 PM EST on 7 May 2012, deliverable to : DoDEA Procurement Division 4040 North Fairfax Drive, 4th Floor ATTN: Summerlin Walker (HE125420120060046) Arlington, VA 22203-1613 See Attachment 3 for details. xvi. Request for Proposals (RFP) information and amendments will be posted to the Federal
Business Opportunities website at www.fbo.gov. Offerors may email written questions requesting clarification of the RFP to the Contract Specialist, Summerlin Walker, at: Summerlin.Walker@hq.dodea.edu. No information concerning this solicitation or requests for clarification will be provided in response to telephone calls. Questions will be received up to 2:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST) on April 19, 2012. Questions received after this time and date may not be answered.

Attachment 1 : CLIN Structure Example Online Courses on Differentiated Instruction Description of Requirement: The Contractor shall provide both products and services in accordance with the Statement of Work (SOW) See Attachment 2. Vendors must prepare an Excel spreadsheet or Microsoft Word document which identifies items and prices being proposed. All items must have a price or be marked "NSP" for "Not Separately Priced." Each item will state the item description, estimated quantity, unit, unit price and estimated amount. A separate line item must be prepared for the base and two option years. A subtotal for each year and a final total for the Base and all Option Years are required in the Excel Spreadsheet. In addition, a copy of the Excel spreadsheet must be submitted on CD. Please see Instructions to Offerors and below for a sample of Contract Line Item Numbers CLINs. CLIN ITEM DESCRIPTION BASE YEAR June 2012 - May 2013 The Contractor shall provide four (4) online courses on Differentiated Instruction to include ongoing technical support, registration and usage/completion reports in accordance with the attached Statement of Work (Attachment 2) ESTIMATED QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE ESTIMATED TOTAL PRICE

0001

1,440

Each

CLIN

ITEM DESCRIPTION OPTION YEAR 1 June 2013 - May 2014 The Contractor shall provide four (4) online courses on Differentiated Instruction to include ongoing technical support, registration and usage/completion reports in accordance with the attached Statement of Work (Attachment 2)

ESTIMATED QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

ESTIMATED TOTAL PRICE

1001

1,690

Each

CLIN

ITEM DESCRIPTION OPTION YEAR 2 June 2014 - May 2015 The Contractor shall provide four (4) online courses on Differentiated Instruction to include ongoing technical support, registration and usage/completion reports in accordance with the attached Statement of Work (Attachment 2)

ESTIMATED QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

ESTIMATED TOTAL PRICE

2001

1,990

Each

Attachment 2

STATEMENT OF WORK

ONLINE COURSES On Differentiated Instruction
1 1.1 INTRODUCTION The Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) serves the educational needs of the dependents of military and civilian employees by providing PK-12 instruction to approximately 87,000 students in seven states, twelve foreign countries, Guam, and Puerto Rico. The number of students varies based on the deployment of military troops worldwide. DoDEA's curriculum, resources, and student achievement scores on standardized assessments compare favorably to high-performing US public schools. 1.2 DoDEA is divided into three administrative areas. DDESS (Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools) covers the schools in seven states and Puerto Rico, and for administrative purposes, Cuba. DoDDS (Department of Defense Dependent Schools) is divided into DoDDSEurope and DoDDS-Pacific. The former administers the schools in England, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, and Bahrain. The latter covers the schools in Korea, Japan, and for administrative purposes, Guam. DoDEA also operates a fully accredited Virtual High School with its main office in Virginia and teaching hubs in Germany and Korea. 2 2.1 BACKGROUND DoDEA provides sustained professional development to all of its educators. It is often focused on specific curricular areas and aimed at particular groups of educators. 2.2 DoDEA is in the process of planning comprehensive professional development on differentiating instruction for students that will be presented to all DoDEA teachers and administrators. 2.3 The DoDEA Differentiated Instruction conceptual framework provides the 5 key tenets of differentiation as follows: invigorating learning environments; on-going assessment and data; respectful, challenging learning tasks; high quality curriculum; and flexible grouping. Following these tenets, teachers determine the content, process, and product through planned instruction and assessment. Through intentional planning, teachers determine the strategies that support students' readiness, interest, and learning style in order to maximize their growth. Differentiated Instruction provides all educators with a process for reflecting on their beliefs about teaching and learning in order to respond to the diverse needs of all learners. This approach asks teachers to:  be clear about what is important to know and do with the subject matter

    

understand, appreciate, and build upon student differences understand that assessment and instruction are inseparable adjust instruction in response to student readiness, interests, and learning style embrace flexibility as the hallmark of a differentiated classroom reach the goal of a differentiated classroom - obtaining maximum student growth and individual success (Tomlinson, 2002, Differentiating Instruction for Academic Diversity)

2.4 

The Differentiated Instruction Tenets are as follows: Invigorating Learning Environments Maximize Each Student's Growth and Individual Success. Learning environments ignite the interests and passion of students to learn and are communities where individual differences are honored and fundamental to the teaching and learning experience. Invigorating learning environments are student-centered and characterized by individual and collaborative learning, active student participation in learning, and a focus on student interests and needs. They encourage positive social interaction and self-motivation. They differentiate instruction ­all of the time.



On-going Assessment and Data Are Essential Instructional Tools. Student performance data and ongoing assessments are used to plan, direct and differentiate instruction. Continuous assessment, both formative and summative, engages learners in their own growth; provides students with specific information about their performance in a way that helps them improve; monitors learners' progress; and guides teacher and learner decision making.



Learning Tasks Are Respectful, Challenging, Inviting, and Thought-Provoking for All Students. Students exposed to engaging work develop and deepen their understanding of content, build their critical and creative thinking competencies, and experience more meaningful learning experiences. In differentiated classrooms, instruction is designed to provide all students stimulating and challenging tasks and abundant opportunities to demonstrate their learning in different ways. Students in these classrooms become active and responsive explorers. Student learning experiences meeting the yardstick of this tenet allow all students the opportunity to flourish and succeed.



Access to High Quality Curriculum Deepens Learning. Curriculum, instructional materials, differentiated instruction, and teacher and student behaviors all combine to make content accessible for all students. This tenet relies upon disciplined and deliberate articulation of what we want students to know and be able to do, how we know when they have learned, what we will do when they have not learned, and what we will do when they have exceeded the learning

expectations. There is an obvious line-of-sight from the student tasks and objectives to the content standards and learning goals. There are explicit goals in lesson designs that apply content knowledge to real-world problems, connect concepts, use differing perspectives, and encourage critical and creative thinking and collaborative problem-solving. Students are challenged -- all of the time.  Flexible Grouping is Consistently Used to Drive and Deepen Student Growth and Achievement. Learners are expected to interact and work together as they develop knowledge of new content. As one of the tenets of differentiated instruction, flexible grouping which is intentional grouping and regrouping must be a dynamic process, changing the content, project and on-going assessments to meet the diverse student needs. Groups of students are not fixed. Teachers may conduct whole-class discussions of the content's big ideas followed by small group or paired work. Student groups are coached from within the group or by the teacher to complete assignments. Appropriate instructional strategies and resources are used to flex instruction to the needs of individual and groups of learners. 3 3.1 SCOPE For professional development purposes, DoDEA requires a contractor to provide a minimum of four existing differentiated instruction online courses for teachers and administrators. 4 REQUIREMENTS:

The Contractor shall: 4.1 Provide DoDEA access to a series a minimum of four vendor-hosted, research-based interactive self-paced online courses on differentiated instruction (DI). DoDEA's DI requirement includes the teacher's ability to respond to students' diverse learning needs in order to maximize student growth. Teachers may differentiate content, process and product to meet students' readiness, interests and learning styles. 4.2 Provide online courses that are broad and universal (across the PK-12 grade and content levels). Course examples are listed below:     Overview of DI's Five Tenets In Depth Study of the DI Process Embedding DI into curriculum planning, instruction, and assessment DI for school-level and above school-level administrators

4.3

Provide each DoDEA educator access to taking one DI online course of the educator's choice as part of his/her professional learning.  To accommodate the different school year calendars of DoDEA's US and overseas schools, courses shall be available for the life of the contract.  Course access will be based on delivery orders.

4.4

Provide online courses that are at least 16-20 hours in length to support educator annual recertification needs.  Participants will be able to see a summary of each course so that they can determine which course best meets their needs.  Participants will be able to take a pretest to guide them to the course(s) that they should take.

4.5

Ensure that the online courses may be saved and returned to as participants work through the course to completion.

4.6

Ensure that course requirements are consistent with courses goals, representative of the scope of the course and clearly stated.

4.7

Ensure that course requirements contain sufficient rigor, depth and breadth to address DoDEA teachers' needs to practice DI in their classroom.

4.8

Provide a pre-assessment and post-assessment for each online course along with a participant certificate upon completion of each course.

4.9

Provide participants, upon request, with a course outline and any other additional information required for them to receive course credit from a university.

4.10

All software--network or web-based--shall be Section 508 compliant (www.Section508.gov).

4.11

Reflect a multicultural approach that is free of racial, color, national origin, age, disabling conditions, sexual, religious, and ethnic bias and presents a balanced coverage of a variety of cultures accurately and authentically, avoiding stereotypes.

5

Registration--The Contractor shall: 5.1 Provide online registration for and access to DoDEA educators. The demographics requested below will be available within 30 calendar days of the contract award. Users

may begin using the system before the demographics data is available and upon availability will be re-directed to enter their demographic data. The following information needs to be captured:  Teachers: name, email, grade level(s) and content area(s) taught, years of teaching experience, school, district, and area.   Administrators: name, email, position title, school, district, and area District Instructional Specialists and HQ Curriculum Coordinators: name, email, position title, district or area or HQ.  Name and email address are part of the base system, additional demographics will be added within 30 days of contract award. DoDEA will provide a list of acceptable values for these fields so that data can be verified or presented in a dropdown. 5.1.1 5.1.2 Provide open registration 24 hours after receipt of a Delivery Order. Provide registration and access to DoDEA educators based on a written delivery order. Once the maximum number of applicants has been reached, respond to DoDEA educators with an email message agreed-upon by the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) and that is copied to the COR. 5.2 Registration Reports--The Contractor shall: 5.2.1 Enrollment Reports: Provide a weekly enrollment report from the beginning to end of each Delivery Order issued. A final report will be required at the completion of each Delivery Order and shall contain the following information:
System System teacher enrollment by:  Content Area(s)*  Grade Level(s)*  Teacher Assignment*  Teaching Experience* Area Area teacher enrollment by:  Content Area(s)  Grade Level(s)  Teacher Assignment  Teaching Experience District District teacher enrollment by:  Content Area(s)  Grade Level(s)  Teacher Assignment  Teaching Experience School School teacher enrollment by:  Content Area(s)  Grade Level(s)  Teacher Assignment  Teaching Experience  Participant Identifier School administrator

System administrator

Area

District

enrollment by:  Administrator Assignment*

Administrator Assignment  Participant Identifier * There will be 14 grade level breakdowns, one for each grade PK-12. The other area breakdowns will be finalized after award.

administrator enrollment by:  Administrator Assignment

administrator enrollment by:  Administrator Assignment

enrollment by: 

5.2.2

Usage/Completion Reports: Each month for the life of the contract, a usage/completion report will be submitted to the COR. A final report will be submitted at the completion of each Delivery Order. The usage report will be aligned to the registration report and will show participation time and completion.

5.3

Access for DoDEA Planning: The Contractor will provide up to five DoDEA staff with access to the courses for two weeks beginning the date of contract Award.

5.4

Technical Support: Provide technical support via phone and email necessary for participants to complete the courses. Email responses must be received in one to two business days.

6 6.1

TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS All online resources and instructional software shall meet Department of Defense (DoD) and DoD Education Activity (DoDEA) Information Assurance (Cybersecurity) requirements as defined below. All hardware and software shall undergo preliminary testing to ensure that they pose no security risk to the DoDEA infrastructure. All websites shall be evaluated to ensure that they pose no security risk to the DoDEA infrastructure. If any IT component of the Contractor's proposal fails to meet DoDEA's Information Assurance / IT requirements, such component shall be excluded from further evaluation.

6.2

All hardware, software and websites shall conform/adhere to the following requirements: 6.2.1 DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP), 28 November 2007, which may be found at the following URL: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/851001p.pdf].

6.2.2

Security Technical Information Guidance (STIG), which may be found at the following URL: http://iase.disa.mil/stigs/index.html

6.3

The Contractor shall provide security patches and upgrades, to include third-party applications, in response to publicly released vulnerabilities associated with their software solution. Any deviations from this requirement shall be formally approved in writing by the DoDEA CIO/Designated Approving Authority (DAA).

6.4

Contractor software solutions shall not interfere with other installed software and shall not modify DoDEA's underlying system security configuration. The Contractor shall develop and provide software upgrades within 30 days of notification should any of the software/plug-ins be found vulnerable and non-compliant with Department of Defense, Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) or United States Cyber Command (US CYBERCOM) standards. Software upgrades and patches shall be included in the licensing cost and performed at the least disruptive times. Any additional software requirements may be subject to the DIACAP process prior to contract award.

6.5

In accordance with its testing criteria, DoDEA requires the use of software which may be installed and/or accessed in a stand-alone environment, a network environment or webbased environment that is compatible with standards cited herein. All software shall be completely functional on a standard DoDEA desktop without the need for Administrative-level user rights or a requirement to insert media (CD/DVD) to execute the software. Software shall not require modifications to folder permissions while executing. Additionally, all software shall be compatible with both Windows XP and Windows 7 system requirements. These specifications can be found at: http://support.microsoft.com/kb/314865 http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows7/products/system-requirements

6.6

All windows, fly-out menus, etc. shall work from within an environment that blocks popup windows. Additionally, any web based software that requires the use of streaming videos or downloads, such as Java Applets, shall be explicitly identified prior to Information Assurance and IT testing.

6.7

All software packages shall support unattended installation methods used by enterprise software packaging and deployment systems, i.e., Microsoft Systems Management Server, Computer Associates Unicenter software delivery, and Symantec Altiris deployment solution. Older 16-bit software will be disapproved during Information Assurance testing.

6.8

The Contractor's solution shall be robust enough to serve the needs of a large community of learners dispersed across the world using a variety of bandwidth sizes. The Contractor's solution shall be scalable and able to expand to meet future growth, both in terms of the volume of instruction and the size of the student body.

6.9

Any portion of the Contractor's solution that collects student personally identifiable information (PII) shall be compliant with the Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) found at http://www.fcc.gov/guides/childrens-internet-protection-act and the Privacy Act, which is found at http://www.archives.gov/about/laws/privacy-act-1974.html.

6.9.1

Any opportunity for data integration of student or teacher accounts shall adhere to the DoD guidance for security of personally identifiable information (appended). All Contractor staff that has access to DoDEA student and/or teacher personally identifiable information shall take the DoD Privacy Act/Personally Identifiable Information (PA and PPI/PII) training before gaining access to the data and yearly thereafter. DoDEA contractors who have a DoDEA username and password may access the training on DoDEA's intranet. All other any contractors shall access the PA and PPI/PII slides, a link to which is found on DoDEA's homepage (www.dodea.edu). Contractors shall send written confirmation to the Contracting Officer's Representative listing the staff members that have taken the mandatory PA and PPI/PII training.

6.10

Hardware and software maintenance and phone/e-mail technology support shall be available for the duration of the contract. Any upgrades to online digital materials shall include compatibility with DoDEA school-level technology and DoD's information technology requirements. The Contractor shall not contact schools directly, but shall

coordinate the dissemination of upgrades or revisions through the COR and shall provide electronic access of the update and/or revision to the COR for testing. 6.11 The Contractor may be required to sign Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDA), which prohibits the disclosure, publishing, divulgence, or release of any information obtained during the performance of the contract. 7 7.1 DELIVERABLES-- The Contractor will: Participate in a post-award teleconference or videoconference within three business days after contract award. 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8 Provide access to the course for planning purposes. Provide registration and access to courses based on written delivery orders. Provide Registration reports. Provide Usage/Completion reports. Provide Technical Support, per 5.4 PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE The Contractor will furnish all services to be performed and all items to be delivered in accordance with the following delivery schedule: For Base Year and Option Years 1-2 Item Post-award teleconference or videoconference Access to the online courses for DoDEA staff planning Access to online courses Registration Reports Ref 7.1 5.3 5.1.1 5.2.1 Timeline Three days after award Date of Contract Award Dates per Delivery Order Initial report will be available 30 days after contract award and will then be provided weekly during the performance period Monthly during the performance period of each Delivery Order with a final report due at the end of each Delivery Order Ongoing

Usage/Completion Report Technical Support

5.2.2 5.4

Attachment 3 52.212-1 ADDENDUM ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - - COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMMERCIAL ITEMS Communication: Solicitation information and amendments will be posted to the Federal Business Opportunities website at www.fbo.gov. Offerors may email written questions requesting clarification of the Request for Quote (RFQ) to the Contract Specialist, Summerlin Walker, at: Summerlin.Walker@hq.dodea.edu. No information concerning this solicitation or requests for clarification will be provided in response to telephone calls. Questions will be received up to 2:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST) on April 19, 2012. Questions received after this time and date may not be answered. Offeror Submission Instructions Sample Online Courses are due and shall be received at the address below by April 23, 2012 No later than 2:00 P.M. EST via U.S. Postal, UPS, FEDEX or hand delivered. Quotes are due and shall be received at the address below by May 7, 2012 No later than 2:00 P.M. EST via U.S. Postal, UPS, FEDEX or hand delivered to the following address. DoDEA will ensure personnel are present at the agency to accept quotes. No electronic or fax copies of any quote will be accepted. No exceptions. DoDEA Procurement Division 4040 N. Fairfax Drive, 4th Floor ATTN: Summerlin Walker (HE125420120060046) Arlington, VA 22203-1613 Proposal Format - All vendors must submit written proposal materials as described below and in the quantities of each volume as stated. In addition, the vendor shall also provide an electronic version of its proposal on Microsoft Windows-compatible CD-Rom (CD-R) or DVD in Microsoft Windows (latest version) and Excel Format (latest version). Any pricing information will be on separate disk(s) from the technical information. In the case of a conflict between the electronic and the hard copy, the hard copy will be considered the correct version. Volume I ­ Technical Capability (Submit 1 with original documents, and 5 copies) ­The vendor shall provide access to courses, a Technical Capability Statement, and a course list for review. These items will be evaluated against the criteria listed under Evaluation Factors in the addendum to FAR 52.212-2, Evaluation, Commercial Items. The vendor shall provide: a. Technical Capability Statement: A written description which includes a technical description in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirement in the solicitation. This may include product literature or other documents if necessary. At a minimum, the following criteria shall be addressed:  Provide a comprehensive listing of available courses, their objectives and course length.  Sample Online Courses: The vendor shall provide DoDEA information technology personnel and up to five evaluators with access (ex. logins and passwords) to four of the Offeror's proposed Differentiated Instruction courses.

Volume II ­ Past Performance Information (Submit 1 with original documents, and 1 copy) - The vendor shall submit Past Performance documentation in accordance with instructions provided below: a. Vendors shall provide information concerning performance in providing supplies and services relevant to those required in the SOW, for the last three contracts similar in nature to this requirement, either completed or currently being performed during the last three years. Vendors shall describe the relevance of each listed contract to the current RFQ's requirements. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of state and local governments and commercial customers. b. Attachment 4 Past Performance Information (Part I), shall be completed and submitted by all vendors. c. Attachment 4, The Respondent Information (Part II) shall be completed and submitted directly by vendor's references to the DoDEA Procurement Division by email with the subject line "HE125420120060046 Reference" to Summerlin Walker at Summerlin.Walker@hq.dodea.edu before or by the closing date and time of this solicitation. d. The Government may also consider past performance information obtained through other sources. e. Should the offeror possess no relevant past performance, a written statement shall be provided by the offeror so indicating. In the case of an offeror without a relevant past performance or for whom information is not available, the offeror will not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance and will be assigned a neutral rating. Volume III ­Pricing- (Submit 1 with original document, and 1 copy): Contracting/Pricing Volume will be submitted separately with all executed RFP Documents. Prices will be evaluated for reasonableness. This volume consists of: a. An Administrative Cover Letter that includes the following information: Tax identification number (TIN), Dun & Bradstreet Number (DUNS), Complete Business Mailing Address, Cage Code, Contact Name, Contact Phone Number, Contact Fax Number, Contact Email Address. Include a signatory line and signature along with the person's name, title and date signed. b. All issued amendments to the solicitation shall be included. c. Complete offer schedule with unit price and total amount for each Contract Line Items. d. The vendors are cautioned that no reference to proposed price(s) shall be made in any other volumes but volume III. e. Vendors shall comply with all requirements of the proposal submission instructions. Deviations shall be fully explained; however, inclusion of price/cost in documents other than the Price Proposal is not an acceptable deviation. f. Proposal preparation costs ­ This Request for Proposals does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the preparation and submission of your quote or in making any necessary studies for the preparation thereof, or for any visit the Contracting officer may request for the purpose of clarification of the quote or for preparation of negotiations. By the submission of its offer, the vendor assumes all cost associated. Volume IV ­ Certs/Reps, Assumptions - (Submit 1 with original document and 1 copy). This volume consists of: a. Completed Representations and Certifications of Vendor (FAR Clause 52.212-3 Alt I and DFARS Clause DFARS 252.212-7000) or a statement stating that they are available online at the Online Representations and Certifications Applications (ORCA) website https://orca.bpn.gov/. b. All (if any) assumptions, conditions, or exceptions with any of the terms and conditions of the SOW. If not noted in this volume of the quote, it will be assumed that the vendor proposes no assumptions for award, and agrees to comply with all of the terms and conditions

as set forth herein. It is not the responsibility of the Government to seek out and identify assumptions, conditions, or exceptions randomly located within other volumes of the vendor's quote.
52.212-1 ADDENDUM ­ INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - - COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)

Addendum to Paragraph (c) Period for acceptance of offers: This paragraph (c) is changed to read as follows: The Vendor agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an amendment to the solicitation. Addendum to Paragraph (e) Multiple offers. This paragraph (e) is changed to read as follows: Multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions will NOT be accepted. Addendum to Paragraph (h) Multiple awards. This paragraph (h) is changed to read as follows: The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government has a right to make an offer on any item for a quantity less than the quantity quoted, at the unit prices quoted, unless the vendor specifies otherwise in the quote. Summary of Important Due Dates: Solicitation Questions Due Dates April 19, 2012 Sample Online Courses April 23, 2012 Quote May 7, 2012

(End of Instructions to Offerors)

Attachment 4

Past Performance Part I RFP: HE125420120060046­ Differentiated Instruction Online Courses
INFORMATION TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR
Provide a Minimum of Three References

Name of Agency/Command/Company Contracting Activity: Contract number: Contract type: Total contract value (Include exercised an unexercised options) At time of award: $ Currently (or at completion): $ Period of performance or delivery schedule (Include exercised an unexercised options) At time of award: Currently (or at completion): Brief description or title of contract requirements. Use space as needed, but do not exceed one typewritten
page per contract.

Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO) Use current name as point of contact for on-going contracts or the last
individual's name for completed contracts.

Name: Telephone number: Facsimile number: E-mail address: Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) Name: Telephone number: Facsimile number: E-mail address: Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO): Name: Telephone number: Facsimile number: E-mail address: Brief description of any problems encountered and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. Use space as needed, but do not exceed one typewritten page per contract.

Past Performance Part II
HE1254-12-T-0002: Differentiated Instruction Online Courses Respondent Information (To be completed by vendor's identified references)
You have been identified as having been a customer of the following company for providing: Requesting Company Name: The Dept. of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) is conducting an evaluation of this company's previous record of performance as part of a source selection process to award a contract for similar services. We cordially request you complete and forward this questionnaire: Not Later Than: 5:00 PM, Monday, May 7, 2012 to the DoDEA Procurement Office via FAX #: 703/588-3713. For questions related to this form, please contact: Summerlin Walker, Contract Specialist, at (703) 588-3622. 2. Point Of Contact (POC): 1. Company Information ______________________________________ _____________________________ Name / Title Name (___)________________(___)______________ _____________________________ Street Address Phone Number Fax Number _____________________________ ______________________________________ City State Zip Code Email Address 5. Services Received: Briefly Describe Services Received: ___________________________________________________ Country Where Services Performed: ______________ Approx. Value of Services: $____________ Date You Began Using This Firm's Services: ______________ 6. Rate Services Received Please rate services received by entering and "X" in the applicable rating block below :
Satisfactory Neutral Unacceptable

Quality Of Product Or Service And Compliance With Contract Requirements Customer Service Program Effectiveness Overall Satisfaction Of Performance/Service If Applicable Training 7. Please Provide Written Comments To Explain Your Ratings (Use Additional Sheets If Necessary):

8. Rater: _________________________ _____________________________ Signature Printed Name & Title ____________ Date

Attachment 5

ADDENDUM TO FAR 52.212-2 EVALUATION Relative Importance of Factors. The Government will award a contract resulting from the solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation is the most advantageous to the Government; price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate the offers: Technical Capability, Past Performance and Price. When combined Technical Capability and Past Performance are significantly more important than price. Pass-Fail Technology Review Pass: The Offeror's technology components, which will be evaluated by the Government, meet the information security and technology requirements criteria listed in the Performance Work Statement. Fail: If any of the Offeror's technology components fails to meet DoDEA's information security and technology requirements, such component shall be excluded from further evaluation. FACTOR 1: TECHNICAL CAPABILITY

a. Technical Capability ­ This evaluation will evaluate the offerors by the proposals received in response to the Online Course on Differentiated Instruction Request for Proposals using the following factors:
       To what extent does each course align to the principles of Differentiated Instruction (DI) which include but are not limited to the following that all teachers use. Course goals, representative of the scope of the course and clearly stated. Sufficient rigor, depth and breadth to address DoDEA teachers' needs to practice DI in their classroom. To what extent does each course provide pre- and post-assessment for each online course that adequately measure mastery of content? To what extent does each course meet DoDEA's requirements (1) to cover broad, cross-curricular DI topics and (2) to address teachers' DI needs by grade band, content, and position? Course content reflects best available research and practice about differentiated learning for teaching, learning and leadership. Includes excellent integration of differentiated learning and content/curriculum-related topics, readings and activities that provide teachers with authentic information and applications to course content. Enables teachers to develop further expertise in integrating differentiated instruction and subject content, teaching strategies, use of technologies and other essential elements in teaching, learning and leadership. Consists of stand-alone (learning objectives) lessons with no references or dependency on previous or future lessons that teachers can adapt/provide differentiated instruction to address student learning needs.





b. Order of Importance ­ The order of importance of these factors is Technical, Past Performance and Price. When combined Technical and Past Performance are significantly more important than price. EVALUATION METHODOLOGY The SSEB shall conduct an in-depth review of each proposal against the factors and subfactors established in the solicitation, and assign evaluation ratings. Technical Rating Evaluation. The technical rating reflects the degree to which the proposed approach meets or does not meet the minimum performance or capability requirements through an assessment of the strengths, weaknesses, deficiencies, and risks of a proposal. A combined technical/risk rating includes consideration of risk in conjunction with the strengths, weaknesses, and deficiencies in determining technical ratings. Combined technical/risk evaluations shall utilize the combined technical/risk ratings listed in Table 1. Table 1. Combined Technical/Risk Ratings Color Rating Description Blue Excellent Proposal meets requirements and indicates an exceptional approach and understanding of the requirements. Strengths far outweigh any weaknesses. Risk of unsuccessful performance is very low. Purple Good Proposal meets requirements and indicates a thorough approach and understanding of the requirements. Proposal contains strengths which outweigh any weaknesses. Risk of unsuccessful performance is low. Proposal meets requirements and indicates an adequate approach and understanding of the requirements. Strengths and weaknesses are offsetting or will have little or no impact on contract performance. Risk of unsuccessful performance is no worse than moderate. Proposal does not meet requirements and contains one or more deficiencies. Proposal is unawardable.

Green

Acceptable

Red

Unacceptable

FACTOR 2: PAST PERFORMANCE Past Performance Evaluation. The past performance evaluation will result in an assessment of the offeror's probability of meeting the solicitation requirements. The past performance evaluation considers each offeror's demonstrated recent and relevant record of performance in supplying products and services that meet the contract's requirements. One performance confidence assessment rating is assigned for each offeror after evaluating the offeror's recent past performance, focusing on performance that is relevant to the contract requirements. See FAR 15.305. There are two aspects to the past performance evaluation. The first is to evaluate the offeror's past performance to determine how relevant a recent effort accomplished by the offeror is to the effort to be acquired through the source selection. The criteria to establish what is recent and relevant shall be unique to each source selection and shall be stated in the solicitation. In establishing what is relevant for the acquisition, consideration should be given to those aspects of an offeror's contract history that would have the greatest ability to measure whether the offeror

will satisfy the current procurement. Common aspects of relevancy include similarity of service/support, complexity, dollar value, contract type, and degree of subcontract/teaming. Table 2. Past Performance Relevancy Ratings Rating Relevant Definition Present/past performance effort involved similar scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires. Present/past performance effort involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort and complexities this solicitation requires.

Not Relevant

The second aspect of the past performance evaluation is to determine how well the contractor performed on the contracts. The past performance evaluation performed in support of a current source selection does not establish, create, or change the existing record and history of the offeror's past performance on past contracts; rather, the past performance evaluation process gathers information from customers on how well the offeror performed those past contracts. Sources of Past Performance Information for Evaluation are as follows: ˇ Past performance information shall be obtained from questionnaires tailored to the circumstances of the acquisition. ˇ Past performance information shall be obtained from any other sources available to the government, to include, but not limited to, the Past Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), Electronic Subcontract Reporting System (eSRS), or other databases; interviews with Program Managers, Contracting Officers, and Fee Determining Officials; and the Defense Contract Management Agency. The PCO will review this past performance information and determine the quality and usefulness as it applies to performance confidence assessment.  Performance Confidence Assessment. In conducting a performance confidence assessment, each offeror shall be assigned one of the ratings in Table 3. (Reference FAR 15.305(2) for information on assigning an unknown/neutral confidence rating.)

Table 3. Performance Confidence Assessments Rating Substantial Confidence Description Based on the offeror's recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a high expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort. Based on the offeror's recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a reasonable expectation that the offeror will

Satisfactory Confidence

successfully perform the required effort. Limited Confidence Based on the offeror's recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a low expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort. Based on the offeror's recent/relevant performance record, the Government has no expectation that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.

No Confidence

Unknown Confidence (Neutral) No recent/relevant performance record is available or the offeror's performance record is so sparse that no meaningful confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned.

FACTOR 3: PRICE CONTRACT PRICE The Price proposals will be evaluated separately by the Contract Specialist to ensure price reasonableness for the services being provided to the Government, considering the specific terms and conditions and relevant commercial practices.

Attachment 6 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 52.204-7 52.212-1 52.212-2 52.212-4 52.222-3 52.222-19 Central Contractor Registration APR 2008 Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items JUN 2008 Evaluation ­ Commercial Items JAN 1999 Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items JUN 2010 Convict Labor JUN 2003 Child Labor -- Cooperation with Authorities and JUL 2010 Remedies 52.222-21 Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities FEB 1999 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity MAR 2007 52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Veterans SEP 2010 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities OCT 2010 52.222-37 Employment Reports on Veterans SEP 2010 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons FEB 2009 52.224-1 Privacy Act Notification APR 1984 52.224-2 Privacy Act APR 1984 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central OCT 2003 Contractor Registration 52.233-3 Protest After Award AUG 1996 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim OCT 2004 252.201-7000 Contracting Officer's Representative DEC 1991 252.204-7004 Alt Central Contractor Registration Alternate A SEP 2007 A 252.212-7000 Offeror Representations and Certifications- Commercial JUN 2005 Items CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT 52.212-4 ADDENDUM ­ CONTRACTS TERMS AND CONDITIONS - - COMMERCIAL ITEMS

CONSENT TO DE-OBLIGATION OF EXCESS FUNDS AFTER FINAL PAYMENT (a) This paragraph is an addendum to FAR 52.212-4. (b) The Contractor agrees that, after final payment has been made, the Government may unilaterally, and without obtaining further approval from the Contractor, adjust the final quantities of goods and/or services delivered and accepted under this contract and adjust the final price of this contract to conform to the total amount paid as of the date final payment was made. (c) In accordance with FAR 4.804-3, the paying office shall close the contract file upon issuance of the final payment voucher. No contract modification will be issued to de-obligate the excess funds. (d) If this contract is a type of indefinite-delivery contract (e.g., indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity, requirements), this paragraph shall apply to each order issued under the contract on a case-by-case basis. (e) This paragraph shall be deemed to be written agreement of the parties as contemplated by the changes paragraph of the Contract Terms And Conditions ­ Commercial Items clause of this contract (FAR 52.212-4(c)).

(End of addendum to FAR 52.212-4) 52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2011) ALTERNATE I (APR 2011)

An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (b) through (i) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision: "Emerging small business" means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores;

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. Sensitive technology-(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more servicedisabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; or (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------. (Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (n) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.)

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, ( ) is not a women-owned small business concern. Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that(i) It * is, * is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: .] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: ------------. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ) is, a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: _____________________________________________ (10) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. (Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.) (i) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the designated industry groups (DIGs).) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ) is, ( ) is not an emerging small business. (ii) (Complete only for solicitations indicated in an addendum as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or designated industry groups (DIGs).) Offeror represents as follows: (A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or (B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). (Check one of the following): Average Annual Number of Employees Gross Revenues ___ 50 or fewer ___ $1 million or less ___ 51 - 100 ___ $1,000,001 - $2 million ___ 101 - 250 ___ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million

___ 251 - 500 ___ $3,500,001 - $5 million ___ 501 - 750 ___ $5,000,001 - $10 million ___ 751 - 1,000 ___ $10,000,001 - $17 million ___ Over 1,000 ___ Over $17 million (11) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.) (i) General. The offeror represents that either-(A) It ( ) is, ( ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search Database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ( ) has, ( )( has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ____________.)

(12) Complete if the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(10) of this provision.) (The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls): ____Black American. ____Hispanic American. ____Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). ____Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall

Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). ____Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). ____Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-(1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation, the and (ii) It ( ) has, ( ) has not, filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-(i) It ( ) has developed and has on file, ( ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ( ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $100,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Program--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available offthe-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies."

(2) Foreign End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

(List as necessary) (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-theshelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) ) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: LINE ITEM NO. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products:

LINE ITEM NO.

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

[List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.: ___________________________________________ [List as necessary] (3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'': Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No.:

Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products Line Item No.: Country of Origin:

[List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-(1) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; and (2) ( ) Have, ( ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (3) ( ) Are, ( ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) [ballot] Have, [ballot] have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. Sec. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS

Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec. 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). (The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).) (1) Listed End Product Listed End Product       

Listed Countries of Origin:

(2) Certification. (If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.) ( )(i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ( ) (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that is has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) ( )In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ( ) Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to

compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) (The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.) ( ) (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that-(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. ( ) (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ) does ( ) does not certify that-(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.)

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ( ) TIN: --------------------. ( ) TIN has been applied for. ( ) TIN is not required because: ( ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; ( ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ( ) Sole proprietorship; ( ) Partnership; ( ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ( ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ( ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ( ) Foreign government; ( ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ( ) Other ----------. (5) Common parent. ( ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ( ) Name and TIN of common parent: Name --------------------. TIN --------------------.

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-- (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. (2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) 52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2011) (DEVIATION) (a) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (a) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times, the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement.

Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (b)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of any other clause in this contract, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (b)(i) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note). (ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (DEC 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) Reserved. (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (SEP 2006) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (JUN 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___ Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.

(xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause) 52.216-18 ORDERING. (OCT 1995)

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from contract award through 6 years. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of clause) 52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS. (OCT 1995)

There are no minimum or maximum order quantities under this contract. The Contractor shall honor all orders received unless an order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within five calender days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of clause) 52.216-21 REQUIREMENTS (OCT 1995)

(a) This is a requirements contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies or services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. Except as this contract may otherwise provide, if the Government's requirements do not result in orders in the quantities described as "estimated'' or "maximum" in the Schedule, that fact shall not constitute the basis for an equitable price adjustment. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. Subject to any limitations in the Order Limitations clause or elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish to the Government all supplies or services specified in the Schedule and called for by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (c) Except as this contract otherwise provides, the Government shall order from the Contractor all the supplies or services specified in the Schedule that are required to be purchased by the Government activity or activities specified in the Schedule. (d) The Government is not required to purchase from the Contractor requirements in excess of any limit

on total orders under this contract. (e) If the Government urgently requires delivery of any quantity of an item before the earliest date that delivery may be specified under this contract, and if the Contractor will not accept an order providing for the accelerated delivery, the Government may acquire the urgently required goods or services from another source. (f) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 3 years. (End of clause) 52.217-5 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS (JUL 1990)

Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government's best interests, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (End of provision)

52.217-8

OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 60 days of contract expiration. (End of clause) 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor 30 days of contract expiration; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 36 months. (End of clause)

52.233-2

SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) HQ Procurement Division Attention: David Perry 4040 North Fairfax Drive Arlington, VA 22203 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of provision) 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): FAR clauses/provisions: http://www.arnet.gov/far DFARS clauses/provisions: http://www.acq.osd.mil FAR and DFARS clauses/provisions: http://farsite.hill.af.mil (End of clause) 52.252-6 AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Department of Defense FAR Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (End of clause) 252.212-7001 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO DEFENSE ACQUISITIONS OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (DEC 2010) (DEVIATION) (a) In addition to the clauses listed in paragraph (b) of the Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items clause of this contract (FAR 52.212-5) (OCT 2010) (DEVIATION), the Contractor shall include the terms of the following clause, if applicable, in subcontracts for commercial items or commercial components, awarded at any tier under this contract: 252.237-7010 252.237-7019 Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel (NOV 2010) (Section 1038 of Pub. L. 111-84). Training for Contractor Personnel Interacting with Detainees

252.247-7003

252.247-7023 252.247-7024

(SEP 2006) (Section 1092 of Pub. L. 108-375). Pass-Through of Motor Carrier Fuel Surcharge Adjustment to the Cost Bearer (JUL 2009) (Section 884 of Public Law 110417) Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAY 2002) (10 U.S.C. 2631) Notification of Transportation of Supplies by Sea (MAR 2000) (10 U.S.C. 2631)

(End of clause)

