PART I - THE SCHEDULE SECTION A - SOLICITATION FORM

Request for Proposal No. AHRQ-13-10001

Date Issued: November 30, 2012, 12:00 PM EST Date Questions Due: December 7, 2012, 12:00 PM EST Date Notice of Intent Due: January 3, 2013, 12:00 PM EST Date Proposals Due: January 13, 2013, 12:00 PM EST You are invited to submit a proposal to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) for Request for Proposal (RFP) No. AHRQ-13-10001 entitled Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) Medical Provider Component (MPC). Your proposal must be developed and submitted in accordance with the requirements and instructions of this RFP. Solicitation Information: Please review the table of contents and refer to the appropriate section of this RFP for requirements, proposal instructions and evaluation information. The Government intends to award this contract without negotiations, so it is imperative that all questions are addressed during the solicitation phase, and that all proposals submitted include the required information and accept the terms and conditions as stated. Failure to comply with proposal instructions or submit required information may result in the removal of a proposal from consideration for award. Please review Section L carefully. Proposal Intent: If you intend to submit a proposal in response to this solicitation, please inform the Contracting Officer of your intent by completing the Proposal Intent Response Form (See section L.13 and Attachment A) and send it to the Contracting Officer no later than January 3, 2013. You may mail it to the address below, fax it to 301-427-1740, Attention: Robert Zuhlke, Contract Specialist/Contracting Officer or email it to Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov . Questions: All Questions regarding this solicitation shall be received in this office no later than the date shown above. All questions shall be submitted electronically by e-mail to Robert Zuhlke, Contract Specialist/Contracting Officer, at the following email address: Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov . Subject line shall read: Proposal Questions RFP No. AHRQ13-10001. Answers to questions and all solicitation amendments will be posted to the Federal Business Opportunities web page: www.fedbizopps.gov. It is your responsibility to monitor the web site.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 1 of 112

Additional Information: A cost plus fixed fee contract is contemplated for a period of five (5) months, with four 20-month options. The Government anticipates awarding 1 contract from this solicitation on or about July 23, 2013. Proposals submitted in response to this solicitation must state that they are valid for a period of at least 120 days (reference FAR clause 52.215-1 in Section L of this document. The NAICS code for this requirement is 518210 with a size standard of $25,000,000. Proposal Submission: The proposal shall be signed by an authorized official to bind your organization and must be received in our Contracts Office by the due date specified above. Your proposal must be mailed to the following address: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Division of Contracts Management 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850 Attn: Robert Zuhlke, (301) 427-1714 Hand carried proposals may be dropped off at the above location. However, please allow ample time as proposals cannot be accepted until they have gone through security. We will not be held responsible for any delays that may be incurred getting your proposal through security. NOTE: The U.S. Postal Service`s Express Mail does not deliver to our Rockville, Maryland address. Packages delivered via this service will be held at a local post office for pick-up. The Government will not be responsible for picking up any mail at a local post office. If a proposal is not received at the place, date, and time specified herein, it will be considered a late proposal.

Central Contractor Registration: In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation, all contractors must be registered in the central contractor registration (CCR) database in order to conduct business with the government [See Section I - FAR clause 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration]. Reminder: The Procurement Integrity Act prohibits the unauthorized disclosure of, inquiry about, or acceptance of procurement information. Communications with any other individual outside the AHRQ contracting office may result in rejection of an offeror`s proposal. All requests for any information concerning this RFP should be referred to Robert Zuhlke, (301) 427-1714 or e-mail: Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov. Please note e-mail requests should state subject as RFP AHRQ-13-10001.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 2 of 112

TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Section A Section B Section C Section D Section E Section F Section G Section H PART II Section I Contract Clauses 66 ญ 71 Solicitation Supplies or Services & Prices/Costs Description/Specification/Work Statement Packaging and Marking Inspection and Acceptance Deliveries or Performance Contract Administration Data Special Contract Requirements Pages 1ญ2 4ญ6 7 ญ 33 34 34 35 ญ 46 47 ญ 50 51 ญ 65

PART III Section J PART IV Section K Section L Section M Attachments Attachments listed in Section J are appended at the end of this document. List of Attachments 72

Representations and Certifications Instructions, Conditions & Notices to Offerors Evaluation Factors for Award

73 ญ 81 82 ญ 107 108 ญ 112

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 3 of 112

SECTION B-SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS

B.1

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES

Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) ญ Medical Provider Component (MPC). See Section C for a complete description. B.2 ESTIMATED COST AND FIXED FEE:

a. The Estimated Costs (exclusive of fees) for performance of the work under the base period of this contract, including direct and indirect costs is $ To Be Determined (TBD). b. The Fixed Fee for the base period of this contract is $TBD. The fixed fee shall be paid in installments based on the percentage of completion of work, as determined by the Contracting Officer. Payment shall be subject to the withholding provisions of the Clause ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT and FIXED FEE incorporated herein. c. The total contract value, represented by the sum of the estimated cost plus the fixed and award fees for the base period is $TBD. Period of Performance Base Period Estimated Cost $ $ Fixed Fee $ Total

B.3 OPTION PERIODS If the Government exercises its option(s) pursuant to the option article in Section H of this contract, the Government`s total contract amount represented by the sum of the estimated cost and fixed fee will be revised as follows:
Period of Performance

Option Period 1 Option Period 2 Option Period 3 Option Period 4

Estimated Cost $ $ $ $

Fixed Fee $ $ $ $

Total

$ $ $ $

The base period and each option are separate and distinct from one another for accumulation of costs and billing purposes.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 4 of 112

OPTION TASKS SOW Task Optional Item A Optional Item B Optional Item C Optional Item D Optional Item E Optional Item F $ $ $ $ $ $ Estimated Cost $ $ $ $ $ $ Fixed Fee $ $ $ $ $ $ Total

B. 4 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO DIRECT COSTS a.
Items Unallowable Unless Otherwise Provided

Notwithstanding the clauses, ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT, and FIXED FEE, incorporated into this contract, unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the costs of the following items or activities shall be unallowable as direct costs: (1) (2) (3) Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property; Rearrangement or alteration of facilities; Purchase or lease of any item of general purpose-office furniture or office equipment regardless of dollar value. (General purpose equipment is defined as any items of personal property which are usable for purposes other than research, such as office equipment and furnishings, pocket calculators, etc.); Accountable Government property (defined as both real and personal property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or more, with a life expectancy of more than two years) and "sensitive items" (defined and listed in the Contractor's Guide for Control of Government Property, 1990, regardless of acquisition value; Travel to attend general scientific meetings; Foreign Travel; Any costs incurred prior to the contract's effective date; Rental of meeting rooms not otherwise expressly paid for by the contract; Any formal subcontract arrangements not otherwise expressly provided for in the contract;

(4)

(5) (6) (7) (8)

(9)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 5 of 112

(10) (11) (12) (13)

Consultant fees; Information Technology hardware or software; and Food and Beverages. No funding or expenditures are authorized under this contract/task order for travel or meeting expenses of any person that is not an employee of the contractor or approved subcontractor or approved consultant in accordance with the terms of the contract. See 31 USC 1345 for appropriations restrictions.

Note: Food and Beverages are unallowable costs. Contracting Officer Authorization for Food and Beverages will be only be made as specifically authorized by statute, which is extremely rare. The contractor shall not provide food or beverages of any type. The contractor shall not accept food or beverages, even if included in, or provided `free' as part of a meeting/conference `package'.

b.

Travel Costs

This contract is subject to the provisions of Public Law (P.L.) 99-234 which amends the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act to provide that contractor costs for travel, including lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses, shall be allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed the amount allowed for Federal employees. The Contractor, therefore, shall invoice and be reimbursed for all travel costs in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 31.205-46. The following applies to Educational Institutions: The Contractor shall invoice and be reimbursed for all travel costs in accordance with OMB Circular A-21 - "Cost Principles for Educational Institutions." B.5 CONTRACTING OFFICER AUTHORIZATION Other provisions of this contract notwithstanding, approval of the following items within the limits set forth is hereby granted without further authorization from the Contracting Officer. To Be Determined

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 6 of 112

SECTION C - DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATION/WORK STATEMENT Independently and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall be required to furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise provided by the Government, as needed to perform the Statement of Work as follows: Statement of Work Unless otherwise noted under a specific task, this Statement of Work applies to the base period and all options (if exercised). Medical Expenditure Panel Survey Medical Provider Component (MEPS-MPC) Support

1.0

Introduction

The MEPS Medical Provider Component (MPC) collects data from all hospitals, emergency rooms, home health care agencies, outpatient departments, long term health care facilities and pharmacies reported by MEPS Household Component (HC) respondents as well as all physicians who provide services for patients in hospitals but bill separately from the hospital. Office based medical providers where the provider is either a doctor of medicine (MD) or Osteopathy (DO) or practices under the direct supervision of an MD or DO are included in the MPC as well. For this contract, long term health care facilities include nursing homes, assisted living facilities, rehabilitation facilities, as well as any health care facility providing medical care to those reporting such care in the HC of the MEPS. Jails, prisons, and medical facilities or pharmacies outside the United States are considered out of scope for the MPC. The primary objective of the MPC is to collect data from medical providers (hospitals, physicians, home health agencies, pharmacies, long term health care facilities) on charges, payments and source of payments for medical services provided to MEPS sample persons. MPC data serve as an imputation source for item nonresponse to reduce the level of bias in survey estimates of medical expenditures. They also serve as the sole source of expenditure information for physicians who provide care in a hospital but are not billed by the hospital, as well as serving the primary source of expenditure information for Medicaid recipients, hospital care and prescription medicines. The sample for the MPC is chosen from medical providers identified in the HC as having provided care to the sample person during the year. Only providers for whom the respondent completed a signed permission form authorizing contact are candidates for the MPC. The MPC sample includes all hospitals, emergency rooms, home health care agencies, outpatient departments, pharmacies, and long term health care facilities reported by HC respondents, as well as all physicians who provide services for patients in hospitals but bill separately from the hospital (these physicians are identified by the hospitals not the HC respondents). HMOs are included. Office based medical providers where the provider is either a doctor of medicine (MD) or Osteopathy (DO) or practices under the direct supervision of an MD or DO are included in the MPC as well. Request for Proposal AHRQ-13-10001 MEPS - MPC Page 7 of 112

Home health care providers which include all home health care agencies, hospitals, social service agencies, and other places identified as providing home health care to the sample person are included in the MPC. However, self-employed and unpaid persons providing home health care services are not considered in scope for the MPC. Providers for the MPC sample for one year are identified based on three rounds of HC data collection for two HC panels. (The MEPS HC is a separate requirement that is not covered under this solicitation.) The panel design of the survey, which features five core rounds of interviewing, covers two full calendar years. The MEPS HC collects data from a sample of families and individuals in selected communities across the United States, drawn from a nationally representative subsample of households that participated in the prior year's National Health Interview Survey (conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). During the household interviews, the MEPS HC collects the following detailed information for each person in the household: demographic characteristics, health conditions, health status, use of medical services, charges and source of payments, access to care, satisfaction with care, health insurance coverage, income, and employment. There will be significant integration of work activities between the HC and MPC contractors. The two contractors must work harmoniously and integrated work activities can not have a negative impact on work products or product deliverable schedules, or public use file release dates. It is important to note that MEPS public use file release dates are on a continual accelerated schedule and the contractors must work together to adhere to these accelerations. 2.0 2.1 Scope Types of Services

The contractor shall perform the following types of services under this contract: * Survey/project management * * * * Continuity of MEPS MPC Preparation of MEPS MPC documentation Liaison and cooperation with MEPS principals Cooperation and liaison with the HC contractor assuring timely, accurate and complete file transfers so the HC contractor can complete editing/imputation work (for all files but prescribed medicines) and public use file development for all MEPS event files on schedule Cooperation with AHRQ to obtain clearances Meeting arrangements Project closeout/transfer of operations Reporting, work planning, management meetings

* * * * *

Data Collection AHRQ-13-10001 Page 8 of 112

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

* * * * * * * * * *

* *

Receiving and receipting permission forms that establishes the sample for the MPC Implementing and documenting sample Maintaining MPC provider directory including SBDs and pharmacies Unduplicating the sample Identifying hospital physicians Producing data collection forms, advance letters, and other respondent and supporting materials Recruiting, training, and managing data collection specialists and abstractors Collecting data from medical and billing offices of providers Abstracting data from billing and medical records Coding of ICD-9-CM (and ICD-10 when ICD-10 coding scheme becomes the standard), verbatim medical conditions, CPT-4, verbatim medical procedures and supplies, prescribed medicines, and providers including hospital physicians that bill separately Identify duplicate events and remove from data file

Data Processing * * * * * * * * * * * * * Providing data security Forms control and receipt Data entry Recruiting and conducting training program for coders, verifiers and supervisors Recruiting and conducting training program for data collection specialists, verifiers and supervisors Recruiting and conducting training program for abstractors, verifiers and supervisors Data matching for all MPC provider types except prescribed medicines Producing matched files for use in the production of edited/imputed analytic files Producing input files for direct feed into the expenditure editing and imputation programs Benchmarking to outside data sources and previous years MEPS estimates several times throughout data collection Run edit checks throughout the field period and correct data as needed Developing MPC internal files (include matched and unmatched data) including a prescribed medicines file Quality control including interim checks on data quality throughout the field period

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 9 of 112

2.2

Resources

The contractor shall furnish all the necessary qualified personnel, materials, supplies, equipment, services and facilities necessary to perform the work described below unless otherwise stated. 2.2.1 Storage The contractor shall store all necessary materials for a period of time determined by the Government and will investigate available technology and use the most efficient means to store all the necessary materials and documents and sensitive data. The contractor shall also set up and maintain a secure encrypted data transmission line or FTP site so that confidential data and documents can be transmitted from the contractor to AHRQ. The Government will provide hardware to the contractor for the encrypted line if an encrypted line is necessary. 3.0 3.1 3.1a Statement of Work Project Management/EVM The Contractor shall use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) in the management of this contract that is consistent with ANSI/EIA-STD-748 guidelines.

3.1b. The Contractor shall report earned value monthly based on actual data from (or reconciliable with) its accounting systems. The Government and the Contractor shall negotiate the level of the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) at which earned value shall be reported. If subcontractors are used, the Contractor shall develop and implement a system to ensure that its subcontractors comply with this requirement, and each monthly progress report must address performance at the prime and subcontractor level. 3.1c. The Contractor shall deliver with the Project Work Plan a contract-level Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) that rolls up all time-phased WBSs for the individual tasks. This IMS shall include the dependencies that exist between tasks.

3.1d. The Contractor shall deliver with the Project Work Plan a Critical Path at the contractlevel. 3.1e. The Contractor shall report Earned Value Management (EVM) data for the entire project and specific deliverables/milestones in the monthly report in the form of a Contract Performance Report (CPR). This report should contain all of the elements of the typical CPR to include: Budget at Completion (BAC) ญ total planned cost of the total project or specified deliverable/ milestone at completion; Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS) ญ cumulative expected planned cost for activities planned to be completed by the end of the reporting month; Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP) ญ cumulative amount actually spent on activities performed as of the end of the reporting month; Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP) ญ cumulative planned costs of the activities AHRQ-13-10001 Page 10 of 112

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

actually performed as of the end of the reporting month; and Cost and Schedule Variance ญ in the form of a %. 3.1f. The Contractor shall provide a corrective action plan with the monthly earned value report in cases where cost or schedule, as measured by Cost Performance Index (CPI) and Schedule Performance Index (SPI), exceeds performance thresholds. The Government and the Contractor shall negotiate the performance thresholds. The corrective action plan shall address the following items: Brief description of the issue (identify the nature of the issue as cost, schedule, performance or resources and explain why the issue came to be); Impact on project completion; Brief description of the corrective action plan strategy; and Corrective tasks/actions that are required to eliminate or mitigate the issue, including task/action number, point of contact, start and end dates and comments

3.1g. If the corrective action plan requires rebaselining (the performance baseline), the corrective action plan also shall address the following items: The proposed new baseline; The reason(s) why rebaselining is required; and Documentation of the reasonableness of the proposed new baselines and the accuracy of any new cost estimates 3.1h. The Performance Baseline, WBS, BCWS, Integrated Master Schedule, and monthly earned value report shall clearly breakout the deliverables and activities related to the development and maintenance of systems, software, databases, and websites. It shall also clearly separate development, modernization and enhancement (DME) deliverables and activities from operations and maintenance deliverables and activities. 3.1i. For all plans and specifications a draft will be submitted to the COTR for review and approval at least 6 weeks prior to the time the final plan or specification deliverable is due. Continuity of the MEPS MPC

3.2.

The contractor shall begin operation of the 2014 Medical Provider Component (MPC) in 2014 to collect data on 2013 expenditures for the 2013 Household Component estimates. The transition period between contracts is critical to the MEPS. Measures at various stages of the MPC data collection and abstraction efforts will be compared to ensure the transition of work will not negatively affect the work progress or the data itself. It is critical that continuity be maintained and that any changes between the old and new contracts be transparent to respondents (as much as possible) and data users. During the Base Period, the contractor shall prepare a survey operations and methodological report. This report shall contain detailed specifications for data collection and data processing for large medical provider surveys of national scope similar to the MPC. The contractor shall Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 11 of 112

review the existing data collection and data processing methodology used by the MEPS MPC, a large medical care establishment survey, and compare the design to other data collection and data processing methodologies and operations used by other government agencies and private entities conducting large scale medical provider surveys. These reports will have applicability to the MPC but will be broad enough to be useful for other large scale projects collecting data from medical providers. The report shall identify the specific challenges of these collections and discuss the pros and cons of different solutions. Topics covered shall include training, staffing, mode of data collection and data processing, strategies to improve upon response rates and minimize burden to respondents including leveraging EMRs will be discussed. Options considered, and specific recommendations for survey design and operational tasks and their rationale, shall all be described. Within 30 days after the effective date of the contract, the Contractor shall provide to the COR an outline of the Methodology Report which will include topics and subtopics with brief descriptions that will be included in the report. This outline will need approval by the COR prior to the Contractor moving forward with final version of the Methodology Report. The final Methodology Report shall be provided to the COR no later than the end of the base period. The MPC sample will be provided to the MPC contractor by the Government. The AHRQ will maintain strong monitoring over the expenditures, management and operations of this contract. The contractor shall maintain communication and reporting mechanisms to facilitate such monitoring. The contractor shall anticipate and plan for periodic in-person observation of data collection and processing activities by AHRQ staff at the Contract Officers discretion. 3.2.1 MEPS MPC Documentation Options considered and decisions reached regarding survey methodological issues shall be documented in written memoranda or reports to the COR. This documentation shall be delivered within 30 days of reaching decisions. The contractor shall maintain and update a Project Plan. The Project Plan shall detail major milestones in data collection, data processing and data delivery. The Project Plan shall also include staffing, field timing and quality milestones. The Project Plan shall include a person loading chart which presents the number of person-days allocated to each task and subtask for each category of staff for each year of the contract and for the total contract. The chart(s) should also delineate critical milestones and the deliverables for each. The Project Plan should also include an organizational chart(s) which presents the placement of the project within the offeror's organization and the organization of the staff proposed for this project. The chart(s) shall show clear lines of authority and function. The Project Plan should include a schedule for completion of the work and delivery of items specified in the statement of work. Particular attention should be paid to the most important milestones in the medical provider data collection. The Project Plan should detail major and intermediate milestones. The Project Plan should also specify how the work to construct the matched internal files for all provider types except prescribed medicines will be completed and managed - what tasks will be assigned to which group of persons. Key dates for the production of each file should be specified along with the proposed method(s) of quality control and Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 12 of 112

benchmarking the estimates. Performance or delivery schedules shall be indicated for phases or segments or tasks, as applicable, as well as for the overall program. The Project Plan shall affirm the delivery dates for deliverables and data files as specified in the delivery schedule. The proposed completion tasks for the milestones shall remain fixed, but on a bi-annual basis the Plan shall be updated with actual dates. At each update to the Project Plan, expected deviation from the contractually specified dates should be noted, along with any reason for deviation. Should the deviation be such that a later date is anticipated, potential corrective actions and their implications should be noted. Schedules should be shown in terms of calendar months from the effective date of the contract or, where applicable, from the date of a stated event, as for example, receipt of a required approval by the Contracting Officer. Upon approval by AHRQ, the contractor shall make necessary revisions to survey instruments and procedures which will be clearly documented. This documentation shall be delivered within 5 days of reaching decisions. An annual report documenting survey progress on each major task within the Medical Provider Component including Survey Management, Data Collection, Data Editing and Data Processing, Matching, Data Delivery, Quality Control and archival copies of decision memos shall be delivered to the COTR by June 30 of each year, referring to the previous calendar year's activities. 3.2.2 Liaison with MEPS principals The contractor shall make every effort to make the overlap between the current MEPS contract and this award as smooth as possible in the interest of maintaining respondent participation and data comparability. The contractor should establish cooperative staff-to-staff relationships in pursuit of this objective. 3.2.3 Integration of HC and MPC Contractor Tasks There must be timely and accurate data and documentation deliverables between the MPC and HC contractors (which will go through AHRQ). These deliverables will include MEPS HC data and matching variables and documentation necessary to link the HC and MPC files, as well matched HC and MPC files and documentation for use in the production of edited/imputed analytic files. Data delivered to the HC contractor for input into the expenditure editing and imputation process will be in the appropriate format and will contain the appropriate variables and variable specifications to be input directly into the editing and imputation data processing programs. All raw MPC files which will include matched and unmatched data and detailed documentation will be delivered to AHRQ. There will also need to be several discussions between the two contractors (with AHRQ oversight) that ensures all changes made in one component of the MEPS processes that has an effect on the other component's processes are known well in advance and are well documented. There must also be ongoing discussions, as needed, between the contractors on any issues and/or questions regarding file deliveries.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 13 of 112

3.2.4 Cooperate with AHRQ in obtaining required OMB clearances The contractor shall prepare materials required for any and all clearance actions during the course of the contract. This shall include preparing burden estimates, written descriptions of the survey and sample design, the design and description of any special experiments, and hard copy reproductions of survey questionnaires and respondent materials. 3.2.5 Project closeout/transfer of operations The contractor shall turn over all files, computer programs, tabulations, documentation and other items within ninety (90) days of request made by the COTR in such form (electronic and paper) that the project may be continued by a successor. 3.2.6 Monthly progress reports Beginning on the tenth calendar day of the second month of contract performance and on the tenth calendar day of every month of contract performance thereafter, the Contractor shall submit to the AHRQ Contracts Office, the COTR and other designated Center for Financing, Access and Cost Trends (CFACT) staff, a monthly progress report in electronic format, via e-mail as attachments or secure final transfer protocol (ftp) or extranet site with e-mail notification that reports are available for download. When the tenth calendar day falls on a weekend, the EVM report shall be provided to the COTR and AHRQ EVM Specialist on the preceding Friday or closet weekday. The rest of the monthly report may be provided after the weekend. At a minimum, the monthly progress report shall: summarize the progress of work performed during the reporting period, note milestones, describe past problems (including a concise statement of success or lack thereof in solving the problems encountered) describe anticipated problems and proposed solutions describe work planned for the next reporting period, compare progress and resource expenditures to the original schedule and budget and provide explanations for any variances assess whether the current total estimated contract cost is sufficient to complete the contract describe significant changes in the Contractor's operational personnel summarize all additions, modifications, and configuration changes to all project software and database designs, specifications, testing, quality assurance efforts, maintenance and operational solutions and associated work efforts accomplished during the month provide the earned value information requested in 4.1 also provide disclosure of any new work products, computer databases or programs, or any other inventions that may be subject to intellectual property protection provide a description of how the Contractor intends to manage intellectual property rights

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 14 of 112

During the project the Contractor shall hold, at a minimum, a bi-monthly management meeting at its office, at AHRQ, or through conference call during which the project will be discussed. The contractor shall submit an agenda, and any materials to be used for discussion, 5 working days in advance of the meetings. The participants in the management meetings will include the COR (in person or via telephone) and other Agency staff as appropriate, the Project Director, and relevant Contractor project staff as approved by the COR prior to the meeting. Progress will be reviewed, milestones discussed, response rates presented, problems examined, solutions explored, and short-range and long-range plans made. Action items resulting from this meeting shall be prepared by the Contractor and submitted to the COR within three days after completion of the meeting. If corrections are necessary, revised replacement minutes shall be submitted to the COR within two (2) days after receipt of the COR's comments. The contractor shall prepare and distribute minutes of all management meetings, and any other decision making meetings with AHRQ. The minutes shall include the contract number, project director, a list of attendees, a description of the issues discussed, action items, assignments and due dates. All deliverables to AHRQ should be sent as separate PDF files and a naming convention for all files agreed upon by AHRQ and the contractor will be used. 3.3 Medical Provider Component

3.3.1 Implementing and documenting the sample The contractor will be required to maintain the sample including documentation of any splits, merges and determinations of out of scope (outside the U.S., prisons, jails) providers. The sample for the 2014 MEPS MPC will be drawn from medical providers reported by HC respondents in the 2013 MEPS HC, and for providers that HC respondents signed authorization forms allowing contacting of their medical providers. To be eligible for the MPC, authorization forms are necessary for each provider for each respondent. The 2014 MPC collects 2013 data for the 2013 HC estimates. 3.3.2 Unduplicating the sample Although the provider - the office, clinic, physician, hospital, pharmacy, home health care provider, long term health care facility - is the case for the purpose of data collection operations, each MPC case may represent one or more household respondents mentioning the same provider. To prepare for the fielding of the MPC, the Contractor shall consolidate all duplications in the medical provider lists generated by household respondents. Using the most efficient means, the contractor shall review the provider sample generated by the household survey and assign unique provider identification numbers to each provider or group of providers that represent a single MPC respondent. These unique identifiers shall be constructed in a way that allows the MPC Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 15 of 112

provider to be linked to the person-events recorded in the household survey that generated the provider. This unduplication shall occur within and across households, primary sampling units (PSUs) (e.g., counties) and rounds. (The panel design of the survey, which features five core rounds of interviewing, covers two full calendar years. Each year, providers for the MPC sample are identified based on three rounds of HC data collection (the HC data collection is covered under a separate procurement). The resulting unique list of medical providers shall constitute the field sample for the MPC. The schedule for data collection requires that unduplication be conducted in an ongoing manner. The final MPC file deliveries will contain a consolidated and unduplicated ID variable that can be used to identify all MPC and HC records for each person/provider pair. This variable is critical to evaluation work at AHRQ and determining measurement error. Processes will be developed to remove duplicate events prior to data collection. 3.3.3 Provider Directory The contractor shall develop a mechanism that results in the provider directory remaining current in order to maintain functionality for data collection purposes. Currently, when found for a provider, the National Provider Identifier (NPI) is assigned. However, all providers in the MPC do not have an NPI assigned. All separately billing doctors (SBDs) and pharmacies must be included in this directory as well as other provider types eligible for the MPC data collection. From year to year, the contractor will maintain contact information at the provider level as well as for the respondent within the provider organization who provided the data. This will include not only name, title and division, but telephone, fax, and email address information for the individual and the provider. The contractor shall review existing provider directory methodology and may propose alternative methodologies which would support analytic goals and improve data quality. 3.3.4 Identifying hospital physicians that provide care to a patient in a hospital setting but who bill separately from the hospital (SBD) For each hospital event (outpatient, inpatient, emergency room), the MPC abstractor, using MPC data collection methods, shall elicit from the hospital records the names of physicians providing care to the patient during the event and who received payments not included in the accounting of charges and payment for the main hospital bill or summary of payments. These newly identified patient provider pairs become part of the MPC sample either as new cases or as additional pairs to existing cases in an ongoing manner throughout the fielding of the hospital cases. Separately billing doctors are elicited from the MPC provider or the MPC provider's medical records. Separately billing doctors are not household reported. Methods will be established to clearly distinguish separately billing doctors from other MPC provider types. 3.3.5 Provide data collection forms, advance letters, other respondent materials Materials for MPC data collection, including data collection forms, brochures and other respondent materials have been prepared for previous MEPS MPC data collection. Copies of Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 16 of 112

those materials will be provided on award. The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining, revising and adapting all questionnaires, computer programs, specifications, manuals, respondent materials and other MPC documents intrinsic to the conduct of the MPC. The contractor may rely on already developed MEPS MPC products for these materials, but shall modify them as necessary. The Government is open to new formats/alternative for these materials. All documents delivered to AHRQ shall be in electronic form readable by AHRQ, and in hard copy form, when requested. All final deliveries of instrument documentation including contact guides, training materials, MPC materials available on the MEPS web site, and reports shall be delivered in 508 compliant PDF format. On occasion, the COR may request modifications to survey instruments and/or materials. 3.3.6 Recruiting, training and managing data collection specialists The contractor shall develop procedures and materials to efficiently train all data collection staff necessary to obtain required response rates and required levels of data quality. Some training shall occur before each year of data collection. Training programs shall be designed so that all data collection staff performing the same function have the same training in content and in method. The initial training session for all new data collection specialists shall be face to face. Training manuals and materials may be adapted from those used in the current MEPS contract. Trainers are required to have expertise and experience on the tasks in which they train. Following training, data collection specialists must be able, at a minimum to: a) identify and reach appropriate respondents in physician offices and other medical facilities; b) explain the nature and purpose of the survey and answer questions commonly asked by medical and billing staff in deciding whether or not to cooperate with data collection; c) arrange with medical and billing staff any of a variety of methods for obtaining the required data; d) collect the data, if appropriate, and know procedures for probing for data; e) be able to elicit the appropriate expenditure data with over the phone or through the abstraction of financial records; f) know how to handle difficult respondents and potential refusals; g) know when and how to correctly use manuals, references and guides; h) know how to completely, accurately and in a timely manner process all administrative forms. In addition to the capabilities described above, supervisory personnel shall be able to perform the following functions: a) observe data collection specialists, recording instances of appropriate and inappropriate behavior and conveying these observations to the data collections specialist in a constructive fashion; b) counsel data collection specialists on appropriate handling of unusual situations; c) monitor data collection specialist production, and other performance measures at appropriate levels; d) conduct data collection specialist training sessions so that all data collection specialists shall receive, in substance and quality, the same training; e) convert difficult refusals; f) identify errors of data collection staff they supervise and convey to them the results of this review in a constructive manner; g) ensure the DCSs are collecting the appropriate data and can distinguish between charges, payments, and billing adjustments.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 17 of 112

The contractor shall define and implement methods for selecting data collection staff, both supervisory and non-supervisory, which will reliably predict quality performance of all data collection activities. The criteria must include previous work experience, work samples, and education. The contractor shall also propose a staffing plan that will account for cyclical retention and work flow issues while obtaining required response rates. The contractor shall develop and implement detailed data collection instructions, rules and verification procedures with adjudication procedures specified. The contractor will develop and maintain procedural manuals. 3.3.7 Recruiting, training and managing abstraction staff The contractor shall develop procedures and materials to efficiently train all abstraction staff necessary to obtain required response rates and required levels of accuracy. Some training shall occur before each year of abstraction. Training programs shall be designed so that all abstraction staff performing the same function will have the same training in content and in method. The initial training session for all new data abstractors shall be face to face. Training manuals and materials may be adapted from those used in the current MEPS contract, if deemed appropriate. Trainers are required to have expertise and experience on the tasks in which they train. Following training, abstractors must be able, at a minimum to: a) accurately abstract data items of interest to MEPS from medical and billing records at an acceptable error rate as determined by the Government, b) identify and reach appropriate respondents in hospitals and physician offices and other medical facilities; c) explain the nature and purpose of the MEPS MPC and answer questions commonly asked by medical and billing staff in terms of follow up phone calls and in deciding whether or not to participate; d) if necessary, be able to arrange with medical and billing staff any of a variety of methods for obtaining the data sought; e) collect the data, if appropriate and know procedures for probing for data; f) know how to handle difficult respondents and potential refusals; g) know when and how to correctly use manuals, references and guides; h) know how to completely, accurately and in a timely manner process all administrative forms. In addition to the capabilities described above, supervisory personnel shall be able to perform the following functions: a) observe abstractors, recording instances of appropriate and inappropriate abstraction and/or general behavior and conveying these observations to the abstractors in a constructive fashion; b) counsel abstractors on appropriate handling of unusual situations; c) monitor abstraction production, accuracy, time and expense and keep these and other performance measures at appropriate levels; d) conduct abstraction training sessions so that all abstractors shall receive, in substance and quality, the same training; e) identify errors of abstraction staff they supervise and convey to them the results of this review in a constructive manner, f) know in general the abstraction rules that apply in abstracting the data elements of interest to MEPS (charges, payments, and sources of payment) and be able to explain them to abstractors they supervise. Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 18 of 112

The contractor shall define and implement methods for selecting abstraction staff, both supervisory and non-supervisory, which will reliably predict quality performance of all abstraction activities. The criteria must include previous work experience, work samples, and education. The contractor shall also propose a staffing plan that will account for cyclical retention and work flow issues while obtaining required response rates. The contractor shall develop and implement detailed abstraction instructions, rules and verification procedures with adjudication procedures specified. The contractor will develop and maintain procedural manuals. In concert with AHRQ, a decision log will be maintained and followed as issues arise and decisions are made in how to handle different data collection situations. The decision log will be made available to all data abstractors and all data abstractors will know how to use the decision log. This will ensure consistent data collection procedures. On a regular basis as determined by the contractor in consultation with AHRQ, the decision log will be incorporated into the procedural manual. 3.3.8 Collecting data from medical providers including billing staff The MEPS MPC sample is designed to provide data on events for which household respondents are less likely to be fully aware of the financial transactions regarding the medical care received, to enrich the sample of events available as donors for imputation, and to provide a basis for methodological analysis of household reported payments for different types of events. The MPC sample consists of providers specifically identified in the MEPS HC as having provided medical care to MEPS sampled persons. The MPC sample can be split into the following groups for data collection operations: (1) Hospitals. All hospitals, including psychiatric hospitals, reported as the site of care for inpatient stays, outpatient department visits and emergency room encounters shall be included in the MPC sample. HMOs are included in this effort. Hospital physicians (i.e., separately billing doctors or SBD). Physicians identified by hospitals as providing care to sampled persons during the course of a hospital event (inpatient stay, outpatient visit, emergency room visit) who render bills apart from the hospital facility shall be included in the MPC sample. Office based sample. A sample of office based physicians providing care to targeted HC sampled persons shall be included in the MPC. HMOs are included in this data collection effort. Home health care providers. All agency home health care providers providing care to MEPS HC sampled persons shall be included in the MPC sample. Pharmacies. All pharmacies that have dispensed prescribed medicines to sampled persons shall be included in the MPC sample. HMOs are included in this effort. AHRQ-13-10001 Page 19 of 112

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

(6)

Long term health care facilities - all long term health care facilities (nursing home, assisted living facilities, rehabilitation facilities, etc.) providing care to MEPS HC sampled persons living in the community for part of the year shall be included in the MPC sample.

All hospitals, home health care agencies, pharmacies and long term health care health facilities (including nursing homes, assisted living facilities, etc.) are in scope for the MPC. Other providers and sites of care are in-scope for MPC (office based sample) if the provider is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or if the provider works under the direction and/or supervision of a MD or DO. For example, physician assistants and nurse practitioners working in clinics are medical providers considered in scope for the MPC. Chiropractors and dentists are out of scope (unless practicing in a hospital). Medical care received in prisons and jails and medical care received outside the United States is considered out of scope for the MPC. HMOs are included in the hospital, office based and pharmacy provider types. Based on historical sample projections, AHRQ anticipates the eligible 2014 MPC sample, which collects 2013 CY data for the 2013 MEPS HC estimates, to be no larger than the estimates in Table 3.3.8(A). This data collection would occur in Option Period 1. The MPC sample to provide data for 2013 estimates is composed of two parts - - providers associated with 2013 events for persons enrolled in MEPS beginning in 2012 and providers associated with 2013 events for persons enrolled in MEPS beginning in 2013. For 2013 events encountered by persons/ households in the 2012 HC panel and the 2013 HC panel, the Government will provide sample frame materials and appropriate hard copy materials, including permission forms, to the contractor. The samples identified in Table 3.3.8(A) constitute a national sample of medical providers associated with medical care received as identified by households in a representative sample of the civilian non-institutionalized population. The estimated eligible sample sizes have taken into account historical permission forms signing rates as well as proportions of providers determined to be out of scope. The expected number of completed pairs takes into account required response rates for each provider type. Because the objective of the project is to produce nationally representative estimates of healthcare expenses, the MEPS MPC must be operationalized so as to achieve the specified response rates. From time to time, for some providers, the Government may identify certain patient-provider pairs as high priority for special attention to response during the field period.

Table 3.3.8(A) ญ Option Period 1: Estimated MPC sample sizes - pair level
Activity Estimate for 2014 MPC which collects data for CY 2013

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 20 of 112

HC estimates Hospitals Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Long term care Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Home health Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Office Based Physicians Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x 90% response rate) Pharmacy Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x 85% response rate) Hospital Identified Physicians (i.e., separately billing doctors)* Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed nodes (final n x 90% response rate) 29,000 26,100 20,000 17,000 16,200 14, 580 550 495 110 99 10,440 9,396

*SBD nodes are created for each separately billed doctor associated with each event identified in the hospital data collection

Data collection methods may include phone, fax, mail, self administration, and electronic transmission (including CD-ROMS and secure transmission on line or via the Internet). Each year of the MPC, all providers shall be screened to ascertain their eligibility, their association with the MEPS household respondent, and to obtain information to facilitate the conduct of the core MPC interview. Currently, an Integrated Data Collection System (IDCS) that includes a Web component in which the MEPS-MPC forms are programmed for computer-assisted data Request for Proposal AHRQ-13-10001 MEPS - MPC Page 21 of 112

entry (CADE) and a case management system (CMS) is used for data collection. The Government is open to alternatives to the current data collection methods. The data collection method chosen for a provider will be the method that results in the most complete and accurate data with least burden to the provider. Technology for data capture from medical providers is continually evolving and monitoring of this technology and maintaining compatibility with these systems is critical. Response rates for the MPC medical providers are expected to be at least 90 percent for medical care providers and 85 percent for pharmacies. The schedule for data collection and data delivery will be dependent on dates the HC contract has in terms of producing the public use files. There may be different data collection schedules, data collection methods, and data delivery schedules for different MPC provider types. At a minimum a data collection schedule similar to the one currently followed will have to be met: data collection for all event types except separately billing doctors will begin in February following the data collection year of interest and will end late/end of October. For separately billing doctors, data collection will begin in late October following the data collection year of interest and will end in late /end of February. As file delivery dates are accelerated data collection start and end dates may also need to be accelerated. Overlapping several provider type data collection periods will be necessary to achieve required response rates. This includes data collection for separately billing doctors. The data collection management team must be flexible in assigning staff to different provider type data collection depending on the time of year, the flow of incoming records/data, the skill level of the current data collection staff and the status of the current field period. The method of data collection is now done in waves, e.g., the Contractor organizes several provider-pair requests for data in one data collection effort. This happens for 2-3 waves and then providers are followed up with again as necessary. Specifications will be developed to make a determination of high priority and low priority events. This determination will be made based on various characteristics of the person and event and will be made in consultation with AHRQ. This distinction will help in prioritizing work throughout the field period. For each provider type, official notification in the form of a deliverable must be provided to the Government indicating to the Government that the data collection task is complete and the date it was completed, as well as all necessary QC and final results of the data collection. During field operations, field progress will be reported bi-weekly to the COR and cost reports shall be reported monthly to the COR. An agreed upon format for the field progress and cost reports will be agreed upon by the Contractor and the AHRQ COR. This schedule may vary at certain times during data collection and requests for this must either be generated from the COR or by approval of the COR. Supervision through supervised data collection and abstraction, reviews of individual data collection and abstraction and other means of observation and verifications shall be maintained to assure the quality of the data. The contractor shall arrange for systematic and timely reporting of quality control data to the COR. The contractor shall maintain toll-free telephone communications for respondents (and data collection specialists and abstractors, if necessary) with the central office so that all questions can be answered efficiently, and problems anticipated will be dealt with proactively. Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 22 of 112

3.3.9 Data collection quality control activities A key element of this project is the efficient implementation of data collection quality control activities. The contractor shall develop a data collection quality control plan that at a minimum includes the following two activities. The first, which covers all event types, is the identification of anomalous data patterns called edit shop. Patient-provider pairs and/or events that fail one or more edits shall be reviewed by an expert to determine the resolution of the anomaly. (A list of current edits is provided in the list of references.) This review shall include reviewing hard copy records when available and may require a recall to the provider. In most instances of a failed edit, the entire event or pair will need a review. When a failed edit is corrected, the expert editor shall provider direct feedback to the DCS. In addition, each data collection specialists/abstractors work will be checked at 100 percent during the first two weeks of data collection. Each data collection specialist/abstractor must achieve an error rate of 2 percent or lower for specific groups of key data elements (charge and payment data being one group, location of service being the other group) with charge and payment data being the most important group. The error rate shall be calculated as the number of inaccurately collected variables and/or the number of variables that are missing as the numerator and the total number of collected variables generated by the data collection specialist/abstractor as the denominator. This is not simply a re-keying activity nut will include reviewing the original data. As each data collection specialist/abstractor achieves the target error rate or better, verification can be reduced to a ten percent batch sample of each data collection specialist/abstractor's work. Batches exceeding the target error rate based on the sample shall be subjected to 100 percent verification. Evidence of meeting the specified targets and requirements will have to be provided to the AHRQ at least at the beginning of each data collection specialist/abstractor's employment. When a key data element fails verification the data collection specialist/abstractor's work on that pair shall be adjudicated. The adjudication shall be performed by persons expert at reading billing records who have been educated on the analytic goals of the project. Verification and adjudication shall occur within 2 working days of the end of a batch to provide feedback to the data collection specialist/abstractor. A batch shall never consist of more than 2 weeks of a data collection specialist/abstractor's work. The data collection specialist/abstractor shall receive feedback on failed items directly from the adjudicator. It is expected that the adjudicator shall review any hardcopy records available at the time of the adjudication. In addition, it is expected that the adjudicator will from time to time need to contact the original provider for additional clarification. The initial plan and methodology for this quality control activity will need to be described and prepared for discussion and approval by AHRQ. Throughout the life of the project, the error rate percentage, percent of events/pairs elected for review and the methodology can be modified in consultation with and approval by AHRQ to meet the project goals.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 23 of 112

Reports on error rates for the project as a whole and for each DCS/abstractor shall be provided to AHRQ every other week during periods of active data collection. At agreed upon times during data collection (at least once in early data collection and once mid data collection), the AHRQ shall be provided reporting metrics on data quality along with the original data. 3.3.10 Onsite data collection project management staff The data collection project management staff will be required to spend at least 80 percent of their time on site where the data collection is physically taking place to ensure adequate and proper management and supervision of the data collection activities. This will include having in depth knowledge of data collection floor activities and status, staff and production. The MPC Project Director will be required to be onsite where the data collection physically takes place at least one full day every two weeks and at least one full day a week during critical or peak data collection periods or as requested by the COR. All staff with direct responsibility for oversight of data collection tasks shall be available to be in the data collection sites for all of their billed hours without additional costs to the Government. 3.4 Data Processing

Data Processing Report A data processing report shall include a detailed report of all data processing activities and will include all milestones. Detailed specifications of milestones, intermediate deliverables and final deliverables will be included in this report. A detailed timeline and schedule will also be included which will include a schedule of handoffs with other key RTI MPC activities (e.g., data collection, data editing, coding, etc.) as well as hand offs with the HC contractor. Review time for the HC contractor will be built into the schedule as well. 3.4.1 Providing data security The Contractor shall provide for the secure and confidential storage of all hardcopy materials and computer files, as specified by the COTR. In addition, the Contractor shall provide for the secure and confidential transmission of data between the central office, data collection staff and abstractors, as well as for the secure storage of information residing on the MPC staff computers or laptops, if necessary. The contractor shall also set up and maintain a secure encrypted data transmission so that confidential data and documents can be transmitted from the contractor to AHRQ. Within 30 days of award, the contractor shall submit a draft, and within 90 days a final plan and implementation schedule for data security. The plan and actual implementation for data security shall conform to all current government regulations for the use and storage of confidential data.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 24 of 112

3.4.2 Forms control and receipt The contractor shall develop and implement data and forms receipt procedures that achieve the greatest efficiency. These procedures shall include the monitoring and quality control of each stage of data receipt, procedures for identifying and handling data collection instruments, procedures for insuring transmission of data and other communication between the central office and data collection and abstraction staff. The means for tracking the receipt of electronic and hard copy materials (such as medical and billing records) and flagging overdue or outstanding materials, electronic or hardcopy documents related to a case shall be provided. 3.4.3 Data entry If the data is collected in hard copy, the contractor shall develop, reproduce and implement detailed scanning and keying, training and verification procedures. Verification shall begin at a rate of 100 percent and continue until a specific rate of one percent or less is consistently achieved. Once the one percent error rate is achieved, verification shall be reduced to a ten percent sample of each day's work for each scanner or keyer. Batches with error rates in the sample of greater than one percent shall be subject to 100 percent verification. Keyers who cannot achieve and/or maintain an error rate below one percent shall be released. When requested, keying error rate reports will be provided to the Government. 3.4.4 Conducting training program for coders and verifiers to the extent this activity is not performed in data capture activity The MEPS MPC data collection instrument contains a number of text fields that need to be converted to numeric form. These include. (1) Sources of payment information reported in the MPC. Source of payment specification will be provided to the contractor after awarding of the contract. All conditions including verbatim conditions reported during the MPC data collection these shall be classified using the ICD-9-CM classification scheme (and ICD-10 when ICD-10 coding scheme becomes the standard). All prescribed drugs reported in the MPC data collection. All National Drug Codes (NDCs) and any drug names collected in lieu of NDCs will be coded using a coding scheme that will allow matching between household drug mentions and MPC drug mentions. All supplies identified in the MPC shall be coded using BETOS coding specifications Doctors that bill separately from hospital coding

(2)

(3)

(4) (5)

The contractor shall develop and conduct a training program for coders and verifiers. The contractor shall develop and implement detailed coding instructions, rules and verification Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 25 of 112

procedures with adjudication procedures specified. A procedural manual shall be developed and maintained for coders and verifiers. This will ensure consistent coding for all coders. Each coder's work shall be checked at 100 percent during the first two weeks of coding or until the error rate is less than 2 percent, where the error rate is calculated as the number of codes for which there is disagreement as the numerator and the total number of codes generated by the coder as the denominator. As each coder achieves the target error rate or better, verification can be reduced to a ten percent batch sample of each coder's work. Batches exceeding the target error rate based on the sample shall be subjected to 100 percent verification. Verification and adjudication shall occur within 2 working days of the end of a batch to provide feedback to the coder. Coders who cannot achieve and/or maintain an acceptable error rate shall be released from the project. The contractor will develop and maintain a coding and verifying procedural manual(s). In concert with AHRQ, a decision log will be maintained and followed as issues arise and decisions are made in how to handle different coding situations. The decision log will be made available to all coders and verifiers and all coders and verifiers will know how to use the decision log. This will ensure consistent coding and verification procedures. On a regular basis as determined by the contractor in consultation with AHRQ, the decision log will be incorporated into the procedural manual. When requested, error rate reports will be provided to the Government. All coding mechanisms employed in the MPC will need to mirror those used on the HC of the MEPS contract to ensure appropriate linkages and matching between the files as the files will be used by each contractor. A reporting mechanism between the MPC and HC contractors will have to be developed and agreed upon by both contractors to ensure this takes place. 3.4.5 Matching The contractor shall develop specifications for matching data collected in the Medical Provider Component with complementary data collected in the Household Component. These specifications will include step by step delineation of the method to be used for matching individual household and medical provider reported events and a complete detailed listing of the variables that will be needed from the household survey to implement that process. The specification of the matching methodology will include identification of the process for rolling up and de-duplicating the raw MPC data so that each record is a unique medical event, MPC prematching consistency checks and logical edits, the specific matching procedure to be used for each event type (hospital, office based, separately billing doctor, home health, pharmacy and long term health care), the post matching quality control process, and the structure of the matched files. Logical edits include assigning missing values if appropriate, reviewing and cleaning the data to accurately reflect skip patterns, and reviewing distributions and frequencies of key charge and payments variables. Roll ups occur and are necessary when individual reported MPC events should be rolled up into one event for matching MPC events to HC reported medical events. Duplicate events occur when more than one record is entered for the same person, provider and medical event. When this happens de-duplication needs to occur. The Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 26 of 112

list of needed household variables will be forwarded to the household data collection contractor, who will then provide the requested variables and appropriate documentation. The MPC contractor will deliver copies of the raw MPC files for each event type to AHRQ, and copies of the matched files to AHRQ (which will go to the HC contractor via AHRQ). The matched files must also include necessary matching and linking variables and must be in the appropriate format for variables to be input directly in the expenditure editing and imputation programs. Currently, for all medical provider event types except prescribed medicines, a probabilistic statistical procedure based on a customized SAS program is used to link household and medical provider events. Detailed specifications for this method and the prescribed drug method will be provided on award. Enhancements or revisions to improve matching are encouraged, subject to review and approval by the COR.
Available for review: 1) 2011 MPC Plan for Matching MPC to HC Events, RTI

International, May 2011. 3.4.6 Developing internal MPC data files and matched HC and MPC files The main goal of this procurement is the delivery of high quality, timely and accurate data to AHRQ which will then go to the MEPS HC contractor. To this end, AHRQ requires the development of internal (non public) MPC files for all MPC event types (hospital stays, emergency room visits, outpatient visits, separately billing doctors, office based provider visits, home health care, prescribed medicines, and long term health care) and documentation. The MPC Contractor will receive the MPC sample from which these files will be prepared from the HC contractor as well as all necessary authorization forms via AHRQ. The contractor will also receive from the HC contractor (via AHRQ) the necessary data and linking variables to perform the matching process between MPC and HC events. The MPC contractor shall provide documentation for the files as well as for the matching process used in the MPC to HC matching. Matched HC and MPC files in the prescribed format will be provided with detailed documentation. 3.4.6.1 Prescribed Medicines For the prescribed medicines file only, the MPC contractor shall complete the following: (1) produce a flat file of the pharmacy data by designing, testing and implementing basic edit checks and procedures to determine and resolve any inconsistencies no matter the mode of participation by a pharmacy (fax, mail, CD-ROM, or FTP) (2) deliver the flat file in the format determined by AHRQ, and (3) perform quality control checks on the final version of the file and at a minimum benchmark key variables against previous years data. 3.4.7 Internal Files Production and Deliveries As part of its efforts, the contractor shall: (1) design, test and implement procedures to clean raw data, including resolution of inconsistencies, (2) perform quality control checks on final version of matched files, (3) produce and deliver internal MPC files that include matched and unmatched Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 27 of 112

data and (4) produce matched files in the prescribed format and necessary matching variables and documentation. The Contractor shall organize the data collected in the MPC into data files usable with the SAS statistical software package with documentation. All data file deliveries shall include the following: * * The original uncleaned flat file and complete documentation for the file (including prescribed medicines. The final rolled up matched version of each event file (cleaned version), except prescribed medicines with: * A codebook containing variable names, labels, and formats, as well as weighted and unweighted frequencies for each formatted variable. Totals will also be provided. Positional information will be provided as will variable length and variable type. * Documentation containing variable names and descriptions. Variable formats and a crosswalk between the data collection instrument and the variables produced shall also be included. Matching specifications, and matching variables and documentation Appropriate, timely and QC'd deliveries and matched data files to go to HC contractor (through AHRQ) that will include detailed documentation. This deliverable will also include matching variables as well MPC variables needed for editing and imputation. It will be in the appropriate format to be input directly into the expenditure and editing programs. For the prescribed medicines file, the MPC contractor will produce a flat file of the pharmacy where basic edit checks and procedures to clean the raw data and determine and resolve any inconsistencies has been performed.

* * *

*

3.4.8

Quality Control

The contractor shall develop a quality control plan that provides details of how quality control will be addressed for all major deliverables and tasks. The plan shall detail how they shall monitor and control the services provided in terms of: timeliness, accuracy, relevance, accessibility, cost-effectiveness, technical requirements and contract provisions. This plan shall identify which quality standards are relevant to the project and determine how to satisfy them. The contractor will apply the quality control activities identified in the plan and monitor specific project results to determine whether they comply with relevant quality standards. The contractor will identify ways to eliminate causes of unsatisfactory performance. At a minimum, this plan shall address: * Overall project quality control including any proposed evaluations addressing efforts to reduce errors, data collection specialist, abstractor and coder monitoring, training and Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 28 of 112

retraining of staff, change control process, planning for cyclical changes in staffing and workload * Identification of major data quality indicators that require weekly monitoring during data collection (missing data, response rate) * Data capture instrument change - question development, programming, if needed, testing and evaluation * Version control for documentation, forms, and memos, and design changes * A check list of items to be verified for all data deliverables (is the number of records correct, has benchmarking been completed and if so, what were the results of the benchmarking), has the documentation and cover memo been checked for accuracy) * Adequate and timely documentation to assure repeatability of all data capture and matching * The development and maintenance of decision logs and procedural manuals for all data coding, data entry, data collection, data editing, data abstraction, and verification activities * Benchmarking to external and previous year MEPS estimates for key data elements as defined by AHRQ, with particular emphasis on expenditure and source of payment variables * Plan to enumerate abstraction standards and monitor abstraction error rates * Plan to enumerate coding standards and monitor coding error rates * Setting up a structure in which responses to requests by providers can be immediate when necessary and will not have a 24-48 hour lag * Setting up 1-800 or 1-888 number standards and procedures for monitoring responses for response time and technical accuracy * Quality of advanced information (information sent to the respondent organization prior to requesting the data) - impact changes have on participation, procedures for producing and updating advanced information, evaluation of contact and follow up procedures * Supervisor related QC activities *Edit checks performed on data at specified times throughout the field period as well as at the end of the field period Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 29 of 112

*Early in the field period QC of data that includes at a minimum running frequencies and distributions on key variables as determined by the Government and comparing to previous years data 4.0 Option Periods 2, 3, and 4 and Options A, B, C, D, E and F

Unless the Government exercises its option(s) pursuant to the Option Clause, the contract will consist only of the Base Period of the Statement of Work of the contract. Pursuant to FAR clause 52.217-8, the Government may, by unilateral contract modification, require the Contractor to perform Option Periods 1, 2, 3 and/or 4 of the Statement of Work of this contract. If the Government exercises any option, notice must be given at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of this contract, and the estimated cost (plus any fees) of the contract will be increased as set forth by the budget. Option Period 1 The contractor shall maintain all tasks and shall be repeated for the 2015 MPC (which collects data for 2013 CY HC estimates) with the sample specified below. Option Period 2 The contractor shall maintain all tasks and shall be repeated for the 2015 MPC (which collects data for 2014 CY HC estimates) with the sample specified below. Option Period 3 The contractor shall maintain all tasks and shall be repeated for the 2016 MPC (which collects data for 2015 CY HC estimates) with the sample specified below. Option Period 4 The contractor shall maintain all tasks and shall be repeated for the 2017 MPC (which collects data for 2016 CY HC estimates) with the sample specified below. Based on historical sample projections, AHRQ anticipates the eligible MPC sample for the option years not to exceed:

Estimated MPC sample sizes for option period 2, 3 and 4 - pair level
Activity Estimate for 2015 MPC, 2016 MPC, 2017& MPC (which collect data for CY 2014,CY 2015, and

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 30 of 112

CY 2016 HC estimates) Hospitals Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Long term care Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Home health 550 Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x response rate of 90%) Office Based Physicians Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x 90% response rate) Pharmacy Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x 85% response rate) 20,000 17,000 16,200 14,580 495 110 99 10,440 9,396

Hospital Identified Physicians (i.e., separately billing doctors)* Eligible sample for which permission to contact is available minus out of scope Expected completed pairs (final n x 90% response rate) 29,000 26,100

*SBD nodes are created for each separately billed doctor associated with each event identified in the hospital data

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 31 of 112

Option A: Methodological Work on Alternate Hospital Data Collection Methodology This item may be exercised at any time during the period of performance of this contract. For the purpose of this procurement the period of performance is 4 months. The Government is interested in alternative ways to subselect and prioritize this data collection. The Contractor shall review existing hospital data collection methodology and propose alternative methodologies which would support analytic goals and improve estimation. Cost implications shall also be included. Option B: Reexamination of the Office Based Provider Subsample Methodology This item may be exercised at any time during the period of performance of this contract. For the purpose of this procurement the period of performance is 4 months. The Contractor shall examine the current methodology used in office based provider subsampling and offer alternatives to that design. The alternate designs shall support analytic goals and improve estimation. Cost implications shall also be included. Option C: Alternative Methodologies for Separately Billing Doctors Data Collection This item may be exercised at any time during the period of performance of this contract. For the purpose of this procurement the period of performance is 4 months. The Contractor shall evaluate the current method of collecting separately billing doctor data and will offer alternatives to that design. The Contractor will document their findings and suggested alternative strategies in a Methodology Report. The alternate designs shall support analytic goals and improve estimation. Cost implications shall also be included. Option A, Option B, and Option C all may be exercised only once over the life of the contract and may be exercised at any time during the Base Period or any Option Period. Option D: Additional 2,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC office based doctor sample This option may be exercised in conjunction with the exercise of an option period and may only be exercised once per option period. Add an additional approximately 2,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC sample. This sample size enhancement of approximately 2,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS Medical Provider Component will follow the same data collection protocols implemented each year for the survey. The requirement of approximately 2,000 responding office based doctors will necessitate a larger initial sample to account for survey nonresponse and attrition that mirrors the response rates of the survey. Option E: Additional 4,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC office based doctor sample This option may be exercised in conjunction with the exercise of an option period and may only be exercised once per option period. Add an additional approximately 4,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC sample. This sample size enhancement of approximately 4,000 responding office based doctors Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 32 of 112

to the MEPS Medical Provider Component will follow the same data collection protocols implemented each year for the survey. The requirement of approximately 4,000 responding office based doctors will necessitate a larger initial sample to account for survey nonresponse and attrition that mirrors the response rates of the survey. Option F: Additional 6,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC office based doctor sample This option may be exercised in conjunction with the exercise of an option period and may only be exercised once per option period. Add an additional approximately 6,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS MPC sample. This sample size enhancement of approximately 6,000 responding office based doctors to the MEPS Medical Provider Component will follow the same data collection protocols implemented each year for the survey. The requirement of approximately 6,000 responding office based doctors will necessitate a larger initial sample to account for survey nonresponse and attrition that mirrors the response rates of the survey.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 33 of 112

SECTION D - PACKAGING AND MARKING All deliverables required under this contract shall be packaged, marked and shipped in accordance with Government specifications. At a minimum, all deliverables shall be marked with the Contract Number, Contractor Name and Item Number. The Contractor shall guarantee that all required materials shall be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition. Note as appropriate on the face page of each deliverable, or on the binding, (1) one volume only, or (2) volume 1 of 2, etc. SECTION E - INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE

E.1

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE a. The Contracting Officer or the duly authorized representative will perform inspection and acceptance of materials and services to be provided. For the purpose of this SECTION the Contracting Officer`s Representative is the authorized technical representative of the Contracting Officer. Inspection and acceptance will be performed at: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850

b.

c.

E.2

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) This contract incorporates the following clause by reference, with the same force and effect as if it were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make its full text available. FAR Clause No. 52.246-5 Title and Date Inspection of Services-Cost Reimbursement (April 1984)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 34 of 112

SECTION F - DELIVERIES or PERFORMANCE

F.1

PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE a. The base period of performance of this contract shall be from July 23, 2013 through November 30, 2013. b. If the Government exercises any Options pursuant to the OPTION PROVISION Article in Section H of this contract, the period of performance will be revised as follows: Option Period Option Period 1 Option Period 2 Option Period 3 Option Period 4 Option Task Option Task A Option Task B Option Task C Option Task D Option Performance Nov. 1, 2013 ญ June 30, 2015 Nov. 1, 2014 ญ June 30, 2016 Nov. 1, 2015 ญ June 30, 2017 Nov. 1, 2016 ญ June 30, 2018 Option Period 2 months (any time during contract period) 2 months (any time during contract period) 2 months (any time during contract period) 20 months ญ in conjunction with exercise of any given option. 20 months ญ in conjunction with exercise of any given option. 20 months ญ in conjunction with exercise of any given option.

Option Task E

Option Task F

F.2

DELIVERABLE SCHEDULE

The items specified for delivery below are subject to the review and approval of the Contracting Officer`s Representative (COR) before final acceptance. The contractor shall be required to make revisions deemed necessary by the COR. The deliverable schedule may not be changed without the agreement of the COR and an authorized modification completed by an AHRQ Contracting Officer (CO). Delivery dates reflect calendar time unless otherwise specified.

Unless otherwise noted under a specific task, this Deliverables Schedule applies to the base period and all options (if exercised).

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 35 of 112

The contractor shall submit the following items electronically to the COR:

Title Outline of Methodology and Survey Operations Report on data collection methodology for government sponsored large medical provider surveys of national scope Methodology and Survey Operations Report on data collection methodology for government sponsored large medical provider surveys of national scope

Base Period Date 30 Ds after effective date of contract

SOW Task 3.2

4 Ms after contract award

3.2

Option Periods 1-4

Title

Project Management Plan (bi-annual)

Management meeting agenda including reports that will be discussed/reviewed at meeting Management meeting minutes Documentation of key decisions Annual Methodology Report

Option Period 1 (2014 MPC which collects data for 2013 HC estimates) 30 Ds after effective date of contract, and then January and June each year thereafter 5 Ds before meeting

Option Period 2 (2015 MPC which collects data for 2014 HC estimates) January 2014 June 2014

Option Period 3 (2016 MPC which collects data for 2015 HC estimates) January 2015 June 2015

Option Period 4 (2017 MPC which collects data for 2016 HC estimates) January 2016 June 2016

SOW Task

3.2.1

5 Ds before meeting

5 Ds before meeting

5 Ds before meeting

3.2.6

10 Ds after meeting 5 Ds after decision 2013 data ญ June 30, 2015

10 Ds after meeting 5 Ds after decision 2014 data ญ June 30, 2016

10 Ds after meeting 5 Ds after decision 2015 data ญ June 30, 2017

10 Ds after meeting 5 Ds after decision 2016 data ญ June 30, 2018

3.2.6 3.2.6 3.2.1

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 36 of 112

Specifications for MPC sample preparation MPC training plan Plan for establishing the frame for the MPC sample, including unduplication Plan for preparing MPC files for fielding and back-linkage Plan for maintaining the frame for the MPC during fielding, including procedures for splits and merges Plan for the identification of hospital physicians, preparing the files for fielding and backlinkage Plan for data collection of hospital physicians not included in the hospital bill (include mock tables) Draft data collection instruments and respondent materials suitable for OMB clearance Final respondent materials ญ (e.g., letters, brochures) for the MPC Final MPC data collection instruments

November 15, 2013 November 30, 2013 November 15, 2013

November 15, 2014

November 15, 2015 November 15, 2016 November 30, 2015 November 30, 2016 November 15, 2015 November 15, 2016

3.3.1

November 30, 2014 November 15, 2014

3.3.6, 3.3.7 3.3.2

November 15, 2013 November 15, 2013

November 15, 2014

November 15, 2015 November 15, 2016 November 15, 2015 November 15, 2016

3.3.1, 3.3.2 3.3.1

November 15, 2014

November 15, 2013

November 15, 2014

November 15, 2015 November 15, 2016

3.3.4

November 30 2013 November 30, 2014

November 30, 2015 November 30, 2016

3.3.4, 3.3.8

8 Ms before use

8 Ms before use

8 Ms before use

8 Ms before use

3.3.5

December 15, 2013

December 15, 2014

December 15, 2015

December 15, 2016

3.3.5

December 15, 2013

December 15, 2014

December 15, 2015

December 15, 2016

3.3.5

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 37 of 112

Overall MPC data collection plan, including staffing plan, abstraction plan, quality control procedures, electronic communication and transmission arrangements, field cost and production reports (samples), response rate reports, and plan for multimode data collection (include mock tables) MPC staffing, recruitment and retention plan (include supervisors and management in plan, and plans for data collection specialists and abstractors separately) Report on MPC data collection evaluating the overall MPC data collection plan (post data collection) MPC Training Materials will include materials for data collection specialists and abstractors and will include schedule, verbatim scripts, trainer, supervisor and abstractor manuals, mock examples and home study packages

November 30, 2013

November 30, 2014

November 30, 2015 November 30, 2016

3.3

November 30, 2013

November 30, 2014

November 30, 2015 November 30, 2016

3.3.6, 3.3.7

March 15, 2014

March 15, 2015

March 15, 2016

March 15, 2017

3.3

2 Ms before use

2 Ms before use

2 Ms before use

2 Ms before use

3.3.6, 3.3.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 38 of 112

MPC Work Processes Plan will include plan for data collection specialists and abstractors and will include QC plan and procedural manual MPC cost and progress data collection reports, including a staff attrition report MPC response rate reports (pair and provider level) MPC data collection completed field period official notification with completion date and QC and final results (all provider types except separately billing doctors) MPC data collection completed field period official notification with completion date and QC and final results separately billing doctors only Data processing plan ญ MPC Draft data security plan ญ MPC

December 1, 2013

December 1, 2014

December 1, 2015

December 1, 2016

3.3

Bi-weekly for data collection progress, and monthly for cost reports while in field Bi-weekly while in field February 15, 2014

Bi-weekly for data collection progress, and monthly for cost reports while in field Bi-weekly while in field February 15, 2015

Bi-weekly for data collection progress, and monthly for cost reports while in field Bi-weekly while in field February 15, 2016

Bi-weekly for data collection progress, and monthly for cost reports while in field Bi-weekly while in field February 15, 2017

3.2.6

3.2.6

3.2.6, 3.3.8

March 15, 2014

March 15, 2015

March 15, 2016

March 15, 2017

3.2.6, 3.3.8

November 15, 2013 4 Ws after contract award, updated yearly Final data security 3 Ms after contract plan ญ MPC award, updated yearly MPC data quality November 15, control plan ญ MPC 2013 Plan for forms control 1 M before field and receipt ญ MPC period Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

November 15, 2014

November 15, 2015 November 15, 3.4 2016 4 Ws after contract 4 Ws after 4 Ws after 3.4.1 award, updated contract award, contract award, yearly updated yearly updated yearly 3 Ms after contract 3 Ms after 3 Ms after 3.4.1 award, updated contract award, contract award, yearly updated yearly updated yearly November 15, 2014 November 15, 2015 November 15, 3.3.9, 2016 3.4.8 1 M before field 1 M before field 1 M before 3.4.2 period period field period AHRQ-13-10001 Page 39 of 112

Plan for data entry ญ MPC Plan for matching MPC to HC events MPC coder training materials including a schedule, trainer, supervisor and coder manuals, mock examples and home study packages MPC Coding Plan which will include 3 major sections: 1) Sources of payment, 2) Provider (including pharmacy providers, medical providers and separately billing doctors, and 3) Conditions/diagnoses, medical procedures and supplies. This plan will include training plan, quality control specifications, work processes plan, procedural manual and describe in detail how MPC and HC coding activities will be coordinated and synonymous Matching MPC to HC events completed

November 10, 2013 December 30, 2013 2 Ms before use

November 1, 2014 May 15, 2014 2 Ms before use

November 1, 2015 May 15, 2015 2 Ms before use

November 1, 2016 May 15, 2016 2 Ms before use

3.4.3 3.4.5 3.4.4

November 10, 2013

May 15, 2014

May 15, 2015

May 15, 2016

3.4.4

February 28, 2015

February 28, 2016

January 31, 2017

January 31, 2018 3.4.6, 3.4.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 40 of 112

Creating and transferring of preimputation, post cleaning, post matching Home Health Care internal event file and documentation (will include a consolidated and unduplicated ID variable that can be used to identify all MPC and HC records for each person/provider pair) Creating and transferring of Home Health Care post matched input files ready for direct feed into the expenditure editing and imputation processing programs Creating and transferring of Home Health Care raw data, matching output and files that will feed directly into expenditure and editing processing programs at the following intervals: 10% of data collection completed, 50% of data collection completed, 75% of data collection completed and 90% data collection completed

February 14, 2015

February 14, 2016

January 15, 2017

January 15, 2018 3.4.6, 3.4.7

February 14, 2015

February 14, 2016

January 15, 2017

January 15, 2018 3.4.6, 3.4.7

Dependent on data Dependent on data Dependent on collection schedule collection schedule data collection schedule

Dependent on data collection schedule

3.4.6, 3.4.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 41 of 112

Transferring of raw December 7, 2014 unedited, unmatched Home Health Care MPC file and documentation Creating and February 28, 2015 transferring of preimputation, post cleaning, post matching Office Based Provider, Hospital Stay, Emergency Room, and Outpatient internal event files (includes HMOs) and documentation (will include a consolidated and unduplicated ID variable that can be used to identify all MPC and HC records for each person/provider pair) Creating and February 28, 2015 transferring of post matched Office Based Provider, Hospital Stay, Emergency Room, and Outpatient input files (includes HMOs) ready for direct feed into the expenditure editing and imputation processing programs

December 7, 2015

November 7, 2016

November 7, 2017

3.4.6, 3.4.7

February 28, 2016

January 31, 2017

January 31, 2018

3.4.6, 3.4.7

February 28, 2016

January 31, 2017

January 31, 2018

3.4.6, 3.4.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 42 of 112

Creating and transferring of Office Based Provider, Hospital Stay, Emergency Room, and Outpatient input files (includes HMOs) raw data, matching output and files that will feed directly into expenditure and editing processing programs at the following intervals: 10% of data collection completed, 50% of data collection completed, 75% of data collection completed and 90% data collection completed Transferring of raw unedited, unmatched Office Based Provider, Hospital Stay, Emergency Room, and Outpatient MPC files (includes HMO data) and documentation Creating and transferring of preimputation, post cleaning, post matching Separately Billing Doctors internal event file and documentation

Dependent on data Dependent on data Dependent on collection schedule collection schedule data collection schedule

Dependent on data collection schedule

3.4.6, 3.4.7

December 7, 2014

December 7, 2015

November 7, 2016

November 7, 2017

3.4.6, 3.4.7

March 15, 2015

March 15, 2016

February 15, 2017

February 15, 2018

3.4.6, 3.4.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 43 of 112

Creating and transferring of post matched Separately Billing Doctors input file ready for direct feed into the expenditure editing and imputation processing programs (will include a consolidated and unduplicated ID variable that can be used to identify all MPC and HC records for each person/provider pair) Creating and transferring of Separately Billing Doctors raw data, matching output and files that will feed directly into expenditure and editing processing programs at the following intervals: 10% of data collection completed, 50% of data collection completed, 75% of data collection completed and 90% data collection completed Transferring of raw unedited, unmatched Separately Billing Doctors MPC file and documentation

March 15, 2015

March 15, 2016

February 15, 2017

February 15, 2018

3.4.6, 3.4.7

Dependent on data Dependent on data Dependent on collection schedule collection schedule data collection schedule

Dependent on data collection schedule

3.4.6, 3.4.7

February 28, 2015

February 28, 2016

January 31, 2017

January 31, 2018

3.4.6, 3.4.7

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 44 of 112

Creating and transferring of post basic and consistency edited Prescribed Medicines MPC event file and documentation (includes HMO data) Transferring of raw Prescribed Medicines file and documentation (includes HMO data) Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts (SF ญ 294) Summary Subcontractor Report (SF ญ 295)

December 30, 2014

December 30, 2015

November 30, 2016 November 30, 2017

3.4.6.1, 3.4.7

December 15, 2014

December 15, 2015

November 15, 2016 November 15, 2017

3.4.6.1, 3.4.7

October 30 (annually) (1 original + 2 copies to CO) October 30 (annually) 1 copy to Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, DHHS

October 30 (annually) (1 original + 2 copies to CO) October 30 (annually) 1 copy to Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, DHHS

October 30 (annually) (1 original + 2 copies to CO) October 30 (annually) 1 copy to Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, DHHS

October 30 (annually) (1 original + 2 copies to CO) October 30 (annually) 1 copy to Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, DHHS

The Contracting Officer shall receive one copy of each progress report, annual report and final report/ final deliverable. The Contracting Officer shall also receive one copy of the manuscript, if required. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ATTN: Contracting Officer Contracts Management / OPART 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850

F.3

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 45 of 112

This contract incorporates the following clause by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSE: 52.242-15, Stop Work Order (AUG 1989) with Alternate I (APRIL 1984).

SECTION G - CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 46 of 112

G.1

KEY PERSONNEL, HHSAR 352.242-70 (January 2006) Pursuant to the Key Personnel clause incorporated in Section I of this contract, the following individual(s) is/are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder: NAME (To Be Determined) The clause cited above contains a requirement for review and approval by the Contracting Officer of written requests for a change of Key Personnel reasonably in advance of diverting any of these individuals from this contract. Receipt of written requests at least 30 days prior to a proposed change is considered reasonable. TITLE

G.2

CONTRACTING OFFICER'S REPRESENTATIVE The following Contracting Officer`s Representative will represent the Government for the purpose of this contract: (TO BE COMPLETED AT TIME OF CONTRACT AWARD) The Contracting Officer`s Representative is responsible for: (1) monitoring the contractor's technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the contracting officer changes in requirements; (2) interpreting the statement of work and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required; (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this contract; and (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance. The Government may unilaterally change its Contracting Officer`s Representative designation.

G.3

CONTRACTING OFFICER The Contracting Officer is the only person with authority to act as an agent of the Government under this contract. Only the Contracting Officer has authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes in the statement of work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the contractor of any costs incurred during the performance of this contract; or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this contract.

G.4

INVOICE SUBMISSION ญ Cost Reimbursement

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 47 of 112

a.

INVOICE SUBMISSION

The following directions for the submission of invoices must be followed to meet the requirements of a "proper" payment request pursuant to FAR 32.9, and must be in accordance with the General Provisions clause 52.232-25 Prompt Payment (OCT 2008). Invoices/financing requests shall be submitted in an original and three copies to: Contracting Officer Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Division of Contracts Management 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850 b. INFORMATION ON INVOICES

(1)

The Contractor is REQUIRED to include the following minimum information on invoices: (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) Contractor`s name and invoice date; Contract Number; Description and price of services actually rendered; Other substantiating documentation or information as required by the contract; Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and complete mailing address or responsible official to whom payment is to be sent; and The Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number.

(2)

The Contractor shall furnish the following minimum information in support of costs submitted: (a) Direct Labor ญ include all persons, listing the person`s name, title, number of hours or days worked, hourly rate (unburdened), the total cost per person and a total amount of this category. Fringe Costs - show rate, base and total amount as well as verification/allowability or rate changes (when applicable); Overhead or Indirect Costs - show rate, base and total amount as well as verification/allowability or rate changes (when applicable); Consultants - include the name, number of days or hours worked, a total amount per consultant and a total amount for this category; Travel - include for each airplane or train trip taken the name of the traveler, date of travel, destination, the transportation costs including ground transportation, shown separately, and per diem costs. Other travel costs shall also be listed. A total amount for this category shall be provided;

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 48 of 112

(f)

Subcontractors - include for each subcontractor, the same data that is being provided for the prime contractor. A total number for this category shall be provided. Data Processing - include all non-labor costs, i.e., computer time, equipment purchase, lease or rental, data tapes, etc. A total amount for this category shall be provided. Other - include a listing of all other direct charges to the contract, i.e., office supplies, telephone, equipment rental, duplication, etc. Equipment Cost - itemize and identify separately from material costs including reference to approval in all cases; G&A - show rate, base and total as well as verification/allowability of rate changes (when applicable); Fee - show rate, base and total and; Current amount billed by individual cost element and total dollar amount and cumulative amount billed by individual cost element and total dollar amount.

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

(k) (l)

(3)

Payment shall be made by: Program Support Center Twinbrook Place DFO Accounting Operations, Suite 200 12501 Ardennes Avenue Rockville, Maryland 20857 Telephone Number (301) 443-3020

G.5

INDIRECT COST RATES and FEE In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Clause 52.216-7(d)(2), Allowable Cost and Payment, incorporated by reference in this contract, in Part II, Section I, the primary contact point responsible for negotiating provisional and/or final indirect cost rates is the cognizant contracting official as set forth in FAR Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates. Reimbursement will be limited to the rates and time periods covered by the negotiated agreements. The rates, if negotiated, are hereby incorporated without further action of the Contracting Officer.

G.6

ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 49 of 112

Pursuant to FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer - Central Contractor Registration (OCT 2003), the Contractor shall designate a financial institution for receipt of electronic funds transfer payments. This designation shall be submitted, in writing, to the finance office designated in the contract. G.7 POST AWARD EVALUATION OF CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE Interim and final evaluations of Contractor performance will be prepared on this contract in accordance with FAR Subpart 42.15. The final performance evaluation will be prepared at the time of completion of work. In addition to the final evaluation, interim evaluation(s) will be prepared annually. Interim and final evaluations will be provided to the Contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. The Contractor will be permitted thirty days to review the document and to submit additional information or a rebutting statement. If agreement cannot be reached between the parties, the matter will be referred to an individual one level above the Contracting Officer, whose decision will be final. Copies of the evaluations, Contractor responses, and review comments, if any, will be retained as part of the contract file, and may be used to support future award decisions. Contractors may access evaluations through a secure Web site for review and comment at the following address: https://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil G.8 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY If this RFP will result in the acquisition or use of Government Property provided by the contracting agency or if the Contracting Officer authorizes in the preaward negotiation process, the acquisition of property (other than real property), the HHS Publication, entitled, HHS Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property shall apply. Please note that the contractor shall provide ALL property required to perform all requirements under the contract. Only in limited circumstances shall property be approved. Refer to FAR 45.102 for additional information.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 50 of 112

SECTION H ญ SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H.1 RELEASE AND USE AND COPYRIGHT OF DATA FIRST PRODUCED FROM WORK PERFORMED UNDER THIS CONTRACT (a) Release and Use ญ Data first produced in the performance of the Contract. As permitted in FAR 52.227-17, the provisions of this Section H.1 shall apply to any release or use of data first produced in the performance of the Contract and any analysis, tools, methodologies, or recorded product based on such data. (b) Release and Use ญ Requirements related to confidentiality and quality. To ensure public trust in the confidentiality protections afforded participants in Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)-supported research, AHRQ requires and monitors compliance by its contractors with section 934(c) of the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act) (42 U.S.C. 299c-3(c)), which states in part that No information, if the establishment or person supplying the information or described in it is identifiable, obtained in the course of activities undertaken or supported under this title, may be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was supplied unless such establishment or person has consented...to its use for such other purpose. Such information may not be published or released in other form if the person who supplied the information or who is described in it is identifiable unless such person has consented...to its publication or release in other form. In addition to this requirement, section 933(b)(1) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 299c-2(b)(1)) requires AHRQ to assure that statistics and analyses developed with Agency support are of high quality, comprehensive, timely, and adequately analyzed. Accordingly -(1) prior to the release or use of data based upon work performed under this Contract, the Contractor agrees to consult with the Contracting Officer`s Representative and Contract Officers regarding the proposed release or use. The Contractor will in good faith consider, discuss, and respond to any comments or suggested modifications that are provided by AHRQ within two months of receiving the proposed release or use. The purpose of such consultation is to assure that: (A) identifiable information is being used exclusively for the purpose(s) for which it was supplied or appropriate consents have been obtained; (B) the confidentiality promised to individuals and establishments supplying identifiable information or described in it is not violated; and (C) the quality of statistical and analytical work meets the statutory standards cited above. (2) The Contractor must satisfy conditions (1)(A) and (1)(B). At the conclusion of any consultation required by paragraph (b)(1) above, if AHRQ and the Contractor cannot agree that a proposed use or release satisfies condition (1)(C) above:

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 51 of 112

(A) the research professional at the Contractor responsible for the quality of the Contract work will, in advance of any release or use of such data, certify in a letter to the Contracting Officer what differences of opinion cannot be resolved regarding the statutory standards referenced in condition (1)(C) and the basis for Contractor assertions that these standards have been met; and (B) the Contractor must print prominently on the release or other product, or on any portion that is released, or state prior to any oral presentation or release of such material, the following disclaimer: THIS PRESENTATION/ PUBLICATION/OR OTHER PRODUCT IS DERIVED FROM WORK SUPPORTED UNDER A CONTRACT WITH THE AGENCY FOR HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY (AHRQ) CONTRACT# . HOWEVER, THIS PRESENTATION/ PUBLICATION/OR OTHER PRODUCT HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED BY THE AGENCY. (c) Required Statement Regarding Protected Information. On all written material or other recorded products, or preceding any presentation or other oral disclosure, release or use of material based on identifiable information obtained in the course of work performed under this contract, the Contractor shall make the following statement: IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION ON WHICH THIS REPORT, PRESENTATION, OR OTHER FORM OF DISCLOSURE IS BASED IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL LAW, SECTION 934(c) OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT, 42 U.S.C. 299c-3(c). NO IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION ABOUT ANY INDIVIDUALS OR ENTITIES SUPPLYING THE INFORMATION OR DESCRIBED IN IT MAY BE KNOWINGLY USED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR PRIOR CONSENT. ANY CONFIDENTIAL IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT OR PRESENTATION THAT IS KNOWINGLY DISCLOSED IS DISCLOSED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE FOR WHICH IT WAS PROVIDED. (d) Copyright ญ Data first produced in the performance of the Contract. Subject to the terms of this Section regarding release and use of data, AHRQ, through its Contracting Officer, will grant permission under FAR 52.227-17(c)(1)(i) to the Contractor to establish claim to copyright subsisting in scientific and technical articles based on or containing data first produced in the performance of this contract that are submitted for publication in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings or similar works. When claim to copyright is made, the Contractor shall affix the applicable copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including contract number) to the data when such data are delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. In such circumstances, the Contractor hereby agrees to grant to AHRQ, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license for all such data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of AHRQ. A description of this license will be incorporated into the copyright notices required above.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 52 of 112

(e) Subcontracts. Whenever data, analyses, or other recorded products are to be developed by a subcontractor under this Contract, the Contractor must include the terms of H.1 in the subcontract, without substantive alteration, with a provision that the subcontractor may not further assign to another party any of its obligations to the Contractor. No clause may be included to diminish the Government`s stated requirements or rights regarding release or use of products or materials based on data derived from work performed under this contract. H.2 LACK OF COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR RELEASE OR USE

Failure to submit materials for statutorily mandated confidentiality and statistical and analytic quality reviews as required by Section H.1 of this contract will be viewed as a material violation and breach of the terms of this contract, as the requirements of this provision are necessary for AHRQ to carry out its statutory obligations and responsibilities. Records of the Contractor's performance, including the Contractor's performance pertaining to this Contract, will be maintained in AHRQ's Contracts Management Office and will be considered as an element of past performance which is part of all subsequent competitive contract proposal reviews. H.3 SUBCONTRACTS

The contractor must include in any subcontracts executed or used to provide the support specified in this contract all terms and conditions of this contract, especially Section H. These requirements are to be included without substantive alteration, and no clause may be included to diminish these requirements. Award of any subcontract is subject to the written approval of the Contracting Officer upon review of the supporting documentation as required by FAR Clause 52.215-12, Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data, of the General Clauses incorporated into this contract. A copy of the signed subcontract shall be provided to the Contracting Officer. H.4 LATE PAYMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENT

Late payment of debts owed the Government by the Contractor, arising from whatever cause, under this contract/order shall bear interest at a rate or rates to be established in accordance with the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual. For purposes of this provision, late payments are defined as payments received by the Government more than 30 days after the Contractor has been notified in writing by the Contracting Officer of: a. b. c. The basis of indebtedness. The amount due. The fact that interest will be applied if payment is not received within 30 days from the date of mailing of the notice. The approximate interest rate that will be charged.

d.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 53 of 112

H.5

SALARY RATE LIMITATION

(a) Pursuant to the current and applicable prior HHS appropriations acts, the Contractor shall not use contract funds to pay the direct salary of an individual at a rate in excess of the federal Executive Schedule Level I* in effect on the date an expense is incurred. *(Please note: The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012, which restricts the amount of direct salary, was revised from Executive Level I to Executive Level II.) (b) For purposes of the salary rate limitation, the terms direct salary,`` salary,`` and institutional base salary`` have the same meaning and are collectively referred to as direct salary`` in this clause. An individual`s direct salary is the annual compensation that the Contractor pays for an individual`s direct effort (costs) under the contract. Direct salary excludes any income that an individual may be permitted to earn outside of duties to the Contractor. Direct salary also excludes fringe benefits, overhead, and general and administrative expenses (also referred to as indirect costs or facilities and administrative [F&A] costs). (NOTE: The salary rate limitation does not restrict the salary that an organization may pay an individual working under an HHS contract or order; it merely limits the portion of that salary that may be paid with federal funds.) (c) The salary rate limitation also applies to individuals under subcontracts. If this is a multipleyear contract or order, it may be subject to unilateral modification by the Contracting Officer to ensure that an individual is not paid at a rate that exceeds the salary rate limitation provision established in the HHS appropriations act in effect when the expense is incurred regardless of the rate initially used to establish contract or order funding. (d) See the salaries and wages pay tables on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management website for federal Executive Schedule salary levels that apply to the current and prior periods. H.6 PERSONNEL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS BACKGROUND The Office of Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget, Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), requires that all DHHS employees and contractor employees (including subcontractors) who will be working in a DHHS-owned or leased space and/or who will have access to DHHS equipment, and non-public privileged, proprietary, or trade secret information, undergo a background investigation. GENERAL Notwithstanding other submission requirements stated elsewhere in this contract, the contractor shall appoint and identify a Contractor Security Representative and submit the following information for each employee to the Contracting Officer within thirty (30) calendar days after contract award. DHHS ID Badge Request (HHS-745) E-QIP Initiation Request Form

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 54 of 112

Within thirty (30) days after contract award each employee will be required to have electronic fingerprinting performed ญญ Fingerprinting services are available by appointment only through the Program Support Staff (PSC). Upon receipt of the ID Badge Request Form and E-QIP Initiation Form, a security specialist from PSC will email the contractor with instructions on completing the on-line background investigation questionnaire and making arrangements for the contractor to complete the electronic fingerprints at the Parklawn Building. H.7 ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY,HHSAR 352.239-73(b), (JANUARY 2010)

(a) Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, all electronic and information technology (EIT) products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used under this contract/order must comply with the Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Provisions set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as the Access Board) in 36 CFR Part 1194. Information about Section 508 is available at http://www.section508.gov/. The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/standards.htm. (b) The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this contract/order are identified in the Statement of Work/Specification/Performance Work Statement. The Contractor must provide a written Section 508 conformance certification due at the end of each contract/order exceeding $150,000 when the contract/order duration is one year or less. If it is determined by the Government that EIT products and services provided by the Contractor do not conform to the described accessibility standards in the Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance specified in the Contractor`s Product Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor at its own expense. (c) In the event of a modification(s) to this contract/order, which adds new EIT products or services or revises the type of, or specifications for, products or services the Contractor is to provide, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, the Contracting Officer may require that the contractor submit a completed HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template to assist the Government in determining that the EIT products or services support Section 508 accessibility standards. Instructions for documenting accessibility via the HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability website (http://www.hhs.gov/od/). (d) Prior to the Contracting Officer exercising an option for a subsequent performance period/additional quantity or adding funding for a subsequent performance period under this contract, as applicable, the Contractor must provide a Section 508 Annual Report to the Contracting Officer and Contracting Officer Representative. Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer in writing, the Contractor shall provide the cited report in accordance with the following schedule. Instructions for completing the report are available in the Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability website under the heading Vendor Information and Documents. The Contractor`s failure to submit a timely and properly completed report may jeopardize the Contracting Officer`s exercising an option or adding funding, as applicable.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 55 of 112

Schedule for Contractor Submission of Section 508 Annual Report (To be completed by the Contracting Officer at time of contract award.) H.8 AHRQ Publishing and Communications Guidelines

All publications and communications resulting from this contract shall comply with the AHRQ publications and communications guidelines. Products will be reviewed to ensure compliance with these guidelines. Deliverables that are non-compliant are not acceptable. The AHRQ Publishing and communication Style Guidelines can be found at http://www.ahrq.gov/news/pubcomguide/. This will assist the contractor in this effort by coordinating the work with AHRQ Office of communications and Knowledge Transfer (OCKT). The Contractor must provide a written request for copyright assertion to the Contracting Officer.

H.9

SECURITY AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS

1. Adherence to Security and Privacy Policy. The Contractor shall comply with all Federal and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) security and privacy guidelines in effect at the time of the award of this contract. A list of applicable United States (U.S.) laws, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requirements, HHS policies, standards and guidance, and Federal Government Computer Security guidelines can be located at http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/securityprivacy/index.html. The Contractor shall perform periodic reviews to ensure compliance with all information security and privacy requirements. The Contractor shall make all system information and documentation produced in support of the Contract available to the agency and agency auditors upon request. 2. Perimeter Defense and Notification. The Contractor shall ensure that the system and the information it contains are secured using appropriate perimeter defense technologies and that these technologies are monitored for anomalous traffic behavior. The Contractor shall immediately report any unauthorized system access to the agency Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and/or System Owner. 3. Protection of Sensitive Information. The Contractor shall ensure that sensitive information is protected by information security and privacy controls commensurate with the risk associated with the potential loss or compromise of this information. For purposes of this contract, information is sensitive if the FIPS 199 Confidentiality or Integrity security objective is rated Moderate or High by the OPDIV CIO or CISO, as appropriate. Personally identifiable information (PII) is a subset of sensitive information and is defined as data that can potentially be used to identify, locate, or contact an individual, or potentially reveal the activities, characteristics, or other details about a person.1 PII shall receive a level of protection commensurate with the risk associated with the loss or compromise of sensitive information. 4. Sensitive Information on Public Systems. The Contractor shall ensure that sensitive information is not stored, processed or transmitted on a publicly-available system (via the

1

HHS Rules of Behavior, August 26, 2010.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 56 of 112

Internet) without the appropriate controls in place and specific authorization from the AHRQ Chief Information Officer (CIO). 5. Privacy Requirements. The Contractor shall conduct and maintain a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) as defined by Section 208 of the E-Government Act of 2002 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause 52-239-1, and required by HHS policy. The PIA shall be completed in accordance with HHS PIA guidance (http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/securityprivacy/privacyresources/pias.html). Periodic reviews shall be conducted to determine if a major change to the system has occurred, and if a PIA update is subsequently required. If it is determined that an update is necessary, the Contractor shall make the necessary changes to the PIA. The Contractor shall abide by all requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974 and FAR Clause 52-239-1. Pursuant to those requirements, the Contractor shall create and publish a System of Records Notice (SORN) in the Federal Register when required and shall publish an updated SORN following a major change to the system, as directed by OMB Memorandum (M) 03-22, OMB Guidance for Implementing the Privacy Provisions of the EGovernment Act of 2002, or subsequent replacement guidance. 6. Security Authorization. The Contractor shall assess the security control effectiveness in conformance with the standards set forth by the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-37 Rev. 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle Approach, prior to the system becoming operational. This activity shall be performed in conjunction with the initial development of the system, updated when a major change occurs to the system, and renewed no less than every three years. All system security authorization packages shall be compliant with all Public Law (PL)-107-347, OMB mandates, FIPS, and additional applicable NIST guidance. This guidance includes, but is not limited to FIPS 199, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-18 Rev. 1, NIST SP 800-30, NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1, NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3, NIST SP 800-53A Rev. 1, and NIST SP 800-60 Rev. 1. All NIST and FIPS documentation can be found at http://csrc.nist.gov/. HHS has created a C&A checklist to facilitate compliance with the OMB-mandated C&A process. The HHS C&A Checklist in the IS2P Handbook: Section 3, HHS Minimum Requirements for Security Authorization (formerly C&A) Packages) will be provided upon contract initiation. Prior to becoming operational, all systems must receive a signed Authorization to Operate (ATO) issued by the agency Authorizing Official. No system will be permitted into the production environment without a valid, signed ATO. 7. FISMA Continuous Monitoring. The Contractor shall perform the following: a. Asset Management: The contractor shall use any available automated tools to provide an inventory of all information technology (IT) assets, (computers, servers, routers, etc...) that are processing government owned information/data. Monthly or upon request of the government, a report of this inventory information shall be produced and transmitted in a secure manner. The contractor shall be capable of providing detailed IT asset inventory information, to include IP address, machine name, operating system level, and security patch level. If the contractor is currently not capable of providing an

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 57 of 112

b.

c.

d.

e.

inventory of all IT assets using automated tools, the contractor shall provide the percentage of IT assets that this inventory information can currently be provided for using automated tools. The contractor shall work towards ultimately maintaining a capability to provide an inventory of 100% of its IT assets using automated tools. Configuration Management: The contractor shall use available automated tools to provide visibility into the security configuration compliance status of all information technology (IT) assets, (computers, servers, routers, etc...) that are processing government owned information/data. Compliance will be measured using IT asset and system security configuration guidance provided by the government, for a number of specific IT assets. The automated tools will compare the installed configuration to the government specific security configuration guidance. Monthly or upon request of the government, a report of this IT asset security configuration information shall be produced and transmitted in a secure manner. If the contractor is currently not capable of providing security configuration compliance details for the specified IT assets using automated tools, the contractor shall provide the percentage of IT assets that this security configuration compliance information can currently be provided for using automated tools. The contractor shall work towards ultimately maintaining a capability to provide security configuration compliance information for 100% of IT assets using automated tools. Vulnerability Management: The contractor shall use automated tools to detect any security vulnerabilities in all information technology (IT) assets, (computers, servers, routers, etc...) that are processing government owned information/data. Monthly or upon request of the government, a report of this IT asset security vulnerability information shall be produced and transmitted in a secure manner. If the contractor is currently not capable of providing security vulnerability scanning results for IT assets using automated tools, the contractor shall provide the percentage of IT assets that this security vulnerability scanning information can currently be provided for using automated tools. The contractor shall work towards ultimately maintaining a capability to provide security vulnerability scanning information for 100% of IT assets using automated tools. Data Protection: Current federal government security guidance requires that sensitive government information that is stored on laptops and other portable computing devices shall be encrypted using Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)-140-2 validated encryption. Upon request by the government, the contractor shall provide the percentage of portable IT assets that are equipped with FIPS 140-2 validated encryption, to encrypt all sensitive government information. Remote Access: Current federal government security guidance requires that two factor authentication be utilized when remotely accessing sensitive government owned information/data on IT systems (both government owned, and contractor owned systems). Additional federal government security guidance when remotely accessing government owned information/data include the following: connections shall utilize 1402 validated encryption; connections shall be capable of assessing and correcting system configurations upon connection; connections shall be capable of scanning for viruses and malware upon connection; connections shall prohibit split tunneling; and connections shall require timeout after 15 minutes of inactivity. Upon request by the government (each quarter), the contractor shall provide the following information about the contractor's remote access solutions to government owned sensitive information/data: percentage of current connections that allow connection using only a password; percentage of connections that require the use of a government provided personal identity verification (PIV) card as part of a two factor solution; percentage of

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 58 of 112

f.

connections that require the use of other two factor authentication solutions; percentage of connections that utilize FIPS 140-2 encryption; percentage of connections that assess and correct system configurations upon connection; percentage of connections that scan for viruses and malware upon connection; percentage of connections that prohibit split tunneling; and percentage of connections that require timeout after 15 minutes of inactivity Incident Management: Upon direction from the government, the contractor shall install critical security patches or take other security remediation action as directed to federal agencies by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to resolve weaknesses in systems processing government owned information/data. The contractor shall report status and when the directed action has been completed. It is anticipated that this type of urgent security remediation action may be necessary at least 1-2 times per month.

8. Annual Requirements. The Contractor shall be responsible for meeting ongoing information security and privacy system requirements. These include, but are not limited to, performing annual system testing, completing an annual system self-assessment, facilitating a contingency plan test, and supporting quarterly and annual AHRQ FISMA reporting. Additionally, AHRQ reserves the right to test or review the system security and privacy controls at any time. 9. Security and Privacy Training. All Contractors shall receive general awareness training and role-based training, commensurate with the responsibilities required to perform the work articulated in the terms and conditions of the Contract. The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring each contractor employee has completed the AHRQ Security Awareness Training as required by the agency prior to performing any contract work or accessing any system, and on an annual basis thereafter, throughout the period of performance of the contract. The Contractor shall maintain a list of all individuals who have completed this training and shall submit this list to the Contracting Officer Representative upon request. As a part of this training, the Contractor shall ensure that all staff read, agree to, and sign the HHS Rules of Behavior (http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/policy/hhs-ocio-2010-0002.001s_hhs_rules_of_behavior.html). The Contractor shall ensure that all contractors with significant security responsibilities, as defined by HHS, receive commensurate role-based training. As stated in the HHS Cybersecurity Program Memorandum, Role-Based Training (RBT) of Personnel with Significant Security Responsibilities, significant security responsibilities are defined as the responsibilities associated with a given role or position, which, upon execution, could have the potential to adversely impact the security posture of one or more HHS systems.2 The Contractor shall maintain a list of all individuals that possess significant security responsibilities and the subsequent role-based training courses completed, and shall submit this list to the Contracting Officer Representative upon request. 10. Electronic Communication. All Contractor staff that have access to and use of HHS electronic mail (e-mail) must identify themselves as contractors on all outgoing e-mail messages, including those sent in reply or forwarded to another user. The Contractor shall ensure all contractor staff embed an e-mail signature ("AutoSignature") or an electronic
2

HHS Memorandum, Role-Based Training (RBT) of Personnel with Significant Security Responsibilities , October 3, 2007.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 59 of 112

business card ("V-card") within each electronic correspondence to automatically display "Contractor" in the signature. 11. Clearances. The Contractor shall ensure all staff have the required level of security clearance commensurate with the sensitivity of the information being stored, processed, transmitted or otherwise handled by the System or required to perform the work stipulated by the contract. At the minimum, all Contractor staff shall be subjected to a Public Trust background check and be granted a Public Trust clearance before access to the System or other HHS resources is granted. 12. Non-Disclosure. The Contractor shall not release, publish, or disclose agency information to unauthorized personnel, and shall protect such information in accordance with the provisions of the following laws and any other pertinent laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of sensitive information: -18 U.S.C. 641 (Criminal Code: Public Money, Property or Records) -18 U.S.C. 1905 (Criminal Code: Disclosure of Confidential Information) - PL 96-511 (Paperwork Reduction Act) The Contractor shall ensure that each contractor employee who may have access to agency information under this contract shall complete and sign the Commitment to Protect NonPublic Information - Contractor Agreement (Non-Disclosure Agreement). A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure Agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer`s Representative (COR prior to performing any work under the contract. 13. Encryption. (HHSAR 352.239-70) The Contractor shall: a. Use FIPS 140-2 (as amended) compliant encryption3 to protect all instances of HHS sensitive information during storage and transmission. b. Verify that the selected encryption product has been validated under the Cryptographic Module Validation Program (http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/) to confirm compliance with FIPS 140-2 (as amended). The Contractor shall provide a written copy of the validation documentation to both the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer`s Representative. c. Use the Key Management Key on the HHS personal identification verification (PIV) card; or alternatively, the Contractor shall establish and use a key recovery mechanism to ensure the ability for authorized personnel to decrypt and recover all encrypted information. d. Securely generate and manage encryption keys to prevent unauthorized decryption of information, in accordance with FIPS 140-2 (as amended). e. Ensure that this standard is incorporated into the Contractor`s property management/control system; or establish a procedure to account for all laptop

3 The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum (M) 07-16, Safeguarding Against and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information (released May 22, 2007) requires the use of FIPS 140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Module, compliant encryption technologies on laptop computers and all other mobile computers and devices containing sensitive information. The HHS memorandum Mandatory Protection of Sensitive Information on Computers, Mobile Devices, and Portable Media (henceforth called the Protection of Sensitive Information Memo), signed by the HHS Chief of Staff on December 23, 2008, directs expansion of the current HHS Encryption Standard for Mobile Devices and Portable Media to all government and non -government-furnished desktops used on behalf of the government that store sensitive information.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 60 of 112

f.

computers, desktop computers, and other mobile devices and portable media that store or process sensitive HHS information. Ensure that all of its employees, subcontractors (at all tiers), and employees of each subcontractor, who perform work under this contract/subcontract, comply with the above requirements. Standard Security Configurations. (HHSAR 352.239-70) The AHRQ standard security configurations shall be provided to the Contractor at the time of contract initiation and upon completion of the required Non-Disclosure Agreements. The contractor shall:

14.

a. Configure contractor computers containing HHS data shall with the applicable Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) (http://nvd.nist.gov/fdcc/index.cfm), United States Government Configuration Baseline (USGCB) (http://usgcb.nist.gov/), HHS Minimum Configuration Baseline (http://intranet.hhs.gov/it/cybersecurity/docs/policies_guides/MSCS/min_security_config_ standards_v4_20090804.doc), and shall have and maintain the latest operating system patch level and anti-virus software level. The installation, operation, maintenance, update, and/or patching of software shall not alter the approved HHS FDCC standards, USGCB configurations, or the HHS Minimum Security Configurations. b. Apply approved security configurations to information technology that is used to process information on behalf of HHS and/or AHRQ. Such approved security configurations shall be identified jointly by the AHRQ Contracting Officer`s Representative (COR) and AHRQ Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Approved security configurations include, but are not limited to, those published by HHS, by AHRQ, and by NIST at http://checklist.nist.gov. AHRQ may have security configurations that are more stringent than the minimum baseline set by the Department or NIST. When incorporating such security configuration requirements in solicitations and contracts, the AHRQ CISO shall be consulted to determine the appropriate configuration reference for a particular system or services acquisition. c. Ensure applications operated on behalf of HHS or AHRQ are fully functional and operate correctly on systems configured in accordance with the above configuration requirements. The Contractor shall use Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)validated tools with FDCC Scanner capability to ensure its products operate correctly with FDCC or USGCB configurations and do not alter FDCC or USGCB settings.4 The Contractor shall test applicable product versions with all relevant and current updates and patches installed. The contractor shall ensure currently supported versions of information technology (IT) products meet the latest FDCC or USGCB major version and subsequent major versions. d. Ensure applications designed for end users run in the standard user context without requiring elevated administrative privileges. e. Ensure hardware and software installation, operation, maintenance, update, and patching will not alter the configuration settings or requirements specified above.
FDCC is applicable to all computing systems using Windows XPTM and Windows VistaTM, including desktops and laptops--regardless of function--but not including servers. The Department has developed an HHS version of FDCC (henceforth HHS FDCC) for Windows XPTM and VistaTM to accommodate business and operational needs in the HHS environment. These settings are available at
4

http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/guidance.html.

When there is a compelling business or operational need to deviate from the FDCC, AHRQ may use the HHS FDCC settings instead of the government-wide FDCC settings. USGCB replaced FDCC (Windows XP and older) for Microsoft Windows 7TM Operating Systems and components. USGCB configuration standards are available at http://usgcb.nist.gov/usgcb_content.html.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 61 of 112

f.

Ensure Federal Information Processing Standard 201 (FIPS-201) compliant, Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12) card readers are: (a) be included with the purchase of servers, desktops, and laptops; and (b) comply with FAR Subpart 4.13, Personal Identity Verification. g. Ensure all its subcontractors which perform work under this contract (at all tiers) comply with the above requirements. 15. Maintenance. The Contractor shall ensure that the system, once operational, is properly maintained and monitored, to include immediate response to critical security patches, routine maintenance windows to allow for system updates, and compliance with a defined configuration management process. All patches and system updates shall be properly tested in a development environment before being implemented in the production environment.

References 1. 2. 3. 4. Policy for Department-wide Information Security: http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/policy/2007-0002.html HHS IRM Information Security Program Policy: http://www.hhs.gov/ocio/policy/2004-0002.001.html HHS Personnel Security/Suitability Handbook: http://www.hhs.gov/ohr/manual/pssh.pdf NIST SP 800-18, Rev. 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems : http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-18-Rev1/sp800-18-Rev1-final.pdf 5. NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-37-rev1/sp800-37-rev1-final.pdf 6. NIST SP 800-53, Rev.3, Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-53-Rev3/sp800-53-rev3-final_updatederrata_05-01-2010.pdf 7. NIST SP 800-60 Rev. 1, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories, Volume I: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-60-rev1/SP800-60_Vol1Rev1.pdf 8. NIST SP 800-60 Rev. 1, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories, Volume II: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-60-rev1/SP800-60_Vol2Rev1.pdf 9. NIST SP 800-64 Rev. 2, Security Considerations in the System Development Life Cycle: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-64-Rev2/SP800-64-Revision2.pdf 10. FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems : http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips199/FIPS-PUB-199-final.pdf 11. FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips200/FIPS-200-final-march.pdf Cryptographic Module Validation Program: http://csrc.nist.gov/cryptval/

H.10

SUBCONTRACTING PROVISIONS

a. Small Business Subcontracting Plan 1. The Small Business Subcontracting Plan, dated (To be Included at Award) is attached hereto and made a part of this contract. 2. The failure of any Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with FAR Clause 52.219-8, entitled "Utilization of Small Business Concerns" incorporated in this contract and the attached Subcontracting Plan, will be a material breach of such contract or subcontract and subject to the remedies reserved to the

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 62 of 112

Government under FAR Clause 52.219-16 entitled, "Liquidated DamagesSubcontracting Plan." b. Subcontracting Reports The Contractor shall submit the following Subcontracting reports electronically via the "electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at http://www.esrs.gov . 1. Individual Subcontract Reports (ISR) Regardless of the effective date of this contract, the Report shall be due on the following dates for the entire life of this contract: April 30th October 30th Expiration Date of Contract 2. Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) Regardless of the effective date of this contract, the Summary Subcontract Report shall be submitted annually on the following date for the entire life of this contract: October 30th For both the Individual and Summary Subcontract Reports, the Contract Specialist shall be included as a contact for notification purposes at the following e-mail address: Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov Robert Zuhlke, Contract Specialist

H.11

OPTIONS

Unless the Government exercises its option pursuant to the Option Clause set forth in SECTION I, the contract will consist only of the Base Requirement of the Statement of Work as defined in Sections B, C and F of the contract. Pursuant to the Option Clause set forth in SECTION I of this contract, the Government may, by unilateral contract modification, require the Contractor to perform additional options set forth in the Statement of Work and also defined in Section F of the contract. If the Government exercises this option, notice must be given at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of this contract, and the contract will be revised as set forth in SECTION B.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 63 of 112

H.12 FULL EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, HHSAR 352.234-3 (October 2008) a. The Contractor shall use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) that has been validated and accepted by the Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA) as being compliant with the guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard-748 (current version at the time of award) to manage this contract. If the Contractor's current EVMS has not been validated and accepted by the CFA at the time of award, see paragraph (b) of this clause. The Contractor shall submit EVM reports in accordance with the requirements of this contract. b. If, at the time of award, the Contractor's EVM system has not been validated and accepted by the CFA as complying with EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard-748 (current version at time of award), the Contractor shall: 1. Apply the current system to the contract; and 2. Take necessary and timely actions to meet the milestones in the Contractor's EVMS plan approved by the Contracting Officer. c. HHS requires the Contractor to obtain validation and acceptance of its EVM system by the CFA during the base period of performance of this contract. The Contracting Officer or designee will conduct a Compliance Review to assess the Contractor's compliance with its approved plan. If the Contractor does not follow the approved implementation schedule or correct all resulting system deficiencies noted during the Compliance Review within a reasonable time, the Contracting Officer may take remedial action, which may include, but is not limited to, suspension of or reduction in progress payments, or a reduction in fee. d. HHS will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). If a pre-award IBR has not been conducted, a post-award IBR will be conducted by HHS as early as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after contract award. The Contracting Officer may also require an IBR as part of the exercise of an option or the incorporation of a major modification. e. Unless a waiver is granted by the CFA, Contractor-proposed EVMS changes require approval of the CFA prior to implementation. The CFA will advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed changes from the Contractor. If the advance approval requirements are waived by the CFA, the Contractor shall disclose EVMS changes to the CFA at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of implementation. f. The Contractor shall provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by the Contracting Officer or a duly authorized representative as necessary to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the EVMS conforms, and continues to conform, with the requirements referenced in paragraph (a) of this clause.

g. The Contractor shall require the subcontractors specified below to comply with the requirements of the clause: (Insert list of applicable subcontractors.)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 64 of 112

H.13

CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT of SENSITIVE INFORMATION

The contractor shall guarantee strict confidentiality of the information/data that it is provided during the performance of the contract including the use of non-disclosure agreements. The Government has determined that the information/data that the Contractor will be provided during the performance of the contract is of a sensitive nature. Disclosure of the information/data, in whole or in part, by the Contractor can only be made after the Contractor receives prior written approval from the Contracting Officer. Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling of information/data under the contract, the Contractor shall be required to obtain a written determination from the Contracting Officer.

H.14 AWARD ANNOUNCEMENT Prior to making any announcement regarding this award, the contractor shall contact Karen Migdail AHRQ`s Director of Media Relations at karen.migdail@ahrq.hhs.gov or 301-427-1855. All press announcements will be coordinated with AHRQ and the Department of Health and Human Services.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 65 of 112

PART II ญ CONTRACT CLAUSES SECTION I CONTRACT CLAUSES GENERAL CLAUSES ญ COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACT This contract incorporates the following clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far/. NOTE: The clause listing below contains contractual information pertinent to this solicitation and is not an exact representation of the contract document that will be awarded as a result of this solicitation. The contract cost or price and other contractual provisions pertinent to the offeror (i.e., those relating to the organizational structure [e.g., Non-Profit, Commercial, Educational Institution, State or Local Government, etc.] and specific cost authorizations unique to the Offeror's proposal and requiring Contracting Officer Prior Approval) will be included in the resultant contract. FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES: FAC 2005-58 FAR TITLE DATE CLAUSE NO. 52.202-1 Definitions Jan 2012 52.203-3 Gratuities Apr 1984 52.203-5 Covenant Against Contingent Fees Apr 1984 52.203-6 Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government Sep 2006 52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures Oct 2010 52.203-8 Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Jan 1997 Improper Activity 52.203-10 Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity Jan 1997 52.203-12 Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions Oct 2010 (Over $150,000) 52.203-13 Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Over $5M and Apr 2010 POP is 120 days or more) 52.203-14 Display of Hotline Poster(s) (Over $5M) Dec 2007 DHHS Poster: http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/hotline/OIG_Hotline_Poster.pdf 52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper May 2011 52.204-7 Central Contractor Registration Feb 2012 52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel Jan 2011 52.204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Feb 2012 Awards ($25,000 or more) Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Page 66 of 112

FAR TITLE CLAUSE NO. 52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interests When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Over $30,000) 52.209-9 Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters 52.215-2 Audit and Records - Negotiation 52.215-8 Order of Precedence - Uniform Contract Format 52.215-10 Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data (Over $700,000) 52.215-12 Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data (Over $700,000) 52.215-14 Integrity of Unit Prices 52.215-15 Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions (Over $700,000) 52.215-18 Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Post-Retirement Benefits (PRB) other than Pensions 52.215-19 Notification of Ownership Changes 52.215-21 Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications 52.215-23 Limitations on Pass-Through Charges 52.216-7 Allowable Cost and Payment 52.216-8 Fixed Fee 52.216-11 Cost Contract - No Fee 52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns 52.219-9 Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Over $650,000), Alternate II (Oct 2001) 52.219-16 Liquidated Damages - Subcontracting Plan (Over $650,000) 52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Representation 52.222-2 Payment for Overtime Premium (Note: The dollar amount in paragraph (a) of this clause is $0 unless otherwise specified in the contract.) 52.222-3 Convict Labor 52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities 52.222-26 Equal Opportunity 52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Over $100,000) 52.222-36 Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities 52.222-37 Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Over $100,000) 52.222.40 Notification of Employer Rights Under National Labor Relations Act 52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons 52.222-54 Employment Eligibility Verification Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

DATE Dec 2010

Feb 2012 Oct 2010 Oct 1997 Aug 2011 Oct 2010 Oct 2010 Oct 2010 Jul 2005 Oct 1997 Oct 2010 Oct 2009 Jun 2011 Jun 2011 Apr 1984 Jan 2011 Jan 2011 Jan 1999 Apr 2012 Jul 1990

Jun 2003 Feb 1999 Mar 2007 Sep 2010 Oct 2010 Sep 2010 Dec 2010 Feb 2009 Jan 2009

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 67 of 112

FAR TITLE CLAUSE NO. 52.223-6 Drug-Free Workplace 52.223-18 Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving 52.224-1 Privacy Act Notification 52.224-2 Privacy Act 52.225-1 Buy American Act - Supplies 52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases 52.227-1 Authorization and Consent, Alternate I (Apr 1984) 52.227-2 Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement 52.227-11 Patent Rights - Ownership by the Contractor (Note: In accordance with FAR 27.303(b)(2), paragraph (e) is modified to include the requirements in FAR 27.303(b)(2)(i) through (iv). The frequency of reporting in (i) is annual. 52.227-17 Rights in Data ญ Special Works 52.228-7 Insurance ญ Liability to Third Person 52.230-2 Cost Accounting Standards 52.230-6 Administration of Cost Accounting Standards 52.232-9 Limitation on Withholding of Payments 52.232-17 Interest 52.232-18 Availability of Funds 52.232-20 Limitation of Cost 52.232-23 Assignment of Claims 52.232-25 Prompt Payment, Alternate I (Feb 2002) 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration 52.233-1 Disputes 52.233-3 Protest After Award, Alternate I (Jun 1985) 52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim 52.237-3 Continuity of Services 52.239-1 Privacy or Security Safeguards 52.242-1 Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs 52.242-3 Penalties for Unallowable Costs (Over $700,000) 52.242-4 Certification of Final Indirect Costs 52.242-13 Bankruptcy 52.243-2 Changes - Cost Reimbursement, Alternate I (Apr 1984) 52.244-2 Subcontracts, Alternate I (June 2007) 52.244-5 Competition in Subcontracting 52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Items (with Alternate I (Jun 2010) if Over $5M ) 52.245-1 Government Property, Alternate II (June 2007) Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

DATE May 2001 Aug 2011 Apr 1984 Apr 1984 Feb 2009 Jun 2008 Dec 2007 Dec 2007 Dec 2007

Dec 2007 Mar 1996 Oct 2010 Jun 2010 Apr 1984 Oct 2010 Apr 1984 Apr 1984 Jan 1986 Oct 2008 Oct 2003 Jul 2002 Aug 1996 Oct 2004 Jan 1991 Aug 1996 Apr 1984 May 2001 Jan 1997 Jul 1995 Aug 1987 Oct 2010 Dec 1996 Dec 2010 Apr 2012

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 68 of 112

FAR CLAUSE NO. 52.245-9 52.246-5 52.246-23 52.246-25 52.249-5 52.249-6 52.249-14 52.251-1 52.253-1

TITLE Use and Charges Inspection of Services ญ Cost Reimbursement Limitation of Liability Limitation of Liability - Services Termination for Convenience of the Government (Educational and Other Nonprofit Institutions) Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) Excusable Delays Government Supply Source Computer Generated Forms

DATE Apr 2012 Apr 1984 Feb 1997 Feb 1997 Sep 1996 May 2004 Apr 1984 Aug 2010 Jan 1991

HHSAR REGULATION (48 CFR CHAPTER 3) CLAUSES HHSAR TITLE CLAUSE NO. 352.201-70 Paperwork Reduction Act 352.202-1 Definitions with Alternate paragraph (h) 352.203-70 Anti-Lobbying 352.216-70 Additional Cost Principals 352.222-70 Contractor Cooperation in Equal Employment Opportunity Investigations 352.223-70 Safety and Health 352.224-70 Privacy Act 352.227-70 Publications and Publicity 352.228-7 Insurance ญ Liability to Third Persons 352.231-70* Salary Rate Limitation 352.233-71 Litigation and Claims 352.239-72 Security Requirements for Federal Information Technology Resources 352.242-70 Key Personnel 352.242-73 Withholding of Contract Payments 352.242-74 Final Decisions on Audit Findings 352.270-1 Accessibility of Meetings, Conferences, and Seminars of Persons with Disabilities 352.270-7 Conference Sponsorship Request and Conference Materials Disclaimer

DATE Jan 2006 Jan 2006 Mar 2012 Jan 2006 Jan 2010 Jan 2006 Jan 2006 Jan 2006 Dec 1991 Mar 2012 Jan 2006 Jan 2010 Jan 2006 Jan 2006 Apr 1984 Jan 2001 Jan 2010

*Please note: The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012, which restricts the amount of direct salary, was revised from Executive Level I to Executive Level II.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 69 of 112

ADDITIONAL FAR CONTRACT CLAUSES INCLUDED IN FULL TEXT
Additional clauses other than those listed below which are based on the type of contract/Contractor shall be determined during negotiations. Any contract awarded from this solicitation will contain the following:

FAR 52.209-9 Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (February 2012) (a) The Contractor shall update the information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) on a semi-annual basis, throughout the life of the contract, by posting the required information in the Central Contractor Registration database at https://www.acquisition.gov. (b) As required by section 3010 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 (Pub. L. 111212), all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. FAPIIS consists of two segments-- (1) The non-public segment, into which Government officials and the Contractor post information, which can only be viewed by-- (i) Government personnel and authorized users performing business on behalf of the Government; or (ii) The Contractor, when viewing data on itself; and (2) The publicly-available segment, to which all data in the non-public segment of FAPIIS is automatically transferred after a waiting period of 14 calendar days, except for-- (i) Past performance reviews required by subpart 42.15; (ii) Information that was entered prior to April 15, 2011; or (iii) Information that is withdrawn during the 14-calendar-day waiting period by the Government official who posted it in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. (c) The Contractor will receive notification when the Government posts new information to the Contractor`s record. (1) If the Contractor asserts in writing within 7 calendar days, to the Government official who posted the information, that some of the information posted to the non-public segment of FAPIIS is covered by a disclosure exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, the Government official who posted the information must within 7 calendar days remove the posting from FAPIIS and resolve the issue in accordance with agency Freedom of Information procedures, prior to reposting the releasable information. The contractor must cite 52.209-9 and request removal within 7 calendar days of the posting to FAPIIS. (2) The Contractor will also have an opportunity to post comments regarding information that has been posted by the Government. The comments will be retained as long as the associated information is retained, i.e., for a total period of 6 years. Contractor comments will remain a part of the record unless the Contractor revises them. (3) As required by section 3010 of Pub. L. 111-212, all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 70 of 112

(d) Public requests for system information posted prior to April 15, 2011, will be handled under Freedom of Information Act procedures, including, where appropriate, procedures promulgated under E.O. 12600. (End of clause) Option for Increased Quantity--Separately Priced Line Item FAR 52.217-7 (March 1989) The Government may require the delivery of the numbered line item, identified in the Schedule as an option item, in the quantity and at the price stated in the Schedule. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within any time during the period of performance. Delivery of added items shall continue at the same rate that like items are called for under the contract, unless the parties otherwise agree. Option to Extend the Term of the Contract FAR 52.217-9 (March 2000) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within one day of the expiration of the contract; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 61 months. (End of clause)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 71 of 112

PART III- LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND ATTACHMENTS SECTION J ญ SOLICITATION LIST OF ATTACHMENTS Attachment Pages

A. Proposal Intent Response Form 1 B. Past Performance Questionnaire and Contractor Performance Form 6 C. Sample Format for Cost Proposal 2 D. Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data 1 E. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities-SF-LLL(See Link Below) http://www.gsa.gov/portal/forms/download/E0F5394ACA9DDC4085256A3E005C7420 1. Privacy Act System of Records

NOTE: ALL SOLICITATION ATTACHMENTS ARE LOCATED AT THE END OF THIS REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL. ***The following sections will be included in the resultant contract.*** SECTION J ญ LIST OF ATTACHMENTS Attachment 1. 2. 3. Privacy Act System of Records Small Business Subcontracting Plan, dated _________. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities-SF-LLL

PART IVญ REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS

SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS The following documents are incorporated by reference in this contract: The Representations and Certification dated (Completed at Time of Award). ***End Section***

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 72 of 112

PART IVญ REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS IF YOU INTEND TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL YOU MUST: 1. Go to the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) at: https://orca.bpn.gov/ and complete the Representations and Certifications; and Complete, and INCLUDE as part of your BUSINESS PROPOSAL: SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS

2.

SECTION K - REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS
Updated through FAC 2005-58 Last updated: April 2012

This SECTION is made up of seven parts as follows: K.1.Annual Representations and Certifications K.2.Cost Accounting Standards K.3.Certification Regarding Environmental Tobacco Smoke K.4.Certification of Institutional Policy on Conflict of Financial Interest K.5.Disaster or Emergency Area Representation K.6.Certification of Filing and Payment of Taxes K.7.Information Regarding Responsibility Matters
To Be Completed by the Offeror: This document must be completed and included as part of your Business Proposal. By submission of its signed offer, the offeror makes the following Representations and Certifications:

K.1
(a)

ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (Mar 2012), FAR Clause
(1) (2) (3) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is ____________________ [insert NAICS code]. The Small Business Size Standard is _______________________ [insert size standard]. The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. Inasmuch as clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, the following paragraph (c) of this provision applies.

52.204-8

(b)

(1)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 73 of 112

(c) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at https:www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

FAR Clause No.

Title

Date

Change

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of Provision)

K.2. COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
(1) Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification (Oct 2008), FAR Provision 52.230-1 Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CA S) requirements applicable to any resultant contract. If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS-coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201- 2(C)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively.

I.

Disclosure Statement -- Cost Accounting Practices and Certification (a) Any contract in excess of $650,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 9903.201-1. Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror's proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for

(b)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 74 of 112

submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. CAUTION: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data.

(c)

Check the appropriate box below: [ ] (1) Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement. The offeror hereby certifies that, as part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable, and; one copy to the cognizant Federal auditor.

(ii)

(Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable.. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the looseleaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation). Date of Disclosure Statement: _______________________________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ______________________________________________________________ __ ______________________________________________________________ __ The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement.

[ ] (2)

Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement. The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: Date of Disclosure Statement: ______________________________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ______________________________________________________________ __ ______________________________________________________________ __

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 75 of 112

The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. [ ] (3) Certificate of Monetary Exemption. The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling more than $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. [ ] (4) Certificate of Interim Exemption. The offeror hereby certifies that: (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted, and (ii) in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under subparagraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. CAUTION: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS- covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. [ ] (5) Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution. (ALTERNATE I - April 1996) If the offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of 48 CFR 9903- 202-1(f), is or will be required to submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete): [ ] (i) A Disclosure Statement filing Due Date of ___________ has been established with the cognizant Federal agency. The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the 6-month period ending ___________ months after receipt of this award.

[ ] (ii)

Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed:

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 76 of 112

______________________________________________________________ __ ______________________________________________________________ __ II. Cost Accounting Standards--Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. [ ] The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. CAUTION: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more.

III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards Clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts. [ ] YES [ ] NO

(2) 7)

Proposal Disclosure-Cost Accounting Practice Changes, (March 2005)(FAR Provision 52.230The offeror shall check yes below if the contract award will result in a required or unilateral change in cost accounting practice, including unilateral changes requested to be desirable changes. [ ] YES [ ] NO If the offeror checked Yes above, the offeror shallญ (1) (2) Prepare the price proposal in response to the solicitation using the changed practice for the period of performance for which the practice will be used; and Submit a description of the changed cost accounting practice to the Contracting Officer and the Cognizant Federal Agency Official as pricing support for the proposal.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 77 of 112

K.3. CERTIFICATION REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE (Dec
1994) Public Law 103-227, also known as the Pro-Children Act of 1994 (Act), requires that smoking not be permitted in any portion of any indoor facility owned or leased or contracted for by an entity and used routinely or regularly for the provision of health, day care, early childhood development services, education or library services to children under the age of 18, if the services are funded by Federal programs either directly or through State or local governments, by Federal grant, contract, loan, or loan guarantee. The law also applies to children's services that are provided in indoor facilities that are constructed, operated, or maintained with such federal funds. The law does not apply to children's services provided in private residences; portions of facilities used for inpatient drug or alcohol treatment; service providers whose sole source of applicable federal funds is Medicare or Medicaid; or facilities where WIC coupons are redeemed. Failure to comply with the provisions of the law may result in the imposition of a civil monetary penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation and/or the imposition of an administrative compliance order on the responsible entity. By submission of its signed offer, the offeror/contractor (for acquisitions) or applicant/grantee (for grants) certifies that the submitting organization will comply with the requirements of the Act and will not allow smoking within any portion of any indoor facility used for the provision of services for children as defined by the Act. The submitting organization agrees that it will require that the language of this certification be included in any subawards which contain provisions for children's services and that all subrecipients shall certify accordingly.

K.4. CERTIFICATION OF INSTITUTIONAL POLICY ON CONFLICT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST (March 2008)
By Submission of its signed offer, the offeror certifies that: (1) there is in effect at the Institution (the term Institution includes any contractor, public or private, excluding a Federal agency) a written and enforced administrative process to identify and manage, reduce or eliminate conflicting interests with respect to all research projects for which funding is sought; (2) prior to the Institution's expenditure of any funds under the award, the Institution will report to the Contracting Officer the existence of a conflicting interest (but not the nature of the interest or other details) found by the Institution and assure that the interest has been managed, reduced or eliminated in accordance with the regulations; and for any interest that the Institution identifies as conflicting subsequent to the expenditure of funds after award, the report will be made and the conflicting interest managed, reduced, or eliminated, at least on a temporary basis within sixty days of that identification; (3) the Institution agrees to make information available, upon request, to the Contracting Officer regarding all conflicting interests identified by the Institution and how those interested have been managed, reduced, or eliminated to protect the research from bias; and (4) the Institution will otherwise comply with 45 CFR Part 94.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 78 of 112

K.5.

DISASTER OR EMERGENCY AREA REPRESENTATION, (Nov 2007), FAR

Provision 52.226-3 Note: This provision is applicable for acquisitions that are set-aside for a Disaster or Emergency Area under FAR Subpart 26.2. See Section L.1. of the Solicitation, paragraph entitled "Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside." a) Set-aside area. The area covered in this contract is: ________________________________________________ [ Contracting Officer to fill in with definite geographic boundaries.] (b) Representations. The offeror represents that it o does o does not reside or primarily do business in the designated set-aside area. (c) An offeror is considered to be residing or primarily doing business in the set-aside area if, during the last twelve months-- (1) The offeror had its main operating office in the area; and (2) That office generated at least half of the offeror`s gross revenues and employed at least half of the offeror`s permanent employees. (d) If the offeror does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c) of this provision, factors to be considered in determining whether an offeror resides or primarily does business in the set-aside area include-- (1) Physical location(s) of the offeror`s permanent office(s) and date any office in the set -aside area(s) was established; (2) Current state licenses; (3) Record of past work in the set-aside area(s) (e.g., how much and for how long); (4) Contractual history the offeror has had with subcontractors and/or suppliers in the set-aside area; (5) Percentage of the offeror`s gross revenues attributable to work performed in the set -aside area; (6) Number of permanent employees the offeror employs in the set-aside area; (7) Membership in local and state organizations in the set-aside area; and (8) Other evidence that establishes the offeror resides or primarily does business in the set-aside area. For example, sole proprietorships may submit utility bills and bank statements. (e) If the offeror represents it resides or primarily does business in the set-aside area, the offeror shall furnish documentation to support its representation if requested by the Contracting Officer. The solicitation may require the offeror to submit with its offer documentation to support the representation. (End of provision)

K.6. CERTIFICATION OF FILING AND PAYMENT OF TAXES
Note: None of the funds appropriated by the current HHS annual appropriations act shall be used to enter into a contract greater than $5,000,000 unless the offeror certifies to the following: By submission of its signed offer, the offeror certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, it has filed all Federal tax returns required during the three years preceding the certification, has not

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 79 of 112

been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding.

K.7. INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (Feb 2012), FAR Provision 52.209-7
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- Administrative proceeding means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000 means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinitedelivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity ( e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [ ] has [ ] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked has in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System(FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in -- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000; (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 80 of 112

(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 81 of 112

SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS

L.1

SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) (FAR 52.252-1) This solicitation incorporates the following solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the contracting officer will make the full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be assessed electronically at this address: http://www.arnet.gov/far/ a. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Solicitation Provisions (1) (2) 52.215-16 52.215-20 Facilities Capital Cost of Money (JUNE 2003) Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data (OCT 2010) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges-Identification of Subcontract Effort (OCT 2009)

(3)

52.215-23

L.2

DATA UNIVERSAL NUMBERING (DUNS) (APR 2008) (FAR 52.204-6) (a) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation DUNS or DUNS+4 followed by the DUNS number or DUNS+4 that identifies the offeror`s name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The DUNS number is a nine-digit number assigned by Dun and Bradstreet, Inc. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. (1) An offeror may obtain a DUNS number-- (i) Via the Internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform or if the offeror does not have internet access, it may call Dun and Bradstreet at 1-866-7055711 if located within the United States; or (ii) If located outside the United States, by contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office.

(b)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 82 of 112

(2) The offeror should be prepared to provide the following information: (i) Company legal business name. (ii) Tradestyle, doing business, or other name by which your entity is commonly recognized. (iii) Company physical street address, city, state and ZIP Code. (iv) Company mailing address, city, state and ZIP Code (if separate from physical). (v) Company telephone number. (vi) Date the company was started. (vii) Number of employees at your location. (viii) Chief executive officer/key manager. (ix) Line of business (industry). (x) Company Headquarters name and address (reporting relationship within your entity). (End of provision)

L.3

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS - COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION (JAN 2004)(FAR 52.215-1) Definitions. As used in this provision -Discussions are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting Officer`s discretion, result in the offeror being allowed to revise its proposal. In writing, writing, or written means any worded or numbered expression which can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and includes electronically transmitted and stored information. Proposal modification is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation`s closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or made to correct a mistake at any time before award. Proposal revision is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer as the result of negotiations. Time, if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next working day.

(a)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 83 of 112

(b)

Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s). Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (1) Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in the solicitation, proposals and modifications to proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the offeror. Offerors using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost wrapper with the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision. (2) The first page of the proposal must show -(i) (ii) The solicitation number; The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the offeror (and electronic address if available); A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation and agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item; Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate on the offeror`s behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent`s authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office.

(c)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(3)

Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (i) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modification, or revisions, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 84 of 112

(ii)

(A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is late and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and -(1) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals; or There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government`s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or It is the only proposal received. (B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Government will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.

(2)

(3)

(iii)

Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the proposal before award. (1) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items.

(iv)

(v)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 85 of 112

(2)

Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation, and in U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is included in the solicitation. Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award. Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer. Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting Officer.

(3)

(7)

(8)

(d)

Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror). Restriction on disclosure and use of data. (1) The proposal submitted in response to this request may contain data (trade secrets; business data (e.g., commercial information, financial information, cost and pricing data); and technical data) which the offeror, including its prospective subcontractor(s), does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than for evaluation of the proposal. The use and disclosure of any data may be so restricted; provided, that the Government determines that the data is not required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the offeror marks the cover sheet of the proposal with the following statements, specifying the particular portions of the proposal which are to be restricted: Unless disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, (the Act) as determined by Freedom of Information (FOI) officials of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), data contained in the portions of this proposal which the offeror has specifically identified by page number, paragraph, etc. as containing restricted information shall not be used or disclosed except for evaluation purposes. The offeror acknowledges that HHS may not be able to withhold a record (e.g., data, document, etc.) nor deny access to a record requested pursuant to the Act and that the HHS' FOI officials must make that determination. The offeror hereby agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure if HHS has determined that disclosure is required by the Act.

(e)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 86 of 112

If a contract is awarded to the offeror as a result of, or in connection with, the submission of this proposal, the Government shall have the right to use or disclose the data to the extent provided in the contract. Proposals not resulting in a contract remain subject to the Act. The offeror also agrees that the Government is not liable for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose the data for any purpose, including the release of the information pursuant to requests under the Act. The data subject to this restriction are contained in pages (insert page numbers, paragraph designations, etc. or other identification). (2) In addition, the offeror must mark each page of data it wishes to restrict with the following statement: Use or disclosure of data contained on this page is subject to the restriction on the cover sheet of this proposal or quotation.'' (3) Offerors are cautioned that proposals submitted with restrictive statements or statements differing in substance from those cited above may not be considered for award. The Government reserves the right to reject any proposal submitted with nonconforming statement(s). (f) Contract award. (1) The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror(s) whose proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the solicitation. The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government`s interest. The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received. The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as described in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror`s initial proposal should contain the offeror`s best terms from a cost or price and technical standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. If the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.

(2)

(3)

(4)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 87 of 112

(5)

The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal. The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the Government`s best interest to do so. Exchanges with offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government. The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government. If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance or schedule risk. A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time specified in the proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (i) The agency`s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror`s offer. The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. A summary of the rationale for award. For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv) (v)

(vi)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 88 of 112

L.4

TYPE OF CONTRACT (APRIL 1984)(FAR 52.216-1) The Government contemplates award of a cost reimbursement contract resulting from this solicitation.

L.5

SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)(FAR 52.233-2) (a) Protests, as defined in Section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the General Accounting Office (GAO) shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: Director, Division of Contracts Management Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

L.6

Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility, (January 2010) HHSAR 352.239-73(a)
a. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Electronic and Information (EIT) Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194), require that, unless an exception applies, all EIT products and services developed, acquired, maintained, or used by any Federal department or agency permit-- 1. Federal employees with disabilities to have access to and use information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by Federal employees who are not individuals with disabilities; and Members of the public with disabilities seeking information or services from a Federal agency to have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to the access and use of information and data by members of the public who are not individuals with disabilities.

2.

b.

Accordingly, any vendor submitting a proposal/quotations/bid in response to this solicitation must demonstrate compliance with the established EIT accessibility standards. Information about Section 508 visions is available at http://www.section508.gov/ . The complete text of Section 508 Final Provisions can be accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/provisions.htm .

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 89 of 112

c.

The Section 508 accessibility standards applicable to this solicitation are identified in the Statement of Work/Specification/Performance Work Statement. In order to facilitate the Government's evaluation to determine whether EIT products and services proposed meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, offerors must prepare an HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, in accordance with its completion instructions, and provide a binding statement of conformance. The purpose of the template is to assist HHS acquisition and program officials in determining that EIT products and services proposed support applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. The template allows vendors or developers to self-evaluate their products or services and document in detail how they do or do not conform to a specific Section 508 standard. Instructions for preparing the HHS Section 508 Product Evaluation Template may be found under Section 508 policy on the HHS Office on Disability Web site ( http://www.hhs.gov/od/ ). Respondents to this solicitation must also provide any additional detailed information necessary for determining applicable Section 508 standards conformance, as well as for documenting EIT products or services that are incidental to the project, which would constitute an exception to Section 508 requirements. If a vendor claims its products or services, including EIT deliverables such as electronic documents and reports, meet applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in its completed HHS Section 508 Product Assessment Template, and it is later determined by the Government -- i.e., after award of a contract/order, that products or services delivered do not conform to the described accessibility standards in the Product Assessment Template, remediation of the products or services to the level of conformance specified in the vendor's Product Assessment Template will be the responsibility of the Contractor and at its expense.

d.

L.7

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

The following instructions will establish the acceptable minimum requirements for the format and contents of proposals. Special attention is directed to the requirements for technical and business proposals to be submitted in accordance with these instructions: (a) In addition to the special provisions of this request for proposal (RFP), any resultant contract shall include the general clauses applicable to the selected offeror's organization and type of contract awarded. Any additional clauses required by Public Law, Executive Order, or procurement regulations, in effect at the time of execution of the proposed contract, will be included. Authorized Official and Submission of Proposal: The proposal shall be signed by an official authorized to bind the offeror's organization.

(b)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 90 of 112

Proposals shall be typewritten, reproduced on letter sized paper with no less than a 11 point font, double-spaced (lists of deliverables, person loading charts, and similar materials need not be double-spaced, so long as they are legible). To expedite the proposal evaluation, proposal shall be submitted in the following parts. Each part shall be separate and complete so that evaluation of each part may be accomplished independently. The name of the offeror, the RFP number and the title of the RFP should appear on the cover of each part. I. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL: See Technical Proposal Instructions (L.8). Submit Original, (clearly marked) and 10 copies plus 2 CD ROM copies. PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION: See Past Performance Information Instructions for format (L.9). Submit Original, (clearly marked) and 2 copies and 2 CDs. BUSINESS PROPOSAL: See Business Proposal Instructions (L.10). Submit Original, (clearly marked) and 5 copies plus 2 CD ROM copies in Excel format. Please note that the business proposal includes the cost/price proposal and the Small Business Subcontracting Plan. SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PLAN: See Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan Instructions for format (L.11). Submit Original, (clearly marked) and 2 copies plus 1 CD.

II.

III.

IV.

(c).

Evaluation of Proposals: The Government will evaluate proposals in accordance with the criteria set forth in Section M. It is understood that your proposal will become part of the official contract file. Unnecessarily Elaborate Proposals: Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete and effective proposal are not desired and may be construed as an indication of the offeror's lack of cost consciousness. Elaborate art work, expensive visual and other presentation aids are neither necessary nor wanted. Privacy Act: The Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law (P.L.) 93-579) requires that a Federal agency advise each individual whom it asks to supply information: 1) the authority which authorized the solicitation; 2) whether disclosure is voluntary or mandatory; (3) the principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used; (4) the uses outside the agency which may be made of the information; and 4) the effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information. Therefore:

(d).

(e).

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 91 of 112

(1)

The Government is requesting the information called for in this RFP pursuant to the authority provided by Section 301(g) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, and P.L. 92-218, as amended. Provisions of the information requested are entirely voluntary. The collection of this information is for the purpose of conducting an accurate, fair, and adequate review prior to a discussion as to whether to award a contract. Failure to provide any or all of the requested information may result in a less than adequate review. The information provided by you may be routinely disclosed for the following purposes: -to the cognizant audit agency and the General Accounting Officer for auditing; -to the Department of Justice as required for litigation; -to respond to Congressional inquiries; and -to qualified experts, not within the definition of Department employees for opinions as a part of the review process.

(2) (3)

(4)

(5)

In addition, the Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-579, Section 7) requires that the following information be provided when individuals are requested to disclose their social security number. Provision of the social security number is voluntary. Social security numbers are requested for the purpose of accurate and efficient identification, referral, review and management of AHRQ contracting programs. Authority for requesting this information is provided by Section 305 and Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. (f). The RFP does not commit the Government to pay any cost for the preparation and submission of a proposal. It is also brought to your attention that the Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this or any acquisition action.

L.8

TECHNICAL PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS The technical proposal described below shall be limited to 100 pages not including resumes/CVs. The 100 page limit includes all other portions of the technical proposal. The technical proposal shall not contain reference to cost; however resources information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, labor mix, materials, subcontracts, etc., shall be contained in the technical proposal so that your understanding of the Statement of Work (SOW)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 92 of 112

may be evaluated. The offeror`s proposal should present sufficient information to reflect a thorough understanding of the work requirements and a detailed plan for achieving the objectives of the proposed end results and the requirements of the statement of work (Section C). This shall include, at a minimum, the requirements of these instructions. Technical proposals shall not merely paraphrase the requirements of the Agency`s scope of work or parts thereof, or use of phrases such as will comply or standard techniques will be employed. Lengthy proposals and voluminous appendices are neither needed nor desired and may indicate the offeror`s inability to concisely state their proposal. Offerors are hereby advised that the Agency, unless otherwise specified, i.e., by law, will acquire the right to use, duplicate or disclose in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and have or permit others to do so, all subject data required to be delivered under any contract resulting from this solicitation.

Technical Proposal Format To assist in the expeditious and comprehensive evaluation of your proposal, the Government desires that you follow the guidelines and format listed below:

(a)

Cover Page: The name of the proposing organization, list of proposed subcontractors, author(s) of the technical proposal, the RFP number and the title of the RFP should appear on the cover. Table of Contents: Provide sufficient detail so that all important elements of the proposal can be located readily. Introduction: This should be a one or two page summary outlining the proposed work, your interest in submitting a proposal, and the importance of this effort in relation to your overall operation. Technical Discussion: The offeror shall prepare a technical discussion which addresses evaluation criteria below. The offeror shall further state that no deviations or exceptions to the Statement of Work (SOW) are taken. The evaluation criteria are as follows: A. Technical Approach B. Management Plan C. Personnel D. Facilities and Equipment

(b)

(c)

(d)

Technical Proposal Requirements 1. Technical A. a. MEPS Technical Approach Technical Discussion

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 93 of 112

The offeror shall describe in detail the methodologies they will use for this project, indicating their level of experience with each, areas of anticipated difficulties and any unusual problems they anticipate. The offeror shall also address each of the following as they pertain to the tasks below described in the statement of work: Task 3.3 ญ Medical Provider Component A description of how offeror will monitor response rates proactively and develop a plan of action for potential response rate problems. A discussion of what methods will be used to minimize inevitable multiple contacts on response rates, especially in the context of an ongoing, longitudinal survey. The offeror will monitor response rate and proactively develop a procedure or procedures that result in, and maintain, the stipulated response rate. The offeror must anticipate that maintaining specified response rates will be a challenge, and as a result develop strategies that will anticipate a drop in response rates and how best to address such a reality. How the listing of providers generated on an ongoing basis from the HC will be unduplicated and the methods that will be used to construct a complete but unduplicated list of providers to minimize the number of providers receiving multiple data requests. A description of the methods that will be used to insure that all possible sources of medical records within a hospital are uncovered by the MPC interviewers and a description of methods to insure at correct office based provider (disavowals). A description of the cost efficiencies of the proposed trainings, the timing of the proposed trainings, and the number of trainees attending and completing the proposed trainings. A document describing the number of staff needed for each event type and abstraction versus phone data collection staff needed to collect quality data at the required response rates. A plan for mode of data capture including why the mode decided upon was chosen. The facilities available for the coordination of receipt of data through multiple media, and space available for abstraction and phone data collection including the ability to accept electronic record for all provider types (which would reduce the burden to the public).

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 94 of 112

The procedures that will be used to minimize the need for data retrieval from providers. A plan on how the offeror will manage version control of data files and documents. A plan which describes MPC processes and how offeror will manage the maintenance/updating of these processes, and how changes to these processes will be controlled, managed and approved. A description of the offeror`s data management plan including the soundness of the plan. A plan describing data delivery and coordination with the AHRQ and the HC contractor. A description of the systems for conducting data collection and abstraction activities including how quality of the data will be ensured. A description of the data security procedures that will be used and their conformity with the appropriate Federal standards. A description of a conflict of interest mitigation plan, if necessary and appropriate. Procedures for back up of data files. Task 3.10 - Data Processing A description of the systems for conducting data processing activities including between wave processing and how changes to these processes will be controlled, managed and approved. A description of the data security procedures that will be used and their conformity with the appropriate federal standards. A description of the offerer's experience in processing complex data. The offeror should assume the following: ท At the provider level, approximately 85 percent of hospital providers and 40 percent of office based provider providers will require abstraction. These percentages will increase at the provider/pair level.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 95 of 112

After matching to static tables that contain codes for previous strings that required coding: ท Approximately 5,000 prescribed medicine strings will require coding. Approximately 32,000 procedure text strings will require coding. Approximately 4,000 condition text strings will require coding.

ท ท

b. Matching and Editing The offeror shall show successful demonstration of the statistical and substantive soundness of the data matching techniques proposed. The offeror shall demonstrate a plan for addressing innovation and technological advancements and capability to maintain compatibility with industry mechanisms. The offeror shall have an on-site edit shop that shall include review of patient-provider pairs and/or events in terms of specifications for edit anomalies. Edit failures shall be reviewed by an expert to determine the resolution of the anomaly and shall include reviewing hard copy records when available, call backs (when necessary), and review of an entire event or pair. c. Quality Assurance Plan The offeror shall provide a quality assurance plan that details how they shall monitor and control the services provided: technical quality, responsiveness, cost control, and effective and efficient resources utilization as well as compliance with the technical requirements and contract provisions. It should clearly show a proposed system for quality of work performed including documents to be produced, and a proposed system for management control. The offeror should describe managerial problems they may encounter and the methods to be used in solving these problems. The offeror shall also demonstrate the ability and flexibility to respond rapidly to changes in budget, priorities and the schedule. Please see sections 3.4.6, 3.4.7, 3.3.9, and 3.4.8 analytical files development including matched files, file delivery, data collection quality control, and overall project quality control, in the Statement of Work. B. Management Plan

The offeror shall provide a detailed plan as to how they shall staff and manage the contract throughout the period of performance including the option years. The Project Plan shall be included in the offeror's proposal and be updated at six month intervals from the effective date of the contract through the life of the project. These updates to

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 96 of 112

the Project Plan shall include accomplishments relative to the originally proposed plan. The Project Plan shall include staffing, field timing and quality, data processing milestones and data delivery. Additional information on survey management is detailed in the SOW. Award fees will be tied to adherence to this project plan. Staffing At a minimum, the Project Director and Directors for all major tasks should be considered key staff. Upon award of the contract, final determination of key staff will be made by AHRQ in consultation with the contractor. The project plan should include a person-loading chart which presents the number of person-days allocated to each tasks and subtasks for each category of staff/ new hires/ subcontractors/consultants for each year of the contract and for the total contract. The chart(s) should also delineate critical milestones and the deliverables for each. The offeror shall also designate which staff members are considered key personnel. Below is an outline of tasks to be used for the Person-Loading Chart: Task 3.1 Task 3.2 Task 3.2.1 Task 3.2.2 Task 3.2.3 Task 3.2.4 Task 3.2.5 Task 3.2.6 Task 3.3 Task 3.3.1 Task 3.3.2 Task 3.3.3 Task 3.3.4 Task 3.3.5 Task 3.3.6 Task 3.3.7 Task 3.3.8 Task 3.3.9 Task 3.3.10 Task 3.4 Task 3.4.1 Task 3.4.2 Task 3.4.3 Task 3.4.4 Task 3.4.5 Task 3.4.6 Project Management/EVM Continue operation of the MEPS MPC MEPS MPC Documentation Liaison with MEPS principals Integration of HC and MPC contractor tasks Cooperate with AHRQ in obtaining required OMB clearances Project closeout/transfer of operations Monthly progress reports Medical Provider Component Implementing and Documenting the Sample Unduplicaing the Sample Provider Directory Identifying hospital physicians that provide care to a patient in a hospital setting but who bill separately from the hospital (SBD) Provide data collection forms, advance letters, other respondent materials Recruiting, training and managing data collection specialists Recruiting, training and managing abstraction staff Collecting data from medical providers including billing staff Data collection quality control activities Onsite data collection project management staff Data Processing Providing data security Forms control and receipt Data entry Conducting training program for coders and verifiers to the extent this activity is not performed in data capture activity Matching Developing internal MPC data files and matched HC and MPC files

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 97 of 112

Task 3.4.6.1 Task 3.4.7

hospital stays (includes hospital identified physician and their payments and can be identified as such), emergency room visits, outpatient department visits, medical provider visits, home health care, long term health care (includes assisted living facilities, nursing homes, rehabilitation facilities, etc.), pharmacies (no matched file for pharmacy) Prescribed Medicines Internal Files Production and Deliveries (includes hospital identified physician and their payments and can be identified as such), emergency room visits, outpatient department visits, medical provider visits, home health care, long term health care (includes assisted living facilities, nursing homes, rehabilitation facilities, etc.), pharmacies (no matched file for pharmacy) Quality Control

Task 3.4.8 Base Period

The Base Period is a transition period which allows the Offeror to plan, prepare and put in place the mechanisms need to perform all the activities in the SOW including quality control procedures and activities in place to ensure at least a satisfactory level of data quality. Option Periods 1, 2, 3, and 4 Option Periods 2, 3, and 4 should mirror the person loading chart for Option Period 1, reflecting the incremental cost of Option Period 2, given the Option Period 1 award and then the incremental cost of Option Period 3, given the award of Option Period 2, and then the incremental cost of Option Period 4, given the award of Option Period 3. The project plan for the Base and all Option Periods should include an organizational chart (s) which presents the placement of the project within the offeror's organization and the organization of the staff proposed for this project. The chart(s) shall show clear lines of authority and function. Field Activities The Project Plan should include a schedule for completion of the work and delivery of items specified in the statement of work. Particular attention should be paid to the most important milestones in the medical provider data collection. Beginning and end dates of MPC data collection Response rates as indicated in Table 3.9.8 (A) Number of staff needed for each event type data collection and number of staff needed with expertise in abstraction and telephone data collection

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 98 of 112

Data Processing The Project Plan should detail major and intermediate milestones for each of the subtasks for Section 3.4 of the SOW. The project plan should also be specified how the work to construct the matched internal files for all provider types except prescribed medicines will be completed and managed - what tasks will be assigned to which group of persons. Key dates for the production of each file should be specified along with the proposed method(s) of quality control and benchmarking the estimates. Performance or delivery schedules shall be indicated for phases or segments or tasks, as applicable, as well as for the overall program. Data Delivery The Project Plan shall affirm the delivery dates for files as specified in the base period of the contract, and if the option period(s) are exercised, the delivery dates specified in the delivery schedule for parallel data files in the option period(s) specified in Section F, as well. At each update to the Project Plan, expected deviation from the contractually specified dates should be noted, along with any reason for deviation. Should the deviation be such that a later date is anticipated, potential corrective actions and their implications should be noted. Schedules should be shown in terms of calendar months from the effective date of the contract or, where applicable, from the date of a stated event, as for example, receipt of a required approval by the Contracting Officer. Unless the offeror`s proposal indicates that the stipulated schedules are mandatory, they shall be treated as desired or recommended schedules. In this event, proposals based upon the offeror`s best alternative schedule, involving no overtime, extra shift or other premium, will be accepted for consideration. Data file deliveries must be in formats specified by the government. The final files deliverable will include matching variables as well MPC variables needed for editing and imputation. It will be in the appropriate format to be input directly into the expenditure and editing programs which the MEPS Household Component contractor performs. Detailed documentation will also be required. Separate from the Project Plan, the offeror must describe the relationship with all subcontractors and consultants including monitoring of their performance. Subcontract information must be provided for each year of the contract including a summary for the entire project performance. Demonstrate that the proposed subcontracting plan meets the DHHS/ AHRQ subcontracting goals. C. Personnel Describe the experience and qualifications of personnel who will be assigned for direct work on this program. Information is required which will show the composition of the task or work group, its general qualifications, and recent experience with similar equipment or programs. Provide specific information of direct technical supervisors and key personnel, and the approximate percentage of the total time each will be available

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 99 of 112

for this contract. Provide details of lines of authority and responsibilities, between employees, subcontractors and consultants. OFFERORS SHOULD ASSURE THAT PERSONNEL PROPOSED, SHALL NOT BE COMMITTED ON FEDERAL GRANTS AND CONTRACTS FOR MORE THAN A TOTAL OF 100% OF THEIR TIME. IF THE SITUATION ARISES WHERE IT IS DETERMINED THAT A PROPOSED EMPLOYEE IS COMMITTED FOR MORE THAN 100% OF HIS OR HER TIME, THE GOVERNMENT WILL REQUIRE ACTION ON THE PART OF THE OFFEROR TO CORRECT THE TIME COMMITMENT. a. Principal Investigator/Project Director List the name of the Principal Investigator/Project Director responsible for overall implementation of the contract as well as the key contact for technical aspects of the project. Discuss the qualifications, experience and accomplishments of the Principal Investigator/Project Director. State the estimated time to be spent on the project, proposed time spent where data collection takes place, his/her proposed duties, and the areas or phases for which he/she will be responsible. b. Other Investigators List all other investigators/professional personnel who will be participating in the project. Discuss their qualifications, experience, and accomplishments. State the estimated time to be spent on the project, proposed time spent where data collection takes place, his/her proposed duties, and the areas or phases for which he/she will be responsible. c. Additional Personnel List names, titles, and proposed duties of additional personnel, if any, who will be required for full-time employment, or on a subcontract or consultant basis. The technical areas, character, and extent of subcontract or consultant activity should be indicated and their qualifications described. For all proposed personnel who are not currently members of the offeror's staff, a letter of commitment or other evidence of availability is required. A resume does not meet this requirement. Commitment letters for use of consultants and other personnel to be hired must include: The specific items or expertise they will provide. Their availability to the project and the amount of time anticipated, for each period of the contract, and a summary. Willingness to act as a consultant. How rights to publications and patents will be handled.

d.

Resumes Resumes of all key personnel are required. Each must indicate educational background, recent experience, specific or technical accomplishments, and a

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 100 of 112

listing of relevant publications. These should be limited to no more than 5 pages of the most relevant experience. D. Facilities and Equipment

The offeror shall describe the suitability, quality and cost-efficiency of their facilities and equipment available for the performance of all requirements of this acquisition. There will be daily interaction between agency staff and the Offeror's staff so suitable logistical plans to facilitate communications and meetings must be addressed. L.9 PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION Offerors shall submit the following information as part of their proposal for both the offeror and proposed major subcontractors (page limit of 25 pages): (a) A list of five (5) contracts and subcontracts completed during the past three years or currently in process that are similar in nature to the solicitation workscope. Contracts listed may include those entered into by the Federal Government, agencies of State and local governments and commercial customers. Offerors that are newly formed entities without prior contracts should list contracts and subcontracts as required for all key personnel. Include the following information for each contract and subcontract: a: Name of contracting activity b: Contract number c: Contract type d: Total contract value e: Contract work f: Contracting Officer and telephone number g: Program Manager and telephone number h: Administrative Contracting Officer, if different from item f, and telephone number i: List of major subcontracts (b) The offeror may provide information on problems encountered on the contracts and subcontracts identified and corrective actions taken to resolve those problems. Offerors should not provide general information on their performance on the identified contracts. General performance information will be obtained from the references. The offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that may indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required. Identify what segment of the company (one division or the entire company) that received the award or certification. Describe when the award or certification was bestowed. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence that the qualifications still apply.

(c)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 101 of 112

(d)

Each offeror will be evaluated on his/her performance under existing and prior contracts for similar products or services. Performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor against which offeror`s relative rankings will be compared to assure best value to the Government. The Government will focus on information that demonstrates quality of performance relative to the size and complexity of the procurement under consideration. References other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the Government with the information received used in the evaluation of the offeror`s past performance.

The attached Past Performance Questionnaire and Contractor Performance Form shall be completed by the offeror`s customers and forwarded directly to the following: Robert Zuhlke Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Division of Contracts Management 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850 FAX: 301-427-1740 Evaluation forms must be received prior to the proposal due date in order to be included in the review process. It is the responsibility of the offeror to ensure that these documents are forwarded to the Contracting Officer. L.10 BUSINESS PROPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS The Business Proposal shall include the Cost/Price Proposal and Other Administrative Data in accordance with the following: Cover Page: One (1) manually signed original of the proposal. The cover page must also include the DUNS and TIN as well as a point of contact and contact information, and all information required by Section L.3, FAR 52.215-1(c)(2). See Section J, Attachments, for a sample format. A. Cost/Price Proposal Provide your organizations overall labor methodology to accomplish the requirements of the contract including any subcontractors and consultants arrangements. Describe their responsibilities. Provide information on the labor categories including a description, and associated labor rates you would anticipate being utilized hereunder. Business proposals shall include the table of contract items and prices contained in Section B of this RFP. Fill in pricing information, but do not otherwise alter the table. The information below shall be provided for each contract item, to allow a separate analysis for each item.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 102 of 112

Include the following information for the prime and all proposed subcontractors.

1. Detailed breakdown of each proposed direct cost element by contract year and task, showing proposed total quantities per year and corresponding proposed unit costs for each item. 2. Discuss the method or basis used to estimate all costs and arrive at proposed costs/prices. Provide a narrative justification for each proposed element of cost which clearly supports the necessity for the proposed item and demonstrates the reasonableness thereof. 3. Supporting documentation for each proposed unit cost. Examples of accepted forms of documentation include invoices, catalog pages, quotations, and general ledgers showing historical costs for comparable items. 4. State salary increase policy, as well as proposed increase factor. If it is company policy for employees to receive salary increases on their anniversary dates of hire, please indicate the anniversary dates of hire for each proposed employee. 5. Breakdown of proposed unloaded direct labor rates and proposed number of direct labor hours for each employee for each contract year. 6. State the proposed period of performance that proposed costs are based upon. 7. Copy of most recent payroll register for ALL proposed employees. If necessary, show proposed hourly rate calculations for each employee. 8. Copy of most current indirect cost rate agreement. If no rate agreement exists, show detailed calculations of all proposed indirect rates, supported by audited or reviewed financial statements. If consultants are proposed, this element should include number of days and daily rate 9. Subcontractor costs shall be broken down and supported by cost and pricing data adequate to establish the reasonableness of the proposed amount. Support documentation should include degree of subcontract competition and basis for selecting source. The subcontractor cost and pricing detail should be similar to the detail provided for the prime contractor. 10. Complete certificate of current cost and pricing data (See Section J, Attachments).

B.

Small Business Subcontracting Plan: All offerors except small businesses are required to submit a subcontracting plan. This requirement does apply to all other offerors, including large business concerns, colleges, universities and non-profit organizations.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 103 of 112

Plans must be submitted in accordance with the Small Business Subcontracting Plan (FAR 52.219-9, Alternate II), incorporated in this solicitation. A copy of a model subcontracting plan is available at

http://www.hhs.gov/about/smallbusiness/subcontractplan.html
If the model plan is not used, all elements outlined must be addressed in the offeror`s format. If the offeror is not a small business and fails to submit a subcontracting plan, the offeror may be considered nonresponsive and their proposal removed from further consideration. The offeror understands that: a. No contract will be awarded without an acceptable plan. The plan will be incorporated into the Contract and the contractor will be required to report results. b. It is the offeror`s responsibility to develop a satisfactory subcontracting plan. An acceptable plan must, in the determination of the Contracting Officer, provide the maximum practicable opportunity for small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged persons to participate in the performance of the contract. Offerors are reminded that the Government intends to award this contract without negotiations, so offerors are cautioned to submit and acceptable plan with their proposal.

C.

Other Administrative Data (a) Property: It is HHS policy that contractors will provide all equipment and facilities necessary for performance of contracts. Exception may be granted to furnish Government-owned property, or in extremely limited circumstances, to authorize purchase with contract funds, only when approved by the contracting officer. If additional equipment must be acquired, you shall include the description, estimated cost of each item and whether you will furnish such items with your own funds. You shall identify Government-owned property in your possession, and/or property acquired from Federal funds to which you have title, that is proposed to be used in the performance of the prospective contract. The management and control of any Government property shall be in accordance with HHS Publication, entitled, "HHS Contracting Guide for Contract of Government Property.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 104 of 112

(b)

Royalties: You shall furnish information concerning royalties which are anticipated to be paid in connection with the performance of work under the proposed contract, if any. Commitments: You shall list other commitments with the Government relating to the specified work or services and indicate whether these commitments will or will not interfere with the completion of work and/or services contemplated under this proposal. Financial Capacity: You shall provide sufficient data to indicate that you have the necessary financial capacity, working capital, and other resources to perform the contract.(Financial data such as balance sheets, profit and loss statements, cash forecasts, should be utilized.) Performance Capability: You shall provide acceptable evidence of your "ability to obtain" equipment, facilities, and personnel necessary to perform the requirements of this Contract. If these are not represented in your current operations, they should normally be supported by commitment or explicit arrangement, which is in existence at the time the contract is to be awarded, for the rental, purchase, or other acquisition of such resources, equipment, facilities, or personnel. Representations and Certifications: Section K, "Representations and Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors" shall be completed and signed by an official authorized to bind your organization. This section shall be made a part of the original business proposal.

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

L.11

SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PLAN In accordance with FAR Part 15.304(c)4, the extent of participation of Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) concerns in performance of the contract shall be evaluated in unrestricted acquisitions expected to exceed a total estimated cost of $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) subject to certain limitations (see FAR 19.201 and 19.1202). A. All offerors, regardless of size, shall submit a plan on the extent of participation of Small Disadvantaged Business concerns in performance of the contract. Participation in performance of the contract includes the work expected to be performed by SDB concern(s). This can include SDB (as prime contractor), joint ventures, teaming arrangements, and subcontracts. Include the following information in SDB participation plans: 1. The extent of an offeror`s commitment to use SDB concerns. Commitment should be as specific as possible, i.e., are

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 105 of 112

subcontract arrangements already in place, letters of commitment, etc. Enforceable commitments will be weighted more heavily than non-enforceable ones. 2. Specifically identify the SDB concerns with point of contact and phone number. The complexity and variety of the work SDB concerns are to perform. Realism for the use of SDB in the proposal. Past performance of the Offeror in complying with subcontracting plans for SDB concerns. Targets expressed as dollars and percentage of total contract value for each participating SDB; which will be incorporated into and become part of any resulting contract. The extent of participation of SDB concerns in terms of the total acquisition.

3.

4. 5.

6.

7.

L.12

NOTICE of EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ญ Pre-Award Integrated Baseline Review, HHSAR 352.234-1 (October 2008)

IMPORTANT NOTE TO OFFERORS: The following information shall be addressed in a separate section of the Business Proposal entitled, "Earned Value Management System."

The offeror shall provide documentation that its proposed Earned Value Management System (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard-748 (current version at time of solicitation). a. If the offeror proposes to use a system that currently does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the guidelines. 1. The plan shall: i. Describe the EVMS the offeror intends to use in performance of the contract; ii. Distinguish between the offeror's existing management system and modifications proposed to meet the guidelines; iii. Describe the management system and its application in terms of the EVMS guidelines; iv. Describe the proposed procedure for application of the EVMS requirements to subcontractors;

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 106 of 112

v. Provide documentation describing the process and results, including Government participation if applicable, of any third-party evaluation or selfevaluation of the system's compliance with the EVMS guidelines; vi. Provide a schedule of events leading up to formal validation and Government acceptance of the offeror's EVMS, if the value of the offeror's proposal, including options, is $25 million or more. 2. The offeror shall provide information and assistance, as required by the Contracting Officer, to support review of the plan. 3. The Contracting Officer will review the offeror's EVMS implementation plan prior to contract award. 4. The offeror's EVMS plan must provide milestones indicating when the offeror anticipates that the EVMS will be compliant with the ANSVEIS Standard-748 guidelines. c. The offeror shall identify in its offer the subcontractors, or subcontracted effort if subcontractors have not been identified, to which the requirements of EVMS will be applied. Prior to contract award, the offeror and HHS shall agree on the subcontractors, or subcontracted effort, subject to the EVMS requirement. HHS will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR) prior to contract award. The offeror shall be compensated as set forth elsewhere in this solicitation for its preparation for and participation in the IBR.

d.

L.13

PROPOSAL INTENT

It is requested that if an offeror intends to submit a proposal to this solicitation that the attached Proposal Intent Form (Attachment #1) be completed and returned to the address indicated by the date listed on the cover page of this solicitation. The submission of the intent form is not binding on an offeror to submit a proposal, nor does the failure to submit the form prohibit an offeror from submitting a proposal. The purpose is to provide us with an estimated number of proposals to assist us in our planning and logistics for proposal reviews.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 107 of 112

SECTION M- EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD The Government intends to award to the offeror that presents the best value to the Government. Selection of an Offeror for Contract award will be based on an evaluation of proposals against 4 factors. These factors are 1) technical, 2) past performance 3) small disadvantaged business participation plan and 4) cost/price. Technical will receive paramount consideration in the selection of the Contractor for this acquisition and will be evaluated based on the evaluation criteria and assigned weights outlined below. Technical proposals will be evaluated by a technical committee that will also recommend acceptability or unacceptability of submitted proposals. Offerors who submit technically acceptable proposals will subsequently be evaluated on their past performance and their Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan. All evaluation factors, other than cost/price, when combined are significantly more important than cost/price alone. 1. Technical Weight

A.

Technical Approach 55 POINTS The offeror will be evaluated on how well the proposal demonstrates an understanding of the requirements and objectives of this acquisition, and the problems that are likely to be encountered, and an approach that demonstrates the contract requirements will be satisfied at a high level of quality. a. Technical Discussion (20 points) The proposal shall be evaluated on the reasonableness, clarity and feasibility of the technical approach, including: * provide evidence of overall plan for coordinating the HC and MPC handoff of materials and data files between contractors, particularly those occurring concurrently or in a linked manner; general approach to the quality and soundness of data collection; provide evidence of plan for monitoring and maintaining contractual response rates while minimizing burden on respondents; provide evidence of the soundness of the training plan which includes necessary expertise to perform abstraction and telephone data collection and expertise needed to train on abstraction and telephone data collection; provide evidence of how the systems for data collection and abstraction will insure data of high quality;

* *

*

*

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 108 of 112

*

provide evidence of integration of data collection methods and processing, data cleaning and data editing, data abstraction and statistical matching tasks; and provide evidence of the soundness of the data management plan.

* b.

Matching and Editing (15 points) * successful demonstration of the statistical and substantive soundness of the matching techniques proposed; successful demonstration of data review at various stages throughout the data collection process; successful demonstration of setting up and managing an onsite data editing shop; and successful demonstration of the statistical and substantive soundness of the data editing techniques proposed;

*

*

* c.

Quality Assurance Plan (20 points) The offeror`s Quality Assurance Plan shall be evaluated as to the degree that the offeror has control systems available to ensure satisfactory performance under the contract and to the extent to which the Quality Assurance Plan meets the criteria outlined in the SOW.

B.

Management Plan

20 POINTS

The management plan will be evaluated on the appropriateness of the organizational structure and management systems, their management of subcontractors/consultants, and/or other vendors their ability to handle multiple simultaneous tasks with competing needs, the personnel assigned to each task and the person-days proposed, the plan for ensuring availability of adequate staff, and the planned methods for assuring the successful completion of all tasks within the time and budget allocated. Naming conventions for documents and file deliveries should be developed so that all persons will have an understanding of what the deliverable includes. The project plan should have built in the necessary integration of work and compatibility of data files and other materials with AHRQ for the HC contractor as the two projects are intertwined. The Contractor shall use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) in the management of this contract that is consistent with ANSI/EIA-STD-748 guidelines.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 109 of 112

C.

Personnel

20 points

A Certified Project Manger must be part of the management team of the contractor. The contractor shall define and implement methods for selecting abstraction staff, both supervisory and non-supervisory, which will reliably predict quality performance of all abstraction activities. The criteria will include previous work experience, work samples, and education. Supervisory abstraction staff must have experience with medical billing records and must have performed billing record abstraction. The contractor shall define and implement methods for selecting data collection staff, both supervisory and non-supervisory, which will reliably predict quality performance of all data collection activities. The criteria will include previous work experience, work samples, and education. The data collection project management staff will be required to spend at least 80 percent of their time on site where the data collection is physically taking place to ensure adequate and proper management and supervision of the data collection activities. Project managers must be available on site at the data collection site during peak periods and if crisis arise. The contractor shall define and implement methods for selecting data coding and verification staff, both supervisory and non-supervisory, which will reliably predict quality performance of all data collection activities. The criteria will include previous work experience, work samples, and education.

The resumes of proposed key personnel and consultants will be evaluated for documented experience, educational background and training as they relate to the requirements of this acquisition. The availability of proposed staff and their designated responsibility on the project will be evaluated. Proposed staff expertise needs to match the criteria described in the Statement of Work. The MPC Project Director will be required to be onsite where the data collection physically takes place at least one full day every two weeks and at least one full day a week during critical or peak data collection periods. After award of the contract, all change in key staff have to be disclosed to the government and all key staff new hires have to be approved by the government. D. Facilities and Equipment 5 points

Offerors will evaluated on the adequacy of the resources available to complete the requirements of this acquisition including the adequacy of computer hardware and software, corporate resources, the availability of a staff trained in the complexities of collecting data and especially charge and payment data from medical providers, and the availability of facilities and work stations to support this effort. Data collection facilities must have office space for professional permanent data collection staff.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 110 of 112

Total (Technical Review)

100

2. Past Performance (TO BE RATED ONLY AFTER A DETERMINATION OF TECHNICAL ACCEPTABILITY OF THE OFFEROR`S PROPOSAL) The Government reserves the right to evaluate relevant past performance information not specifically provided by the offeror. The Government will assess the relative risks associated with the offeror. Performance risks are those associated with the offeror`s likelihood of success in performing the acquisition requirements as indicated by the offeror`s record of past performance. In evaluating past performance the Government, will consider the offeror`s effectiveness in quality of product or services; timeliness of performance; cost control; business practices; customer satisfaction, and key personnel past performance. NOTICE: Past Performance questionnaires are to be provided to the Contracts Office NO LATER than the closing date and time for receipt of proposals. It is the offeror`s responsibility to ensure that these documents are forwarded to Robert Zuhlke by email: Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov. Or Fax (301)427-1740. 3. Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Plan The evaluation will be based on an assessment of the degree to which the contractor has maximized participation of small disadvantaged businesses in the performance of this effort. 4. Business Proposal Cost/Price. Cost/Price analysis will be conducted. Proposals will be evaluated for cost reasonableness and cost realism. A cost realism analysis will be conducted to determine whether the estimated proposed cost elements are realistic for the work to be performed; reflect a clear understanding of the requirements; and are consistent with the unique methods of performance and materials described in the offeror's technical proposal. Proposed costs will be evaluated for reasonableness, allowability, and allocability. This analysis is intended to determine the degree to which proposed cost/price and fee, if applicable, are fair and reasonable.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 111 of 112

Subcontracting Plan. Subcontracting plans will be reviewed for adequacy, ensuring that the required information, goals and assurances are included. Plans will be reviewed to assess the extent to which the offeror expended a good faith effort to maximize opportunities for small business subcontracting. Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract. All information contained within the proposal will be evaluated to determine contractor responsibility.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Page 112 of 112

"Medical Expenditure Panel (MEPS) ญ Medical Provider Component (MPC)" RFP No. AHRQ-13-10001 Please review the attached request for proposal. Furnish the information requested below and return this page prior to the due stated on page 1 of this RFP. Your expression of intent is not binding but will greatly assist us in planning for the proposal evaluation.

PROPOSAL INTENT RESPONSE SHEET

[

] INTEND TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL

[ ] DO NOT INTEND TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

Contractor Name: ___________________________ Contractor Address: _____________________________ _____________________________ _____________________________

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment A

PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE PART ONE: INSTRUCTIONS The offeror listed below has submitted a proposal in response to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) Solicitation No. AHRQ-13-10001, entitled Medical Evaluation Panel Survey ญ Medical Provider Component. Past performance is an important part of the evaluation criteria for this acquisition, so input from previous customers of the offeror is important. This office would greatly appreciate you taking the time to complete this form. This information is to be provided to Robert Zuhlke, the AHRQ Contract Specialist and is NOT to be disclosed to the offeror either verbally or in writing. Please provide an honest assessment and return to AHRQ to the address shown below, no later than January 10, 2013. If you have any questions, please contact Robert Zuhlke at Robert.Zuhlke@ahrq.hhs.gov. Robert Zuhlke Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Division of Contracts Management 540 Gaither Road Rockville, Maryland 20850 FAX: (301) 427-1740

NAME OF OFFEROR:_____________________________________ ADDRESS:_____________________________________________ _____________________________________________

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment B

Contractor Performance Form

1. 2.

Name of Contractor:______________________________ Address:_________________________________________ _________________________________________ Contract/Grant Number: _______________________________________ Contract/Grant Value (Base Plus Options): ________________________ Contract/Grant Award Date: ____________________________________ Contract/Grant Completion Date: ________________________________ Type of Contract/Grant: (Check all that apply) ( )FP ( )FPI ( )FP-EPA ( ) Award Fee (X) CPFF-Completion ( ) CPFF-Term ( ) CPIF ( ) CPAF ( ) IO/IQ ( ) BOA ( ) Requirements ( ) Labor-Hour ( )T&M ( ) SBSA ( )8(a) ( )SBIR ( ) Sealed Bid( )Negotiated( )Competitive ( )Non-Competitive Description of Requirement:

3. 4. 5. 6. 7.

8.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment B

CONTRACTOR'S PERFORMANCE RATING Ratings: Summarize contractor performance and circle in the column on the right the number which corresponds to the performance rating for each rating category. Please see reverse page for explanation of rating scale. Quality of Product or Service Comments 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 1 2 3 4 5

Cost Control

Comments

Timeliness of Performance

Comments

Business Relations

Comments

Customer Satisfaction - Is/was the Contractor committed to customer satisfaction? Yes Would you use this Contractor again? Reason: NAME OF EVALUATOR: ____________________________PHONE#:_______________ TITLE OF EVALUATOR: ________________________________________ Yes No

No ;

SIGNATURE OF EVALUATOR:___________________________________DATE:_____________________ MAILING ADDRESS: _____________________________________

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment B

________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ Rating Guidelines: Summarize contractor performance in each of the rating areas. Assign each area a rating 0(Unsatisfactory), 1(Poor), 2(Fair), 3(Good), 4(Excellent), 5(Outstanding). Use the following instructions as guidance in making these evaluations.

Quality -Compliance with contract requirements -Accuracy of reports -Technical excellence

Cost Control -Within budget (over/runder target costs) -Current, accurate, and complete billings -Relationship of negotiated costs to actual -Cost efficiencies -Change orders issue

Timeliness of Performance -Met interim milestones -Reliable -Responsive to technical direction -Completed on time, including wrap-up and contract adm -No liquidated damages assessed

Business Relation -Effective management -Businesslike correspondence -Responsive to contract requirements -Prompt notification of problems -Reasonable/ cooperativeFlexible -Pro-active -Effective small/small disadvantaged business subcontracting program Response to inquiries, technical/service/ administrative issues is not effective

0-unsatisfactory

Nonconformances are jeopardizing the achievement of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources

Ability to manage cost issues is jeopardizing performance of contract requirements, despite use of Agency resources

Delays are jeopardizing the achievement of contract requirements, despite use of Agency`s resources

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment B

1-Poor

Overall compliance requires major Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements Overall compliance requires minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements

Ability to manage cost issues requires major Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements Ability to manage cost issues requires minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements Management of cost issues does not impact achievement of contract requirements There are no cost management issues

Delays require major Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements

Response to inquiries, technical/service/ administrative issues is marginally effective

2-Fair

Delays require minor Agency resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements

Response to inquiries, technical/service/ administrative issues is somewhat effective

3-Good

Overall compliance does not impact achievement of contract requirements There are no quality problems

Delays do not impact achievement of contract requirements

Response to inquiries, technical/service/ administrative issues is usually effective Response to inquiries, technical/service/ administrative issues is effective

4-Excellent

There are no delays

5-Outstanding. The Contractor has demonstrated an outstanding performance level. It is expected that this rating will be used in those rare circumstances where Contractor performance clearly exceeds the performance levels described as Excellent.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment B

Sample format for cost proposal Direct Labor: No.

Title/Position

Hours

Rate

Cost 0 0 0 0 0

Total Direct Labor Fringe Benefits: XX% x Total Direct Labor Total Labor & Fringe Overhead: Place rate on the line below:

0 0

0 Consultants No. of days x Daily Rate for each Expertise Required Travel: Transportation (air, ground, local) Per Diem (No. of days x rate) Total Travel Other Direct Costs: Total Other Direct Cost Subcontracts(total here by sub; attch pgs for detail at same level as prime) Rate 0

SUBTOTAL G&A Expense - (if applicable) % of subtotal Total Cost Fixed Fee Rate: place rate in column under rate TOTAL ESTIMATED COST AND FEE This procurement will require approximately ____________ person years effort per year. (This should include Professional and Support)

0 0 0 Rate 0.00% 0 0

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment C

CERTIFICATE OF CURRENT COST OR PRICING DATA (FAR 15.406-2)
(When cost or pricing data are required in accordance with FAR 15.406-2, the Contracting Officer will request that the offeror complete, execute, and submit to the Contracting Officer a certification in the format shown in the following Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data. The certification shall be submitted only at the time negotiations are concluded. Offerors should complete the certificate and return it when requested by the Contracting Officer.)

This is to certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data (as defined in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and required under FAR subsection 15.403-4) submitted, either actually or by specific identification in writing, to the Contracting Officer or to the Contracting Officer's representative in support of ___________________________* are accurate, complete, and current as of _____________________________.** This certification includes the cost or pricing data supporting any advance agreements and forward pricing rate agreements between the offeror and the Government that are part of the proposal.

Firm__________________________________________________________________ Signature______________________________________________________________ Name_________________________________________________________________ Title__________________________________________________________________ Date of Execution***_____________________________________________________
* Identify the proposal, request for price adjustment, or other submission involved, giving the appropriate identifying number (e.g., RFP No.) ** Insert the day, month, and year when price negotiations were concluded and price agreement was reached, or, if applicable, an earlier date agreed upon between the parties that is as close as practicable to the date of agreement on price. *** Insert the day, month, and year of signing, which should be as close as practicable to the date when the price negotiations were concluded and the contract price was agreed to.

(End of Certificate)

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment D

Attachment #1 Privacy Act System of Records Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) SYSTEM NUMBER: 09-35-0002 SYSTEM NAME: Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) and National Medical Expenditure Survey 2 (NMES 2), HHS/AHRQ/CFACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION: None. SYSTEM LOCATION: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Center for Financing, Access, and Cost Trends, 540 Gaither Road, Rockville, MD, 20850 CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM: (1) Individuals and members of households selected by probability sampling techniques to be representative of the civilian non-institutionalized population of the United States; health care providers, staff responding on behalf of health insurers and the employers of members of sampled households; (2) residents and next-of-kin of such residents of nursing and personal care homes, selected by probability sampling techniques to be representative of residents of such homes, and facilities and the staff responding on behalf of such facilities. CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM: Records containing information on: (1) The incidence of illness and accidental injuries, prevalence of diseases and impairments, the extent of disability, the use, expenditures and sources of payment for health care services, and other characteristics of individuals obtained in household interviews (demographic and socioeconomic characteristics such as age, marital status, education, occupation and family income) and the names, telephone numbers and addresses of the responding staffs of health care providers, health insurers, and employers; (2) the utilization of long-term care, nursing home care, care in personal care homes through data on residents (demographic and social characteristics, health status and charges and sources of payment for care); through data facility characteristics (general characteristics, certification, services offered and corresponding expenses), and through data on next-of-kin or representative of residents (demographic and social characteristics, health status, and expenditures for health care Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment 1

of residents); and (3) Medicare claims records of members of sampled households and of sampled residents of nursing and personal care homes. AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM: Section 913 and 306 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act (42 U.S.C. 299b-2 and 242k(b)). Sections 924(c) and 308(d) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 299c-3(c) and 242m(d)) provide authority for protecting restrictions on identifiable information about individuals. PURPOSE(S): The data are used in aggregated form for statistical and health services research purposes respecting analysis and evaluation of health care costs, and the accessibility, planning, organization, distribution, technology, utilization, quality, and financing of health services and systems. ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES OF USERS AND THE PURPOSES OF SUCH USES: The Department has contracted with private firms for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, aggregating, or otherwise refining records in this system. Relevant records are collected by and/or disclosed to such contractors. The contractors are required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards with respect to such records. POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORING, RETRIEVING, ACCESSING, RETAINING, AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM: STORAGE: File folders, magnetic tapes, CD-ROM and secure network servers. RETRIEVABILITY: Information can be retrieved by respondent name and address. However, this information is not stored in routinely used analytic files. SAFEGUARDS: AHRQ and its contractors implement personnel, physical, and procedural safeguards as follows: 1. Authorized Users: Access is limited to persons authorized and needing to use the records, including project directors, contract officers, interviewers, health care researchers and analysts, statisticians, statistical clerks and data entry staff on the staffs of AHRQ and the MEPS contractors. 2. Physical safeguards: The hard-copy records are stored in locked safes, locked Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment 1

files, and locked offices when not in use. Computer terminals used to process identifiable data are located in secured areas and are accessible only to authorized users. Automated back-up files are stored in locked, fire proof safes. 3. Procedural safeguards: All employees of AHRQ and contractor personnel with access to AHRQ records are required, as a condition of employment, to sign an affidavit, acknowledging AHRQ's confidentiality statute and penalty provision and binding themselves to nondisclosure of individually identifiable information. Periodic training sessions are conducted to reinforce the statutorily-based confidentiality restrictions. Actual identifiers are maintained in separate files linked only if there is a specific need as authorized by the System Manager. Data stored in computers both at AHRQ and the contractor sites are accessed through the use of passwords/keywords unique to each user and changed at least every 45 days. An automated audit trail will be maintained. Contractors who maintain records in this system are instructed to make no further disclosure of the records other than those requested by AHRQ/CFACT. Privacy Act requirements and the restrictions of 42 U.S.C. 242m(d) are specifically included in contracts for survey, research and data processing activities related to this system. The Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) project directors, contract officers and project officers oversee compliance with these confidentially and security requirements. 4. These safeguards are in accordance with chapter 45-13, "Safeguarding Records Contained in Systems of Records," of the HHS General Administration Manual, supplementary chapter PHS hf. 45-13; Part 6, "ADP Systems Security," of the HHS ADP Systems Manual, and the National Bureau of Standards Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS Pub. 41 and FIPS Pub. 31). RETENTION AND DISPOSAL: Hard-copy records will be burned or shredded following verification that such data were correctly entered into a machine readable format. SYSTEM MANAGER(S) AND ADDRESS: Director, Division of Survey Operations, CFACT/AHRQ, 540 Gaither Road, Rockville, MD. 20850 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE: To determine if a record exists, write to the System Manager, giving your full name and address. RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES: The system is exempt from the requirements of the Privacy Act; however, a subject individual may be granted access to his/her records at the System's Manager's discretion. Positive identification is required from anyone seeking such access.

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment 1

CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES: If access has been granted and some information is being contested, contact the System Manager and reasonably identify the record, specify the contested information, and state the corrective action sought, with supporting information to show how the record is inaccurate, incomplete, untimely, or irrelevant. RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES: Respondents in the survey samples including: members of households, physicians, hospitals, health insurers, employers, staff of nursing and personal care homes, the next-of-kin of residents of such homes and facilities, and Systems 09-70-0005, Medicare Bill File (Statistics), HHS/HCFA/BDMS. SYSTEMS EXEMPTED FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE ACT: With respect to this system of records, exemption has been granted from the requirements contained in subsections 552a(c) (3), (d) (1) through (4) and (e) (4) (G) and (H), in accordance with the provisions of subsection 552a(k) (4) of the Privacy Act of 1974. Current as of November 2006

Internet Citation: AHRQ Privacy Act System of Records Notice: Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS). Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD. http://www.ahrq.gov/news/privacyact/sorn/meps.htm

Request for Proposal MEPS - MPC

AHRQ-13-10001 Attachment 1

