





PART 1—THE SCHEDULE



SECTION B—SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS



ARTICLE B.1.  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES



Independently, and not as an agent of the Government or SAIC-Frederick, Inc. (SAIC-F), the Subcontractor shall furnish services, qualified personnel, materials, equipment, and facilities not otherwise provided under the terms of this Subcontract, as needed, to promote further adoption of caTissue Suite, encouraging data sharing on tissue specimen collections, facilitating tissue sampling distributions and enhancing collaboration among researchers and clinicians regarding tissue samples and related information.  The primary focus of this release will improve interoperability with other caBIG® products; integrate with assay systems like caArray, caBIG® Clinical Trials Suite (CCTS), NCI Enterprise Services (NES), and the Biospecimen Research Database; improve interoperability by implementing the Common Biorepository Model (CMB); improve grid compatibility, quality, performance and scalability by re-factoring and re-architecting the existing system.



ARTICLE B.2.  TYPE OF CONTRACT



This is a Firm Fixed Price contract as described in FAR Part 16.202-1.  A firm-fixed price contract provides for a price that is not subject to any adjustment based on the Subcontractor’s cost experience.



ARTICLE B.3.  PRICES/COSTS



The total Firm Fixed Price for this effort is $____________ (Upon award, see Attachment 4 - Price Schedule). 





ARTICLE B.4.  ADVANCE UNDERSTANDINGS



Items Unallowable Unless Otherwise Provided

Notwithstanding the clause, ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT, incorporated in this subcontract, unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the costs of the following items or activities shall be unallowable as direct costs:



Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property;

Special re-arrangement or alteration of facilities;

Purchase or lease of any item of general purpose office furniture or office equipment regardless of dollar value.  (General purpose equipment is defined as any items of personal property, which are usable for purposes other than research, such as office equipment and furnishings, sensitive equipment, etc.); unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule.

Travel to attend general scientific meetings, whether at domestic or foreign locations; unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule;

Consultant expenses; and

Subcontracts; unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule.



















Items to be Furnished to the Offeror

Please refer to Developer RFP for information that will help Offeror(s) understand the current caTissue Suite and other related products.



Travel Costs

Travel including lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses shall be allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed the amounts allowed for Federal employees and as provided in Attachment 4.  The Subcontractor, therefore, shall invoice and be reimbursable for all travel costs in accordance with FAR Subpart 31.205-46.  All required travel not identified in the approved budget must be preapproved by the contracting officer before costs may be incurred.



Confidentiality

The Subcontractor shall address the potential sensitivity of the information collected, information security issues, local Institutional Review Board (IRB) requirements, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 in its performance of subcontract requirements.



Final regulations issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) provide privacy and security standards that must be observed in the handling of patient data resulting from biomedical research.  HIPAA privacy standards will be used to establish safeguards and restrictions for the use and disclosure of research records.  HIPAA security standards will be used to help cancer centers implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect electronic health information.  Improper use or disclosure of sensitive information under the rules may be subject to criminal or civil sanctions prescribed in HIPAA.



SECTION C—DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES



The primary objective of caTissue 1.2 is to promote further adoption of caTissue Suite, encouraging data sharing on tissue specimen collections, facilitating tissue distribution and enhancing collaboration among researchers and clinicians regarding tissue samples and related information. 



The primary focus of this release will improve interoperability with other caBIG® products; integrate with assay systems like caArray, caBIG Clinical Trials Suite (CCTS), NCI Enterprise Services (NES), and the Biospecimen Research Database; improve interoperability by implementing the Common Biorepository Model CBM); improve grid compatibility, quality, performance and scalability by refactoring and re-architecting the existing system. 



To be more specific, the objectives of this initiative include:

Enhancement and maintenance

Refactoring, re-architecting to provide a set of robust, flexible and high performance services.

Provide more grid services on top of existing grid data services

Improve performance of existing grid services

Improve the capacity and scalability of the existing system

Address grid compatibility of Dynamic Extensions.

Interoperability

One of the main goals of this initiative is to improve the interoperability of caTissue and other applications. As part of this effort, caTissue will provide a suite of services like Biospecimen Identifier Service and Biospecimen Service; implement and consume other services like COPPA. caTissue and other applications such as caArray, CTS PSC/C3PR, BRD will utilize these services to communicate and integrate with each other. 



[See Attachment 6 for Complete Content of RFP Statement of Objectives]



SECTION D—PACKAGING AND MARKING



ARTICLE D.1.  PACKAGING AND SHIPPING



Any deliverables required under this subcontract, shall be packaged, marked, and shipped in accordance with Government specifications.  The Subcontractor shall guarantee that all required materials be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition.



SECTION E—INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



ARTICLE E.1.  INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



Inspection and acceptance will be performed at the National Cancer Institute - Frederick (NCI-Frederick), Frederick, Maryland.



General Acceptance Criteria 

In addition to specific acceptance criteria as provided in the RFP Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6), general quality measures, as set forth below, will be applied to each deliverable received from the Subcontractor under this statement of work.



Accuracy – Deliverables shall be accurate in presentation, technical content, and adherence to accepted elements of style.

Clarity – Deliverables shall be clear and concise. Any/All diagrams shall be easy to understand and be relevant to the supporting narrative.

Consistency to Requirements – All Deliverables must satisfy the requirements of this statement of work.

Timeliness – Deliverables shall be submitted on or before the due date specified in this statement of work or the PMP, or submitted in accordance with a later scheduled date determined by the SAIC-F COTR.

User acceptance – User acceptance for software products will be documented by stakeholders’ signature(s) on software design documents and test plan, as well as completed software user testing documentation.  The intent of involving stakeholders at all stages of design and testing is to ensure the software performs as per their specific needs and meets the documented design requirements.  These signatures will represent that the relevant stakeholders have (1) participated in the requirements generation, test design, and user testing;(2) ensured the software performs according to the parameters specified in the design documents; and (3) properly executed the approved test plan carried out at their site.

Subcontractor User Acceptance – User acceptance for Workspace/Working Group software and solution development products will be documented by Subcontractors’ signature(s) on a sign-off page for source code.  These signatures will represent that the Subcontractor:

Conducted software or solution development according to defined processes.

Conducted quality assurance and quality control activities (e.g., white-box and unit testing) during the development process.

Conducted software defect reporting and responded to software defect reports from the Adopter.



C.	Specific Acceptance Criteria



For all deliverables, the COTR will perform an evaluation for each deliverable using specific acceptance criteria as provided in the RFP Statement of Objectives (Attachment 5) under Section 6.2.3. 



D.	Deliverable Review and Acceptance Process



 Notice of approval/rejection will be sent to the contractor within 30 calendar days of receipt of the deliverable.  If deliverables meet the acceptance criteria, the SAIC-F Contracting Officer will issue the Subcontractor a written acceptance through email that acknowledges both receipt and overall acceptance of the deliverable.  Irrespective of payment status for subject deliverable, Subcontractor should not assume acceptance has been made without formal notification from the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.  If deliverables do not meet the acceptance criteria, all issues will be described unambiguously and sent to the Subcontractor via email.  The Subcontractor will then address each issue or state why the issue may not be addressed and resubmit the deliverable.  Resubmitted deliverables will be reviewed within 15 calendar days.



Absence of any comments by the SAIC-F CO will not relieve the Subcontractor of the responsibility for complying with requirements in this statement of work.  Final approval and acceptance of documentation required herein shall be by letter of approval by the SAIC-F CO.  The Subcontractor shall not construe any letter of acknowledgment of receipt material as a waiver of review or as an acknowledgment that the material is in conformance with this.



SECTION F—DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



ARTICLE F.1.  PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The Period of Performance of this Subcontract shall be eighteen (18) months from the date of award.

All work defined in the Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6) is to be completed in the initial eighteen (18) month period of performance according to the plan submitted by the Subcontractor.



Option to Extend the Term of the Subcontract



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. may extend the term of this Subcontract for the purposes of adding additional functionality beyond that defined in the Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6) by written notice to the Subcontractor within 60 calendar days of the Subcontract end date.  However, the preliminary 60 day notice does not commit SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to exercising the option.



If the term is extended, the decision to exercise the option will be based on review of the proposed functionality for the option period.   Upon request, the Subcontractor will be required to submit a proposal for that functionality as a deliverable prior to the expiration of the eighteen (18) month base period.    If the additional functionality deliverable is accepted, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. will exercise the option by  bilateral modification. 



If SAIC-Frederick, Inc. exercises its option pursuant to this option clause, the period of performance will be increased as listed below:





ARTICLE F.2.  PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The majority of the work will be performed at the vendor’s facilities.   Specific tasks, such as testing and demonstrations, will be performed at other locations determined by the SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative.



ARTICLE F.3.  DELIVERIES



Satisfactory performance of the final subcontract shall be deemed to occur upon written acceptance  by the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer.



Copies of all reports identified herein and attached shall be submitted to the following:









ARTICLE F.3.  STOP WORK ORDERS



This subcontract incorporates FAR Clause 52.242-15 Stop Work Order by reference, with the same force and effect as if it were given in full text.  The full text of the clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .



SECTION G—SUBCONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA



ARTICLE G.1.  SUBCONTRACT REPRESENTATIVES



Contracting Officer.  The following individual is designated as the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer:



Eugene B. Anderson

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B

Frederick, MD  21702-1201

Phone:  301-228-4008; Fax:  301-228-4037

E-mail:  



Only the Contracting Officer has authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes to the Statement of Work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the Subcontractor of any costs incurred during the performance of this subcontract; or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this subcontract.  All changes to the Statement of Work will be accomplished by bilateral modification to the subcontract.



Only the Contracting Officer as named above shall have the authority to prescribe changes to this subcontract or provide direction for which the Subcontractor will seek reimbursement.  Any costs incurred by the Subcontractor not delineated herein or without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer are incurred at the Subcontractor’s significant risk of non-payment. 



Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).  The following individual is designated as the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR and is authorized to provide technical guidance and otherwise represent SAIC-Frederick as stated herein:



		Dr. Michelle Lee

		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		8424 Helgerman Court

		Gaithersburg, MD  20877

		Phone:  301-402-7476

		E-mail:  



The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative/Technical Project Manager is responsible for: (1) monitoring the Subcontractor’s technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the Contracting Officer changes in requirements; (2) interpreting the Statement of Work and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required; (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this subcontract; and (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance



Neither the COTR nor any person or entity other than the Contracting Officer possess any authority, implied or apparent, to provide direction that may cause or influence the Subcontractor to incur additional costs for which reimbursement may be sought.  Any costs incurred by the Subcontractor not delineated herein or without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer are incurred at the Subcontractor’s significant risk of non-payment.



Subcontracts Specialist.  The following individual has been designated as the SAIC-Frederick Subcontracts Specialist for purposes of administering, processing, and handling contractual documentation:



			Kimberly A. Iman

			SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B 

Frederick, Maryland 21702-1201 

Phone:	301-228-4033

Fax:	301-228-4037

E-mail:  



Subcontractor Authorized Representative(s).  The following individual(s) is the designated representative of the Company / Institution: 



TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR



Subcontractor Authorized Invoice Administrator.  The following individual(s) is responsible for preparation and submittal of invoice(s):



TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR







ARTICLE G.2.  KEY PERSONNEL



Pursuant to the Key Personnel clause incorporated in this subcontract, the following individual(s) are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder and shall not be re-assigned or removed without the concurrence of the Contracting Officer:



	

ARTICLE G.3.  INVOICE SUBMISSION



A.	Payment terms begin after acceptance of proper invoice (see Attachment 2 – SAIC-Frederick Invoice Instructions) and shall be submitted 30-days following the submittal of associated deliverable as prescribed at ARTICLE B.3. PRICES/COSTS.  Invoices are to be submitted in U.S. Dollars.



	Invoices may be submitted in one of two ways:



(1)	An original and one (1) copy may be mailed to the following designated payment office:

		

		ATTN:  Ms. Leasa Mercer

		NCI-Frederick Cancer Research & Development Center

		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		P. O. Box B

		Frederick, Maryland  21702-1201



OR



(2)	Invoices may be submitted electronically to .  All e-mail submissions must include the Subcontractor name, subcontract number, and invoice number in the subject line of the e-mail.



B.	Inquiries regarding payment of invoices shall be directed to the attention of Kim Iman at 301-228-4033.



C.	To expedite payment of invoices, it is essential that the Subcontractor provide sufficient data to support costs invoiced. 



D.	Payment shall be considered made on the date on which a check for such payment is dated.



ARTICLE G.4.  GOVERNMENT PROPERTY



All purchases of equipment regardless of value must be approved in advance of purchase and reported, with receipts attached, on the coinciding invoice.  It is required that a Report of Capitalized Non-Expendable Equipment be completed for all equipment purchases and also submitted with coinciding invoice (see Attachment 4).  All equipment purchased for work in support of this subcontract that is reimbursed under the subcontract shall remain the property of the U.S. Federal Government unless further determination is made through the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.







SECTION H—SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS



ARTICLE H.1.  PUBLICATION



When publishing, or submitting for publication, in scientific, peer-reviewed or other scholarly publications, the Subcontractor shall acknowledge the support of the National Institutes of Health whenever publicizing the work under this contract in any media by including an acknowledgment substantially as follows:

 

“This project has been funded in whole or in part with Federal funds from the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, under Contract No. HHSN261200800001E.  The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Department of Health and Human Services, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.”



For Abstracts: (due to space limitations) “Funded by NCI Contract No. HHSN261200800001E”



ARTICLE H.2.  PRESS RELEASES AND PUBLICITY



No press releases or publicity (hereinafter ‘publicity’) pertaining to this subcontract including, but not limited to, press releases, public announcements, advertising material and other documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money regardless of media, shall be issued by Subcontractor without the prior review and written consent of the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.  When authorized by SAIC-F, the publicity issued by the Subcontractor shall clearly state: 



1.	the percentage of the total cost of the program or project which will be financed with Federal money.

2.	the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or program.

3.	the percentage and dollar amount of the total cost of the project or program that will be financed by nongovernmental sources in accordance with Public Law 109-149, Title V, Section 506.

4.	an acknowledgement substantially stated as follows:



	“This project has been funded in whole or in part with Federal funds from the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, under Contract No. HHSN261200800001E.  The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Department of Health and Human Services, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.”



ARTICLE H.3.  RESERVED



ARTICLE H.4.  REPORTING MATTERS INVOLVING FRAUD, WASTE AND ABUSE



Anyone who becomes aware of the existence of fraud, waste and abuse in NIH funded programs is encouraged to report such matters to the HHS Inspector General’s Office in writing or on the Inspector General’s Hotline.  The toll free number is 1-800-HHS-TIPS (1-800-447-8477).  All telephone calls will be handled confidentially.  The e-mail address is  and the mailing address is:



		Office of Inspector General

		Department of Health and Human Services

		TIPS HOTLINE

		P.O. Box 23489

		Washington, D.C.  20026



Information regarding procedural matters is contained in the NIH Manual Chapter 1754, which is available on .



ARTICLE H.5. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST



During the performance of this Subcontract, the Subcontractor is prohibited from engaging in similar work or services adverse to the interests of SAIC-Frederick, Inc./NCI.  The Subcontractor also certifies that no services rendered under any agreement during the term of this contract will be adverse to the interest of SAIC- Frederick, Inc./NCI.  The Subcontractor also certifies that no financial, contractual, organizational, or other interest exists relating to the work under this agreement that would constitute an Organizational Conflict of Interest or otherwise cause the Subcontractor to be unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice, impair objectivity in performing the work, or create an unfair competitive advantage for any entity wherein the Subcontractor has an interest.  The Federal statutes and regulations concerning conflict of interest carry criminal penalties for violation.  The Subcontractor is personally responsible for identifying any such conflict of interest, or any relationship or actions that might give the appearance that a conflict of interest exists or could reasonably be viewed as affecting the Subcontractor’s objectivity in performing the work under this agreement.  By signature the Subcontractor certifies the understanding of the above and that no Organizational Conflict of Interest exists that would affect this Subcontract.  The Subcontractor also indemnifies or otherwise holds harmless SAIC-Frederick, Inc./NCI should an Organizational Conflict of Interest become apparent (not previously disclosed) during the life of this contract.



ARTICLE H.6.  PROHIBITION ON SUBCONTRACTOR INVOLVEMENT WITH TERRORIST ACTIVITIES



The Subcontractor acknowledges that U.S. Executive Orders and Laws, including but not limited to E.O. 13224 and Public Law, prohibit transactions with, and the provision of resources and support to individuals and organizations associated with terrorism.  It is the legal responsibility of the Subcontractor to ensure compliance with these Executive Orders and Laws.  This clause must be included in all subcontracts issued under this contract.



ARTICLE H.7. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND CERTIFICATES



The Subcontractor must provide Certificates of Insurance, proving:



Commercial General Liability coverage

Errors & Omissions coverage

Professional Liability coverage

Property Damage coverage

Automobile Liability coverage

All Risk coverage

Worker’s Compensation coverage

Foreign Workers’ Compensation coverage (including Defense Base Act coverage)



The Certificate of Insurance shall certify that the Subcontractor is insured for the period of performance of this Subcontract.  Further, the Certificate of Insurance shall name SAIC-Frederick, Inc. as “Additionally Named Insured”.  The contract number and name of the project shall be included in the block naming SAIC-Frederick, Inc. as Additional Named Insured.



If at any time the period of performance of this Subcontract the insurance coverage lapses or is cancelled, the Subcontractor will immediately notify SAIC-Frederick, Inc.





ARTICLE H.8. ADDITIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DELIVERABLES



DEFINITIONS



“caBIG® Community” – all participants in caBIG®, including, without limitation, all Subcontractors of SAIC-F for caBIG®, other contractors of the NCI and their Subcontractors, and persons participating on a volunteer basis in caBIG® 



“caBIG® Community Website” – the website () /for caBIG® Participants and others needing specific information about caBIG® activities and products 



“Model caBIG® Software License” – in its current form and posted on the caBIG® Community Website, which may be accessed at the URL below, and as may be updated from time to time, the current version of which will always be the relevant document. 







“caBIG® Participants” – individual members of the caBIG® Community



“Deliverables” - all items first produced, developed, delivered or used in connection with development or adoption activities under this Subcontract, including, but not limited to, datasets, data files, software, (including application programming interfaces (APIs) and middleware), source code, object code, documentation, reports and other data (including Proprietary Software and Proprietary Technical Data for which separate approval has not been obtained  pursuant to the requirements below).  



“Proprietary Software” – Subcontractor or third party proprietary software applications that are not developed under this Subcontract



“Proprietary Technical Data” -- proprietary third party technical data or technical data proprietary to Subcontractor



“Software Deliverables” – collectively, caBIG® Software and caBIG® Software Modifications



“caBIG® Software” – all source code, object code and related documentation that is funded, developed or delivered under this Subcontract



“Technical Data Deliverables” – all data except for Software Deliverables that are produced, developed, delivered or utilized in connection with development, testing, adoption or other activities performed under this Subcontract.



RIGHTS IN DATA 



It is specifically understood that an important Government purpose for the work to be performed under the Subcontract is world-wide, free distribution of all Deliverables under the rights granted pursuant to the Subcontract. The Subcontractor is hereby given Contracting Officer’s advanced approval (to the extent possible), as required in FAR 52.227-14 Rights in Data, to assert copyright in Software Deliverables first produced in the performance of the Subcontract, provided, however, that upon the request of the Contracting Officer, Subcontractor agrees to assign copyright to the Government when the assignment of such copyright is necessary in order for the Government to protect its rights (by way of example but not limitation, in the event a third party were to allege copyright infringement the Government would want copyright ownership in order to have standing). Subcontractor grants to the Government, SAIC-F, the caBIG® Community, and the public, “unlimited rights” in all Deliverables as defined in FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data – General. “Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so.



In addition to FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data – General and the Government purpose noted above, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Subcontract, Subcontractor also agrees to grant to the Government, SAIC-F, the caBIG® Community, and the public a nonexclusive, worldwide, perpetual, fully paid up, no-charge, irrevocable, transferable and royalty-free right and license in its rights in all Deliverables, including any copyright or patent rights therein, to: (a) use, install, disclose, access, operate, execute, reproduce, copy, modify, translate, market, publicly display, publicly perform, and prepare derivative works of Deliverables in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so; (b) make, have made, use, practice, sell, offer for sale, import, and/or otherwise dispose of Deliverables (or portions thereof); (c) distribute and have distributed to and by third parties Deliverables and any modifications and derivative works thereof; and (d) sublicense the foregoing rights set out in (a), (b) and (c) to third parties, including the right to license such rights to further third parties. Proprietary Technical Data and modifications or extensions of Proprietary Software not funded, developed or used in connection with the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions set forth above. 



GENERAL.  



Delivery And Disclosure.  Deliverables shall be delivered in electronic format to SAIC-F and the NCI-CBIIT by upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work (Attachments  6).  All Software Deliverables that are not source code must be accompanied by source code (if applicable).  Furthermore, Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that all Deliverables may be made available by NCI-CBIIT to the caBIG® Community and the public by posting on the caBIG® Community Website. 



License To All Deliverables.  All Deliverables shall be available subject to the provisions of this Article H. 



Patent Rights.  Pursuant to FAR 52.227-11, the Government shall have a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States any subject invention relating to any Deliverable.  It is not anticipated that Subcontractor will file patent applications on Deliverables, but if it does, Subcontractor agrees that it will permit any Deliverables covered by patent applications or issued patents to be used for research or educational purposes by the caBIG® Community and the public without charge under terms that are consistent with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Principles for Recipients of NIH Research Grants and Contracts on Obtaining and Disseminating Biomedical Research Resources, 64 Fed. Reg. 72090 (Dec. 23, 1999).



SOFTWARE DELIVERABLES.  



Delivery of Software Deliverables. All Software Deliverables shall be delivered by Subcontractor through upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work (Attachments 6), and shall be available pursuant to the terms of this Article H.8 and in accordance with the following additional conditions:



Subcontractor and its end-users are not authorized by the Subcontract to incorporate Software Deliverables into Proprietary Software. 



In addition to distribution by NCI CBIIT on the caBIG® Community Website, Subcontractor may distribute versions of Software Deliverables in its possession, but ONLY so long as such distribution is made under the terms of the caBIG® Model Open Source Software License or a substantially equivalent agreement that is approved by the Contracting Officer.  Subcontractor hereby acknowledges and agrees that Subcontractor has reviewed the terms of the caBIG® Model Open Source Software License and understands the scope of said license (including the scope of patent rights granted therein). 



Subcontractor and its end-users are expressly not authorized by this Subcontract to use any trademarks, service names, logos or product names owned by the NCI or caBIG® Participants. It is understood that such use may be permitted under a separate license agreement granted by the NCI or caBIG® Participant to Subcontractor.



The names “The National Cancer Institute”, “NCI”, “Science Applications International Corporation,” “SAIC”, “SAIC-Frederick, Inc.” and any names which Subcontractor may use to refer to caBIG® Software and caBIG® Software Modifications shall not be used by Subcontractor or its end-users to endorse or promote products derived from caBIG® Software or caBIG® Software Modifications.



Proprietary Software.  



(1)	Proprietary Software shall not be used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract unless prior written permission is granted by the Contracting Officer to use or deliver such Proprietary Software and the terms of a license applicable to such Proprietary Software have been determined in advance. 



(2)	Any Proprietary Software which is delivered with the Contracting Officer’s approval shall be segregated from all caBIG® Software that modifies or extends such Proprietary Software and is   delivered in performance of the Subcontract or, if it is not, the entire product, including both the Proprietary Software and any caBIG® Software along with source code, shall be delivered by upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work, and subject to the provisions of this Article H.8.  Subcontractor will be responsible for obtaining the rights set forth above to Proprietary Software owned or controlled by third parties that is used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract.



(3)	Modifications or extensions of Proprietary Software not funded and developed under the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions of this Article H.8.



TECHNICAL DATA DELIVERABLES



All Technical Data Deliverables shall be made available pursuant to the terms of this Article H.8 and in accordance with the following additional conditions:



Subcontractor must submit a data sharing plan with any Technical Data Deliverables that are subject to requirements set forth below in Article H.8.F. 



Attribution of the source of the Technical Data Deliverable shall be published with the Technical Data Deliverable.



(b)	Proprietary Technical Data.



No Proprietary Technical Data may be used in connection with Subcontractor’s performance under the Subcontract if such data are subject to restrictions that conflict with the provisions defined above UNLESS Subcontractor first receives written permission from the Contracting Officer to do so. Any Proprietary Technical Data that is used or delivered without prior permission from the Contracting Officer shall be subject to the provisions defined above.  Subcontractor will be responsible for obtaining the rights to Proprietary Technical Data owned or controlled by third parties that is used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract as defined above.



Proprietary Technical Data that are not collected, developed or used in connection with Subcontractor’s performance under the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions of this Article H.

 

OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.  All Deliverables shall be provided or made available by Subcontractor in accordance with all applicable federal and state legal, regulatory and policy requirements, including, without limitation, HIPAA, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules, the Common Rule, FDA Regulations concerning the Informed Consent of Human Subjects, other FDA regulatory requirements, state privacy laws, and institutional review board (IRB) requirements.



ARTICLE H.9. INFORMATION SECURITY  



The Statement of Work (SOW) requires the Subcontractor to (1) develop, (2) have the ability to access, or (3) host and/or maintain a Federal information system(s). Pursuant to Federal and HHS Information Security Program Policies, the Subcontractor and any lower tier Subcontractor performing under this Subcontract shall comply with the following requirements:

Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), Title III, E-Government Act of 2002, Pub. L.. No. 107-347 (Dec. 17, 2002): . 



The Subcontractor shall submit a roster, by name, position, email address, phone number and responsibility, of all staff (including lower tier Subcontractor staff) working under the Subcontract who will develop, have the ability to access, or host and/or maintain a Federal information system(s).  The roster shall be submitted to the Subcontracts Specialist, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the effective date of the Subcontract.  Any revisions to the roster as a result of staffing changes shall be submitted within fifteen (15) calendar days of the change. 

 Individuals identified on the Subcontractor’s roster shall take the NIH Security Awareness Training and the certificates of completion along with the NIH email account shall be forwarded to the SAIC-F Subcontracts Specialist within thirty (30) calendar days of the effective date of the Subcontract.  The NIH Security Awareness Training can be accessed at . 



ARTICLE H.10.  HOTEL AND MOTEL FIRE SAFETY ACT OF 1990 (P.L. 101-391)



Pursuant to Public Law 101-391, no Federal funds may be used to sponsor or fund in whole or in part a meeting, convention, conference or training seminar that is conducted in, or that otherwise uses the rooms, facilities, or services of a place of public accommodation that do not meet the requirements of the fire prevention and control guidelines as described in the Public Law.  This restriction applies to public accommodations both foreign and domestic.  Public accommodations that meet the requirements can be accessed at:  



ARTICLE H.11.  FORCE MAJEURE



No nonperformance, failure, omission or delay of any terms or conditions of the Agreement by either Party in the performance of any obligation of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement or create any liability if the same shall arise from any cause or causes beyond the control of the Party, including, but not limited to, the following:  Acts of God; acts, omissions or delays in acting by any governmental authorities; rules, regulations or orders issued by any governmental authority or by any office, department, agency or instrumentality thereof; fires; storms; floods; earthquakes; accidents; wars; rebellions; insurrections; riots; invasions; or strikes and lockouts; and provided that the nonperforming or delayed Party provides to the other Party prompt written notice of the existence of and the reason for such nonperformance or delay and that such nonperformance, failure, omission or delay resulting from any one of the above causes is cured as soon as practicable after the occurrence of one or more of the above causes.	
PART 2—CONTRACT CLAUSES



SECTION I—CONTRACT CLAUSES



ARTICLE I.1.  GENERAL CLAUSES 



A.	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES:



Where the words “Contracting Officer” or “Government” appear, it shall be understood to mean “the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer” or “Prime Contractor” provided; however, that such substitution in no way supersedes or diminishes any rights or responsibilities of the Government under public law, Federal Acquisition Regulations, or in the terms of the prime contract, including, but not limited to, the right to review, audit, and approve any records or procedures of the Subcontractor. Where the word “Contractor” appears, it shall be understood to mean “Subcontractor” and where “Contract” appears, it shall be understood to mean “Subcontract.”



This subcontract incorporates the following clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .



	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES:





B.	DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION (HHSAR) (48 CHAPTER 3) CLAUSES:



	This subcontract incorporates the following DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION   HHSAR  48 Chapter 3 clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: 





[End of GENERAL CLAUSES]

 

ARTICLE I.2. CLAUSES PROVIDED IN FULL TEXT



FAR 52.227-11 Patent Rights—Retention by the Contractor 



As prescribed in 27.303(a), insert the following clause:



PATENT RIGHTS—RETENTION BY THE CONTRACTOR  (DEC 2007)



(j) Communications. 

All invention disclosures and requests for greater rights shall be sent to the Contracting Officer. Additionally, a copy of all invention disclosures, confirmatory licenses to the government, face page of the patent applications, waivers and other routine communications should send to the Contracting Officer  and the Director, Office of Extramural Research Administration, Division of Extramural Inventions and Technology Resources, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1136, Bethesda, MD 20892-7750 or  citing the SAIC-Frederick, Inc. contract number HHSN261200800001E.



(END OF CLAUSE)




PART 3—LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS



SECTION J—LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



ARTICLE J.1.  ATTACHMENTS






PART 4—REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS





SECTION K—REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFEROR’S



In order to be considered responsive an Offer provided in response to this solicitation must include complete and accurate Representations and Certifications in one of the two manners indicated in this section.  If the Subcontractor is registered and current with the Online Representations and Certification Application (ORCA) website ( ) then only the provision of a current Dun & Bradstreet (DUNS) number is required and should be provided below.  If the Subcontractor is not registered and current with ORCA, the Subcontractor must submit a completed and signed hard copy of the Representations and Certifications which may be accessed and printed from .

.



Please indicate your organization’s status by checking the appropriate response:



Our organization is registered and current with ORCA; our DUNS number is _______________ .



Our organization is NOT registered with ORCA; we have submitted one copy of the Representations and Certifications with our proposal.





SECTION L —  INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS



ARTICLE L.1.  PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS



A.	Authorizing Official:



An official authorized to contractually bind your organization must sign the proposals submitted.



B.	Format:



Proposals shall be submitted electronically via e-mail to Kimberly A. Iman at .  The files shall be saved and submitted as both Adobe Acrobat and Microsoft Word documents and named as follows:



	Volume 1 – Solicitation

This file shall contain the solicitation document with all items completed as requested in Article L.2.  Volume 1 – Solicitation proposal instructions below and be named Volume 1 – Solicitation.



Volume 2 – Technical Proposal

This file shall contain the technical proposal as requested in Article L.3.  Volume 2 – Technical Proposal instructions below and be named Volume 2 – Technical Proposal.



Volume 3 – Price Proposal

This file shall contain the price proposal as requested in Article L.4.  Volume 3 – Price Proposal instructions below and be named Volume 3 – Price Proposal.



Pricing data SHALL NOT be shown in the forwarding letter or in the technical proposal; however, this data shall be included in the price proposal.



Elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete and effective response to the RFP are not desired.



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. reserves the right to award a subcontract based on initial offer received without discussion of such offer.  Accordingly, each initial offer should be submitted with the most favorable terms from both a technical and price perspective.



Proposal preparation costs are the responsibility of the Offeror.



ALL QUESTIONS OR REQUESTS FOR CLARIFICATIONS MUST BE E-MAILED TO Kimberly A. Iman at   BEFORE 4:00 P.M., EASTERN STANDARD TIME, JANUARY 29, 2010.  No telephone calls will be accepted.  Questions or requests directed to any other individual or outside the directives of this Solicitation will not be considered valid, nor will there be a response provided.



ALL PROPOSALS MUST BE RECEIVED NO LATER THAN 4:00 P.M., EST, FEBRUARY 19, 2010. Proposals shall be submitted electronically via e-mail to Kimberly A. Iman at  .



ARTICLE L.2.  VOLUME 1 – SOLICITATION 



The Offeror shall electronically submit the solicitation in its entirety with the following items completed and included:



Signed Cover Page with Boxes 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 completed including the Offeror’s DUNS Number

Pages 7, 8 and 9 completed designating Offeror Authorized Representative, Offeror Authorized Invoice Administrator, and Key Personnel.

Section K – Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Offerors completed and signed (see Section K on Page 21).

If the total price proposed exceeds $550,000, Attachment 3 – Subcontracting Certification needs to be completed and submitted with offer.

A completed Form W-9 is required to be submitted with Offer.  All Offeror’s MUST be registered with the Central Contractors Registration (CCR).  Offerors may register with CCR at .  The address included on the W-9 MUST match the address registered at CCR, ORCA, and/or included on hard copy of Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Offerors.



ARTICLE L.3.  VOLUME 2 – TECHNICAL PROPOSAL 

Attached is the suggested format in which to submit your technical proposal:  



Technical Description and Approach:  (20 Page Limit)

Provide brief description and qualifications of your organization in response to this solicitation.

Provide detailed information of your understanding of what needs to be done, the scope of the work, the estimated length of time for the work to be finished, the challenges, risks and how you are going to address those challenges and reduce the risks.

Provide a detailed understanding of the tasks to be accomplished, the scope encompassed by these tasks and explain how your organization, if submitting a proposal for the developer’s role, will work with Adopters.

Specify data sharing plan following instructions from the template.

Proposals must indicate what data would be shared on caGrid as a result of their adoption of caTissue Suite and a plan for continued availability and updating of those datasets beyond the expiration of the contract. Please refer to Data Sharing Security Framework at  for general guidance.



Organization and Management Approach:  (10 Page Limit)

Introduce your company and team and give an overview of the capabilities it will bring to address this solicitation.

Describe your organization chart to show chain of command and lines of communication.

Describe the key personnel who will be assigned to manage performance and supervise the work under this proposed subcontract. Information is required which will show each key person’s general qualifications and recent experience with similar projects or contracts. For those key personnel who will not be assigned full time to this proposed subcontract, show the approximate percentage of time each will be available for this proposed subcontract.  

At least two key personnel are required.  Resume summaries should be included in this section, and full resumes in the appendix.

Describe your project management approach and what control mechanism you can put in place to track progress and ensure project schedules will be met in according to agreed upon schedules.



Financial:

Describe your mechanism of how you will control the budget and costs. 

Describe your budget narrative; cost effectiveness, line item budgets etc.



Past Performance:

Describe the teams overall experience with developments, processes, and technologies similar to that described in this solicitation.  Provide a description of at least three (3) projects which have been successfully performed in the past which indicate the ability to perform on this effort.



ARTICLE L.4.  VOLUME 3 – PRICE PROPOSAL 



Offeror shall submit a price proposal based on all of the objectives/functionalities and process guidelines specified in this RFP.  The price proposal shall indicate how many iterations this project needs under RUP process, specify task items, milestones, deliverables under each iteration, propose price for each milestone and deliverables, and suggest payment schedule that will tie to the deliverables.   The successful offeror’s price proposal will become a part of the resultant subcontract as Attachment 4 – Price Schedule and Basis of Estimate for Base Period of Performance.

Offerors shall provide cost information sufficient enough to determine the realism of the proposal.  At a minimum this shall include an itemized listing of all labor, travel, equipment, subcontracting costs (if any), supplies, and other direct costs.  All labor costs shall be listed for each position in the proposal; all labor costs shall be broken down into direct and indirect costs.  All other costs listed shall also be broken down into actual proposed costs and associated overhead charges.

Offerors proposed by the Offeror shall provide the same information in their cost proposals as described above.  Offeror costs shall then be rolled into the overall Offeror’s cost proposal, but be clearly labeled as being attributed to proposed offeror.

The grand total of the payment schedule will become the firm fixed price for the resultant subcontract.  



ARTICLE L.5.  POINT OF CONTACT



The Subcontracts Specialist for this solicitation is identified below.



Kimberly A. Iman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B 

Frederick, Maryland 21702-1201 

Phone:	301-228-4033; Fax:301-228-4037

E-mail:  



SECTION  M  --  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



ARTICLE M.1.  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



The assessment of Offers received in response to this solicitation will be carefully considered against the needs of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. (SAIC-Frederick) and the NCI Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology.  This assessment is not intended to be a solely mechanical or mathematical analysis of an Offer, but rather the product of both objective and subjective measurements and judgments of the source selection officials after consideration of the relevant information.



Basis for Award:  



SAIC-Frederick will award a subcontract resulting from this RFP to the responsible organization whose offer conforms to the RFP and will be the most advantageous to the SAIC-Frederick, price and other factors considered.

	

		Potential Award without Discussions:



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. reserves the right to award a subcontract without discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that the initial prices are fair and reasonable and that discussions are not necessary. 



Therefore, the Offeror’s initial offer should contain the Offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.  However, SAIC-Frederick reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary.  SAIC-Frederick may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest price; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.



Evaluation Factors:



In descending order of relative importance, the following evaluation factors shall be used to evaluate the prospective Offers:



  Technical Capability

   Key Personnel

   Past Performance

   Price



1.  Technical Evaluation:

The Offeror shall have experiences utilizing or willing to adopt minimum two different caBIG® applications: caTissue and one of following systems: CTS applications, caArray, or caLIMS. The offeror will provide appropriate datasets in these tools that will be utilized to test different integration and data upgrade/migration scenarios.



The Offeror shall demonstrate in depth knowledge and experience of iterative software development processes i.e. Rational Unified Process (RUP).

The Offeror shall demonstrate extensive knowledge and experience in testing methodology, test process and utilizing different testing tools.

The offeror shall present a solid and comprehensive data sharing plan

The Offeror shall demonstrate knowledge and experience in functional test, user acceptance test etc.



2.  Key Personnel:

Qualification, relevant experiences and availability of key personnel will be evaluated.  The offeror shall provide scientific, clinical and appropriate technical resources that are needed to finish the objectives.



3.  Past Performance:

The past performance shall demonstrate the offeror’s background and experience of the proposed personnel. 



4.  Price:

Cost reasonableness and total price will be evaluated.
























ATTACHMENT 1





SAIC-FREDERICK TERMS AND CONDITIONS



October 2007

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation





TERMS AND CONDITIONS

October 2007



1.	GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP

This Order is made by SAIC-Frederick, Inc., a Subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation under its contract with the National Cancer Institute at Frederick (NCI-Frederick).  The provisions and clauses contained herein are influenced by and reflect the relationship of the parties in that contract, which was awarded and is administered under the provision of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  There is no privity of contract between the Seller and the Government. 



GENERAL RELATIONSHIP

The Seller is not an employee of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. for any purpose whatsoever.  Seller agrees that in all matters relating to this Order it shall be acting as an independent contractor and shall assume and pay all liabilities and perform all obligations imposed with respect to the performance of this Order.  Seller shall have no right, power or authority to create any obligation, expressed or implied, on behalf of Buyer and/or Buyer’s customers and shall have no authority to represent Buyer as an agent.



DEFINITIONS

Buyer – SAIC-Frederick, Inc. 



Seller – The party (contractor) receiving the award from SAIC-Frederick, Inc.



Prime Contract − The Government contract under which this Order is issued (see paragraph 1 entitled "Government Relationship").



NCI Government Contracting Officer −The NCI-Frederick person with the authority to interpret, modify, administer, and/or otherwise make decisions with regard to the Prime Contract". This term includes authorized representatives of the NCI-Frederick Contracting Officer within their delegated authority. 



Contracting Officer – The SAIC-Frederick, Inc. person with the authority to enter into and administer Orders.  The term includes authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within their delegated authority.



Order – The contractual agreement between SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and the Seller.



Special Definitions – See paragraph 4 for the special definitions that apply in the use of the solicitation and award clauses of this Order. 



SOLICITATION AND AWARD CLAUSES – SPECIAL DEFINITIONS

FAR clauses included in this Order, including any solicitation document, shall be interpreted as follows:



Unless a purposeful distinction is made clear and the context of the clause requires retention of the original definition, the term “Contractor” shall mean Seller, the term “Contract” shall mean this Order, the term “Subcontractor” shall mean Subcontractors of Seller at any tier, and the terms “Government”, “Contracting Officer” and equivalent phrases shall mean SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and SAIC-Frederick’s Contracting Officer, respectively.  It is intended that the referenced clauses shall apply to Seller in such manner as is necessary to reflect the position of Seller as a contractor to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to insure Seller’s obligations to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and to the United States Government, and to enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to meet its obligations under its Prime Contract.



Full text of the referenced clauses may be found in the FAR (Code of Federal Regulation [CFR] Title 48), obtainable from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC  20402 or online at .  Copies of the clauses will be furnished by the Contracting Officer upon request.



5.	ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Order, including all attachments and/or documents incorporated by reference by Buyer, shall constitute the entire agreement between Buyer and Seller.  No other document (including Seller’s proposal, quotation or acknowledgement forms, etc.) shall be a part of this Order, even if referred to, unless specifically agreed to in writing by Buyer. No right that Buyer has regarding this Order may be waived or modified except in writing by Buyer.



6.	ACCEPTANCE AND MODIFICATION OF TERMS

Acceptance of this Order by Seller may be made by signing the acknowledgement copy hereof or by partial performance hereunder, and any such acceptance shall constitute an unqualified agreement to all terms and conditions set forth herein unless otherwise modified in writing by the parties.  Any additions, deletions or differences in the terms proposed by Seller are objected to and hereby rejected, unless Buyer agrees otherwise in writing.  No additional or different terms and conditions proposed by the Seller in accepting this Order shall be binding upon Buyer unless accepted in writing by Buyer and no other addition, alteration or modification to, and no waiver of any of the provisions herein contained shall be valid unless made in writing and executed by Buyer and Seller.  Seller shall perform in accordance with the Description/Quantity schedule set forth in this Order and all attachments thereto.



7.	LEGAL CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATIONS

This Order shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the principles of Federal Contract Law, and to the extent that Federal Contract Law is not dispositive, and the state law becomes applicable, the law of the State of Maryland shall apply.  



8.	COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS

Seller shall submit all certifications required by Buyer under this Order and shall at all times, at its own expense, comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, ordinances, administrative orders, rules or regulations.



9.	GIFTS

Seller shall not make or offer a gratuity or gift of any kind to Buyer’s employees or their families. Seller should note that the providing of gifts or attempting to provide gifts under government subcontracts might be a violation of the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (4 U.S.C. 51-58).



MARYLAND SALES AND USE TAX

The State of Maryland has issued Direct Payment Permit #3, effective date August 29, 1996, to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. that will be issued to vendors of NCI-Frederick for  purchases of goods and services. A copy of this Permit is available to vendors upon request.  As a holder of a Direct Payment Permit, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. is authorized to make direct payment of sales and use tax to the State of Maryland.  Accordingly, sellers that provide goods and services to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. are relieved from collecting sales tax from SAIC-Frederick, Inc.  Therefore, sellers to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. shall not place a separate line item for tax on any invoice sent to SAIC-Frederick, Inc.  Please note that the Permit is not to be used by sellers to make purchases free of sales tax, nor shall the Permit be transferred or assigned.  



11.	BUYER FURNISHED DATA AND MATERIALS

Seller agrees that it will keep confidential and not disclose, disseminate or publish the features of any equipment, tools, gauges, patterns, designs, drawings, engineering data, computer programs and software or other technical or proprietary information furnished, loaned or bailed by Buyer hereunder (hereinafter collectively referred to as (items/information), and will use such items/information only in the performance of this Order or, if authorized, other orders from Buyer, and not otherwise without Buyer’s written consent.



All such items furnished, loaned or bailed by Buyer hereunder, or fabricated, manufactured, purchased, or otherwise acquired by Seller for the performance of this Order and specifically charged to Buyer, are the property of Buyer.



Upon completion, expiration or termination of this Order, Seller shall return all such items in good condition, reasonable wear only excepted, together with all spoiled and surplus items to Buyer, or make such other disposition thereof as may be directed or approved by Buyer.  Seller agrees to replace, at its expense, all such items not so returned. Seller shall make no charge for any storage, maintenance or retention of such items.  Seller shall bear all risk of loss for all such items in Seller’s possession.



Seller also agrees to use any designs or data contained or embodied in such items in accordance with any restrictive legends placed on such items by Buyer or any third party.  If Buyer furnishes any material, for fabrication hereunder, Seller agrees: (a)  not to substitute any other material for such fabrication with Buyer’s prior written consent, and (b) that title to such material shall not be affected by incorporation in or attachment to any other property.



12.	NOTICE OF DELAY 

Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer in writing of any actual or potential delay in Sellers performance under this Order. Such notice shall, at a minimum, describe the cause, effect, duration and corrective action proposed by Seller to address the problem. Seller shall give prompt written notice to the Buyer of all changes to such conditions.



CHANGES AND SUSPENSION

Buyer may, by written notice to Seller at any time, make changes within the general scope of this Order in any one or more of the following:  (a) drawings, designs or specifications; (b) quantity; (c) time or place of delivery; (d) method of shipment or packing; and (e) the quantity of Buyer furnished property.  Buyer may, for any reason, direct Seller to suspend, in whole or in part, delivery of goods or performance of services hereunder for such period of time as may be determined by Buyer in its sole discretion.  If any such change or suspension causes a material increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for the performance of any part of the work under this Order, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the Order price or delivery schedule, or both, provided Seller shall have notified Buyer in writing of any claim for such adjustment within twenty (20) days from the date of notification of the change or suspension from Buyer.  No such adjustment or any other modification of the terms of this Order will be allowed unless authorized by Buyer by means of a written modification to the Order.  Seller shall proceed with the work as changed without interruption and without awaiting settlement of any such claim.



14.	ADVERTISING

Seller agrees that prior to the issuance of any publicity or publication of any advertising that in either case makes reference to this Order, or to Buyer, Seller will obtain the written permission of Buyer with respect thereto.



15.	CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Seller shall not at any time, even after the expiration or termination of this Order, use or disclose to any person for any purpose other than to perform this Order, any information it receives, directly or indirectly from Buyer in connection with this Order, except information that is or becomes publicly available, or is rightfully received by Seller from a third party without restriction. Upon request by Buyer, Seller shall return to Buyer all documentation and other material containing such information.



16.	INDEMNIFICATION

Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, causes of action, lawsuits, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and litigation costs incurred in connection therewith and regardless of legal theory (hereinafter referred to as ”claims”), occasioned wholly or in part by any act or omission of Seller or any of its lower tiers, or their employees, agents or representatives arising out of or relating to this Order.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller’s obligations under this Section shall not apply to any claims that are finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be occasioned solely by the negligence or willful misconduct of Buyer. 



INFRINGEMENT INDEMNITIES

Seller shall, at its expense, indemnify, defend, save and hold Buyer and its successors, affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, independent contractors and customers, and the officers, agents and employees of such customers (hereinafter collectively referred to in this section as “Buyer”)  harmless from and against any and all damages, liabilities, penalties, interest and costs awarded against and reasonable expenses, including without limitation attorneys’ fees that result or arise out of or relate to, in whole or part, any claims, suits, proceedings, actions, causes of action and demands brought against the Buyer asserting that the deliverables, including without delivery,  including without limitation all software, goods or services, or any part thereof, furnished under this Order, or the creation, delivery, use modification, reproduction, release, performance, display or disclosure, including  without limitation resale or sublicensing thereof, constitutes an infringement of any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other proprietary or intellectual property right or rights of privacy or publicity.  In the event such goods or services or use thereof are enjoined in whole or in part, Seller shall at its expense and Buyer’s option undertake one of the following: (a) obtain for Buyer the right to continue the use of such goods or services; (b) in a manner acceptable to Buyer, substitute equivalent goods or services or make modifications thereto so as to avoid such infringement and extend this indemnity thereto; or (c)  refund to Buyer an amount equal to the purchase price for such goods or services plus any excess costs or expenses incurred in obtaining substitute goods or services from another source.



Notwithstanding this Section 17, should the deliverables or portion thereof be held to constitute an infringement and use as contemplated by this Order  be enjoined or be threatened to be enjoined, Seller shall notify Buyer and immediately, at Seller’s expense; (a) procure for Buyer the right to continue to use the deliverables or portion thereof with a version that is non-infringing, provided that the replacement or modified version meets any applicable specifications to Buyer’s satisfaction.  If (a) or (b) are not available to Seller, in addition to any damages or expenses reimbursed under this section, Seller shall refund to Buyer all amounts paid to Seller by Buyer under this Order. 



18.	NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS

The failure of Buyer to insist upon strict performance of any of the terms and conditions in this Order or to exercise any rights or remedies, shall not be construed as a waiver of its rights to assert any of same or to rely on any such terms or conditions at any time thereafter.  Acceptance or payment of any part of the Order shall not bind Buyer to accept future shipments or performance of services nor deprive Buyer of the right to return goods already accepted or for which Buyer has made payment.  Acceptance or payment shall not be deemed to be a waiver of Buyer’s right to cancel or return all or any part of the goods because of failure to conform to the Order or by reason of defects, whether latent or patent, or other breach of warranty, or to make any claim for damages of any and all kind. 



19.	INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION

If this Order entails effort on a Government installation, including any off-site buildings owned or leased by the Government, the Seller must provide and maintain the minimum amounts of insurance stated below.



At Buyer’s request, Seller agrees to provide Certificates of Insurance evidencing that the required insurance coverages are in force and providing not less than thirty days written notice prior to any cancellation or restrictive modification of the policies.  



Further, the required insurance coverages below shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be maintained by Buyer.  The below required coverages and their limits in no way lessen nor affect Seller’s other obligations or liabilities set forth in this Order.



Seller agrees to purchase and maintain at its own expense the following insurance coverages with minimum limits as stated:



Statutory Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per occurrence covering its employees, including a waiver of subrogation obtained from the carrier in favor of Buyer; 



Commercial General Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per each occurrence and $2 Million in this Aggregate covering bodily injury, broad form property damage, personal injury, products and completed operations, contractual liability and independent contractors’ liability.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds and a waiver of subrogation shall be obtained from the carrier in favor of Buyer;



Automobile Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million Combined Single Limit for Bodily Injury covering use of all owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds on the policy;



Professional Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per occurrence covering damages caused by any acts, errors, and omissions arising out of the professional services performed by Seller, or any person for whom the Seller is legally liable.  To the extent that coverage for Seller’s services are not excluded in (ii) above by virtue of being deemed not of a professional nature, this requirement does not apply.



All-Risk Property Insurance in an amount adequate to replace property, including supplies covered by this Order, of Buyer and/or Buyer’s customer that may be in the possession or control of Seller.  Buyer shall be named as a Loss Payee with respect to loss or damage to said property and/or supplies furnished by Buyer.



The required insurance coverages above shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be maintained by Buyer and notwithstanding any provision contained herein, Seller, and its employees, agents, representatives, consultants, Subcontractors and suppliers, are not insured by the Buyer, and are not covered under any policy of insurance that the Buyer has obtained or has in place.



Any self-insured retentions, deductibles and exclusions in coverage in the policies required under this Article shall be assumed by, for the account of, and at the sole risk of Seller which provides the insurance and to the extent applicable shall be paid by Seller.  In no event shall the liability of Seller be limited to the extent of any insurance or the minimum limits required herein.



20.	EXPORT CONTROL COMPLIANCE FOR FOREIGN PERSONS

Seller shall not, nor shall Seller authorize or permit its employees, agents or lower tiers to disclose, export or re-export any Buyer information, or any process, product or services that is produced under this Order, without prior notification to Buyer and complying with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including the regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce and/or the U.S. Department of State.  In addition, Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer if Seller is listed on any of the Department of State, Treasury or Commerce proscribed persons or destinations lists, or if Seller’s export privileges are otherwise denied, suspended or revoked in whole or in part.



Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, Buyer conducts research activities that include export-controlled technology that cannot be readily segregated.  Buyer may require Seller (including any lower tiers) to place restrictions on their work force performing onsite at SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to protected individuals as established under the guidelines of the Commerce Department Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).



Contractors (including any lower tiers) may be required to disclose the status of personnel proposed to perform work onsite prior to award.



Contractors shall include in all agreements and related documents with lower tiers, notice to third parties that the export of any process, goods and/or technical data from the United States may require an export control license from the U.S. Government and that, failure to obtain such export control license may result in termination of Order, and/or criminal liability under U.S. laws. 



21.	ASSIGNMENT



Neither this Order nor any interest herein may be assigned, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Buyer except that the Seller shall have the right to assign this Order to any successor of such party by way of merger or consolidation or the acquisition of substantially all of the business and assets of the Seller relating to the subject matter of this Order.  This right shall be retained provided that such successor shall expressly assume all of the obligations and liabilities of the Seller under this Order, and that the Seller shall remain liable and responsible to Buyer for the performance and observance of all such obligations.



Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amounts due the Seller may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of the clause 52.232-23, Assignment of Claims.



In the event the prime contract of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. with the Government is succeeded by a successor contractor selected by the Government, this Order may be assigned to the successor contractor.



22.	DISPUTES

(A) If a decision relating to the Prime Contract is made by the NCI-Frederick Contracting Officer and such decision is also related to this Order, said decision, if binding upon Buyer under the Prime Contract shall in turn be binding upon Buyer and Seller with respect to such matter; provided, however, that if Seller disagrees with any such decision made by the NCI Contracting Officer and Buyer elects not to appeal any such decision, Seller shall have the right reserved to Buyer under the Prime Contract with the Government to prosecute a timely appeal in the name of Buyer, as permitted by the contract or by law, Seller to bear its own legal and other costs.  If Buyer elects not to appeal any such decision, Buyer agrees to notify Seller in a timely fashion after receipt of such decision and to assist Seller in its prosecution of any such appeal in every reasonable manner.  If Buyer elects to appeal any such decision of the NCI Contracting Officer, Buyer agrees to furnish Seller promptly of a copy of such appeal. Any decision upon appeal, if binding upon Buyer, shall in turn be binding upon Seller.  Pending the making of any decision, either by the NCI Contracting Officer or on appeal, Seller shall proceed diligently with performance of this Order.



If, as a result of any decision or judgment whish is binding upon Seller and Buyer, as provided above, Buyer is unable to obtain payment or reimbursement from the Government under the Prime Contract for, or is required to refund or credit to the Government, any amount with respect to any item or matter for which the Buyer has reimbursed or paid Seller, Seller shall, on demand, promptly repay such amount to Buyer. Additionally, pending the final conclusion of any appeal hereunder, Seller shall, on demand promptly repay any such amount to Buyer.  Buyer's maximum liability for any matter connected with or related to this Order which was properly the subject of a claim against the Government under the Prime Contract shall not exceed the amount of the Buyer's recovery from the Government.



Seller agrees to provide certification that data supporting any claim made by Seller hereunder is made in good faith and that the supporting data is accurate and complete to the best of the Seller's knowledge or belief, all in accordance with the requirements of the Contracts Disputes Act of 1978 (41USC601-613) and implementing regulations. If any claim of Seller is determined to be based on upon fraud or misrepresentation, Seller agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold Buyer harmless for any and all liability, loss, cost, or expense resulting there from.



Any dispute not addressed in paragraph (A) above, will be subject to paragraph (B) as described below.



(B) Buyer and Seller agree to first enter into negotiations to resolve any controversy, claim or dispute (“dispute”) arising under or relating to this Order.  The parties agree to negotiate in good faith to reach a mutually agreeable resolution of such dispute within a reasonable period of time.  If good faith negotiations are unsuccessful, Buyer and Seller agree to resolve the dispute by binding and final arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The arbitration shall take place in the County of Frederick, State of Maryland.  The arbitrator(s) shall be bound to follow the provisions of this Order in resolving the dispute, and may not award punitive damages.  The decision of the arbitrator(s) shall be final and binding on the parties, and any award of the arbitrator(s) may be entered or enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.



Seller hereby waives any immunity, sovereign or otherwise, that it would otherwise have to such jurisdiction and agrees that its rights, obligations, and liabilities hereunder shall be determined in the same manner and to the same extent as those of a private litigant under like circumstances.



All costs of the arbitration shall be shared equally between the Parties, but the Parties specifically agree that each Party shall bear the expense of any costs incurred by it for its own counsel, experts, witnesses, preparation of documents, presentations, and logistics related to the proceedings.



Pending any decision, appeal or judgment referred to in this provision or the settlement of any dispute arising under this Order, Seller shall proceed diligently with the performance of this Order.



23.	NOTIFICATION OF DEBARMENT/SUSPENSION

By acceptance of this Order either in writing or by performance, Seller certifies that as of the date of award of this Order neither the Seller, lower tiers, nor any of its principals, is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government. Further, Seller shall provide immediate written notice to the Buyer in the event that during performance of this Order the Seller or any of its principals is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government.



24.	QUALITY ASSURANCE/INSPECTION

All goods furnished and services performed pursuant hereto shall be subject to inspection and test by Buyer at all reasonable times and places, during the Order term, and in any event, prior to Final Acceptance as that term is defined in the Statement of Work.  No inspection made prior to Final Acceptance shall relieve Seller from responsibility for defects or other to meet the failure requirements of this Order.  In the event that goods furnished or services supplied are not in accordance with the Statement of Work and Schedule or other requirements.  Buyer may require Seller to promptly correct, repair, replace or re-perform the goods or services.  The cost of correction, repair, replacement, or re-performance shall be determined under Section 7 of this Order.  If Seller fails to proceed with reasonable promptness to perform the required correction, repair, replacement, or re-performance, Buyer may terminate the Order for default.  If Seller is unable to accomplish the foregoing, then Buyer may procure such materials and services from another source or perform such services in-house and charge to Seller’s account all costs, expenses and damages associated therewith.  Buyer’s approval of designs furnished by Seller shall not relieve Seller of its obligations hereunder.



25.	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between these SAIC Terms and Conditions and the Order issued, the inconsistency or conflict shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:



1)	The Order including SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Standard Terms and Conditions, Exhibits thereto and any provisions.

2)	Specifications and/or drawings.

3)	Other documents or exhibits when attached.



26.	TERMINATION



Termination for Convenience



Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Order, in whole or in part, at any time, without cause, by providing written notice to Seller.  Upon receiving notice of such termination, Seller shall:



a)	stop all work on this Order on the date and to the extent specified;

	b)	place no further contracts hereunder except as may be necessary for completing such portions of the 	Order that have not been terminated; and

c)	terminate all contracts to the extent that they may relate to portions of the Order that have been terminated; and

d)	protect all property in which Buyer has or may acquire an interest and deliver such property to Buyer.



Within twenty (20) days from such termination, Seller may submit to Buyer its written claim for termination charges in the form prescribed by Buyer.  Failure to submit such claim within such time shall constitute a waiver of all claims and a release of all Buyer’s liability arising out of such termination.  Under no circumstances shall Seller be entitled to anticipatory or lost profits.



Buyer reserves the right to verify claims hereunder and Seller shall make available to Buyer, upon its request, all relevant, non-proprietary books and records for inspection and audit (e.g. time cards and receipts).  If Seller fails to afford Buyer its rights hereunder, Seller shall be deemed to have relinquished its claim.



Termination for Default



1)	Buyer may, by written notice of default to Seller, terminate the whole or any part of this Order, in any one of the following circumstances:



Seller fails to make delivery of the goods or to perform the services within time specified  herein or any extension thereof; or

Seller fails to perform any of the other provisions of this Order in accordance with its terms and does not cure such failure within a period of ten (10) days after receipt of notice from Buyer specifying such failure; or

Seller becomes insolvent or the subject of proceedings under any law relating to the relief of debtors or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due.



2)	If this Order is so terminated, Buyer may procure or otherwise obtain, upon such terms and in such manner as Buyer may deem appropriate, goods or services similar to those terminated.  Seller shall be liable to Buyer for any excess costs of such similar supplies or services.



3)	Seller shall transfer title and deliver to Buyer, in the manner and to the extent requested in writing by Buyer at or after termination, such complete or partially completed articles, property, materials, parts, tools, fixtures, plans, drawings, information and contract rights as Seller has produced or acquired for the performance  of the terminated part of this Order, and Buyer will pay Seller the contract price for completed articles delivered to and accepted by Buyer and the fair value of the other property of Seller so requested and delivered.



4)	Seller shall continue performance of this Order to the extent not terminated.  Buyer shall have no obligation to Seller with respect to the terminated part of this Order except as herein provided.



27.	SECURITY

Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. may be required to conduct, on persons performing work on Government Owned or controlled installations, individual background checks prior to the commencement of effort.  As part of this process, information will be required to enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to conduct the appropriate background checks, including name (including any aliases), daytime phone number, SSN, date of birth, and country of birth.  Individuals who are unable or unwilling to provide the required information and/or receive the required authorizations will not be allowed access to NCI-Frederick or any controlled premises.



Seller agrees to comply with the Information Technology (IT) systems security and /or privacy specifications set forth in the Agreement;  the Computer Security Act of 1987; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Appendix III, “Security of Federal Automated Information Systems”, and the DHHS Automated Information Systems Security Program (AISSP) Handbook, which may be found at the following websites:  Computer Security Act of 1987: , OMB A-130 Appendix III: , DHHS AISSP Handbook : .



The Seller further agrees to include this provision in any Order awarded pursuant to the Agreement.  Failure to comply with these requirements may constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26 of these Terms and Conditions.



The Seller shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of the Agreement.  The Seller shall establish and implement appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of sensitive Government information, data and/or equipment.  Any Seller employee who may have access to sensitive information under this agreement shall complete the form entitled, “Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information – Contractor Agreement,” which may be found at the following website: .



A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer prior to performing any work under the Agreement.



The Seller shall assure that each employee has completed the NIH Computer Security Awareness Training () prior to performing any work under this contract.



The Seller shall maintain and submit to the Contracting Officer a listing by name and title of each individual working under this contract, who has completed the NIH required training.  Any additional security training completed by Seller staff shall be included on this listing.



In addition, during all activities and operations on Government premises, the Seller shall comply with DHHS, including National Institutes of Health (NIH), rules of conduct.  Should the Seller have questions concerning these requirements or need of procedural guidance to ensure compliance they may contact the cognizant SAIC-Frederick, Inc. acquisition representative.



28.	TOBACCO USE AT THE NCI-FREDERICK

In accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) directive, the NCI-Frederick campus is a tobacco free workplace.  Use of tobacco in any form is prohibited on the entire NCI-Frederick campus.  This includes personal vehicles while on NCI-Frederick property and all government vehicles, regardless of their location.



This policy applies to all employees, Government and Contractor, visitors, Subcontractors, vendors and guests of the NCI-Frederick, and extends to all HHS owned or leased facilities and properties external to the NCI-Frederick campus where the sole tenant(s) are HHS and/or SAIC-Frederick employees.



29.	PAYMENT AND INVOICING

Payment – Work accepted by Buyer shall be paid for in U.S. dollars ($USD) within the negotiated terms upon receipt of proper invoice.



STANDARDS OF BUSINESS ETHICS

Seller, including all lower tiers are expected and required to comply fully with Buyer’s standards of business ethics and conduct and to inform appropriate Buyer officials immediately of any illegal or unethical conduct in their dealings with Buyer’s officers or employees.  Copies of the Buyer’s Code of Ethics and contacts for such reports are available on  at .



31.	SEVERABILITY

If any term contained in this Subcontract is held or finally determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, in whole or in part, such term shall be severed from this Subcontract, and the remaining terms contained herein shall continue in force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.



32.	INTERPRETATION

The captions and headings used in this Subcontract are solely for the convenience of the parties, and shall not be used in the interpretation of the text of this Subcontract.  Each party has read and agreed to the specific language of this Subcontract; therefore no conflict, ambiguity or doubtful interpretation shall be construed against the drafter.  



33.	ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS

Seller agrees to comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ( 29 U.S.C. 794d ) as amended by P.L. 105-220 under Title IV (Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998). Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) developed, procured, maintained, and/or used under this subcontract shall be in compliance with the "Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards" set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as the "Access Board") in 36 CFR Part 1194.  The complete text of Section 508 Final Standards can be Accessed at .  Applicable standards to this requirement are set forth in 36 CFR Part 1194.21 through 26. 



Seller further agrees to include this provision in any “Order awarded pursuant to the” Agreement.  Failure to comply to “these requirements may constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26”of these Terms and Conditions.






ATTACHMENT 2





SAIC-FREDERICK INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS

AND

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NONEXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT


ATTACHMENT 2



SAIC-FREDERICK, INC. INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS FOR FIXED PRICE SUBCONTRACTS





General:  The Subcontractor shall submit Invoices as prescribed herein.



Format:  Invoice Requests may be submitted on the payee's letter-head or self-designed form provided that it contains the information described herein.



Number of Copies:  Original and l copy



Frequency:  Invoices shall be submitted 30-days following the submittal of associated deliverable as prescribed at ARTICLE B.3. PRICES/COSTS.  



Preparation and Itemization of the Invoice:  The invoice shall be prepared in ink or typewritten as follows:



Designated Billing Office and Address

Invoice Number

Date of Invoice

Contract Number and Date

Payee’s name and address.  Show the contractor’s name (as it appears in the contract), correct address, and the title and phone number of the responsible official to whom payment is to be sent.  When an approved assignment has been made by the contractor, or a different payee has been designated, then insert the name and address of the payee instead of the contractor.

Description of goods or services, quantity, unit price (where appropriate), and total amount.

Charges for freight or express shipments other than F.O.B. destination.  (If shipped by freight or express and charges are more than $25, attach prepaid bill)

Equipment.  If there is a contract clause authorizing the purchase of any item of equipment, regardless of type or value, the purchase must be reported with each coinciding invoice accompanied by a completed Report of Capitalized Non-Expendable Equipment and associated purchase receipts.  Note that all equipment purchased with funds reimbursed through this subcontract shall remain the property of the U.S. Federal Government unless further determination is made through the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.



Currency:  All SAIC/NCI contracts are expressed in United States (U.S.) dollars.  When payments are made in a currency other than U.S. dollars, billings on the contract shall be expressed, and payment shall be made, in that other currency at amounts coincident with actual costs incurred.  Currency fluctuations may not be a basis of gain or loss to the contractor.  Notwithstanding the above, the total of all invoices paid under this contract may not exceed the U.S. dollars authorized.



ATTACHMENT 2

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NONEXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



This 










Attachment 2















ATTACHMENT 3





SUBCONTRACTING CERTIFICATION


SUBCONTRACTING CERTIFICATION



In accordance with the terms of its prime contract under which a resulting award will be issued, SAIC-Fredrick is committed to maximizing small business subcontracting opportunities to the maximum extent practicable.  In pursuit of this objective please complete, and include in your technical proposal, the following certification providing the percentage of effort that will be conducted by in-house, employee personnel during the execution of the statement of work as provided herein (including any option tasks/periods, as applicable):









*If the percentage of work to be conducted by employees of your organization is less than 100% a small business subcontracting plan as described in FAR 19.704 should be provided with your proposal and must be accepted by SAIC-Frederick prior to subcontract award.  Failure to provide an acceptable subcontracting plan in a timely manner may render your organization ineligible for subcontract award. 




ATTACHMENT 4





PRICE SCHEDULE AND BASIS OF ESTIMATE FOR BASE PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE




ATTACHMENT 5





caBIG® Data Sharing Plan Content Guideline


caBIG® Data Sharing Plan

Content Guideline

Draft

January 2008



PURPOSE



The caBIG® Data Sharing Plan presents information about the data that the adopting institution will share via the caGrid, including how, with whom, and when the data will be shared.  The plan establishes the nature of the data for purposes of determining the sensitivity of the data (related to legal and ethical restrictions on data exchange, intellectual property value, and contractual obligations) and thus the access controls necessary to secure the data.  The data sharing plan also presents information about the institution’s internal approval processes for sharing data outside of the institution.  That information is used to deepen the understanding of the broader caBIG® community about data sharing practices in general and to assist the individual adoption project and researcher in securing approval to share data.  



The following list of topics to address is intended as a guideline or checklist to assist the researcher in preparing a Data Sharing Plan for use in a caBIG® adoption project.  



CONTENT OF THE DATA SHARING PLAN



1.	Background of the Institution and the project that is adopting caBIG® tools and using the caGrid to share data

Describe the institution that is conducting the research (may be a unit or department of a larger institution):

Will any or all of the data be collected specifically for the current project?

If the data already exist, do any or all of the data to be shared fall within the Common Rule definition of human subjects research?  

Is your institution a covered entity as defined by the Privacy Rule of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (i.e., has your institution determined that it is subject to the requirements of the HIPAA Privacy Rule)? 

 Describe the purpose and objectives of the project, the tools that will be adopted, and how the tools are expected to help achieve the purpose and objectives.

Describe any sponsors (Federal, State, or private), collaborators, or others with regulatory, financial, intellectual property or other interests or rights to the data produced in the study or the data to be used in the study.



2.	Information about the data involved in the project and how they will be shared

Describe, with some specificity, the data that are intended to be shared, the source(s) of the data (e.g., mouse data, tissue bank specimens and annotations, imaged/annotated data, clinical trial or retrospective data from a study in progress, existing regular medical records, archived data).

If the institution (or relevant component) is covered by the HIPAA Privacy Rule, state whether the health information to be shared includes direct identifiers, or only limited or de-identified data sets, as defined by the Rule (see chart below for guidance).  If the dataset is de-identified, describe the process, whether manual or automated, used to de-identify it.

If the institution is subject to regulations governing health data privacy or restricting access to certain data such as genetic data, describe any restrictions.

 Describe different expected levels of data access (e.g., public access, group or consortium access, or private access, which is generally limited to the originators of the data and/or individually authorized and authenticated individuals/institutions). (Note that certain federally funded research may be subject to specific data sharing/data access requirements in which case, describe the requirements and how the requirements will be met.)

 Describe the mechanism(s) for sharing the data such as whether the dataset will be a separate copy of data exposed to shared use outside of the institution’s security firewall or the data will be accessed through the firewall.  

Describe any mechanisms in place within the institution (that is, mechanisms, if any, other than the authentication and authorization controls available either in the application itself or via the caGrid Common Security Module) that will be used for limiting access to authorized users.  Note any differences where different types of data sets (as described above) may be involved.

 Describe what controls the institution expects to place on access to the data, if any and how authorized access will be administered (e.g., will there be a requirement for registration of individual users who must “sign” (electronically or physically) a data use agreement, either a standard “click-through” agreement presented by caGrid or a separately negotiated agreement between each prospective user and the research institution?)

When do you expect to share the particular data relative to the close of the study (e.g., within N months after the close of the study to allow for data validation, immediately upon publication of the study which is expected to occur within N months of the close of the study, immediately upon submittal of a patent application which is expected to occur no later that N months after the close of the study), and by approximately what actual date would you expect the data to be shared?  Who will be responsible for releasing the information?



3.	Information about the institutional units involved in approval to share data outside of the institution, including an IRB

 Are there internal organizations other than an IRB involved in approving the adoption project and sharing data such as Technology Transfer Offices, Compliance, Privacy or Information Technology Security Offices, Legal Counsel, etc.?  If so, describe the steps and approximate timeframes of the process for securing all necessary approvals, including what information the organization may require regarding the project, caGrid security or the caBIG® program itself.

If there is an IRB involved in approving data sharing, describe the steps and approximate timeframes involved in the process for securing approval to share the particular data involved in the adoption project, if any, including what information the organization may require regarding the project, caGrid security or the caBIG® program itself.

Does the IRB audit compliance with the options participants choose in the informed consent?



4.	Provide information about any additional anticipated challenges, limitations, or other constraints on data sharing.


De-Identified Data Sets and 
Limited Data Sets



The following chart describes the information that must be eliminated from a database, registry, or any other data set for the data set to be considered “de-identified” or a “limited data set”. Appropriately de-identified data sets are not regulated by the HIPAA Privacy Rule. Limited data sets may be used or disclosed for research, public health, and other limited purposes, but only by those who sign a “data use agreement” (signature may be written or electronic, depending on applicable state law and local institutional policy). Note that for each data element listed below, the information must be eliminated with respect to the patient and to any of the patient’s relatives, employers, or household members.



Important: Even if the HIPAA Privacy Rule does not regulate the use of a dataset or permits its use or disclosure for research, federal regulations, institutional policies, and/or  state laws and regulations governing human subjects research and health information privacy may still apply. 





*	Even if all of the information listed in this column is removed, if the researcher knows that any remaining information in the data set could be used to re-identify a patient (e.g., a diagnosis code where the disease is very rare), then the data set is not considered de-identified.



†	If links must be maintained in the data set for potential later re-identification, they must be completely unrelated to any of the above elements. For example, a patient’s initials or a scrambled social security number are not permitted in a de-identified data set. A subject code that reflects the order in which subjects were enrolled into a trial would be permitted.



Chart adapted from the original prepared by Rachel Nosowsky, Esq., University of Michigan., Rev. June 2003





ATTACHMENT 6





SECTION C—RFP STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES 
SECTION C—DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES



ARTICLE C.1.  STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVE



1.	BACKGROUND







caTissue Suite is a caBIG® biorepository management tool designed for biospecimen inventory, tracking, and annotation. This tool allows biorepositories to track the collection, storage, quality assurance, and distribution of biospecimens as well as data related to the participant and study from which biospecimens is collected. It also helps researchers to find and request specimens that may be subsequently used for translational research studies. caTissue’s grid service allows searches to be performed across caTissue installations at multiple sites on the internet and allows integration with other caBIG® applications.  



From a technical point of view caTissue is a multiple tiered architecture web application based on Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) with an underlying relational database in MySQL or Oracle. End user access is via a web browser.



The wide adoption of caTissue urges us to leapfrog to a new stage that provides a new community input model. The stability and maturity of caTissue in the biorepository field provides us an opportunity to exploit the interoperability in caTissue to benefit the community.   caTissue Suite 1.2 will provide better quality, usability, compatibility, interoperability, performance, as well as a list of new features/functionalities.





This initiative will use Rational Unified Process and the solicitation/proposal phase will be part of the inception phase that answers questions about what to build; identifies key functionalities, costs, schedule, and risks; decides process and tools; and explores possible solutions.



Terminology and acronyms used throughout are given in Appendix A.



2.	OBJECTIVES



The lack of standardized, high-quality biospecimens is widely recognized as a significant roadblock to cancer research. The primary goal of this project is to promote further adoption of caTissue Suite, encouraging data sharing on tissue specimen collections, facilitating tissue distribution and enhancing collaboration among researchers and clinicians regarding tissue samples and related information. 



The primary focus of this release will improve interoperability with other caBIG® products; integrate with assay systems like caArray, caBIG Clinical Trials Suite (CCTS), NCI Enterprise Services (NES), and the Biospecimen Research Database; improve interoperability by implementing the Common Biorepository Model CBM); improve grid compatibility, quality, performance and scalability by refactoring and re-architecting the existing system. 



By improving quality and interoperability of Tissue Banking and Pathology Tools, we are one step closer towards the mission of Office of Biorepositories and Biospecimen Research (OBBR): to ensure that human biospecimens available for cancer research are of the highest quality; and we are one step further in resolving the most difficult problems that will drive 21st century cancer research: the limited availability of carefully collected and controlled, high-quality human biospecimens annotated with essential clinical data and properly consented for broad investigational use.



This software is licensed as open source to promote the reuse of existing code, hence optimizing the full benefit of the research dollars spent. 



To be more specific, the objectives of this initiative include:



Enhancement and maintenance

Refactoring, re-architecting to provide a set of robust, flexible and high performance services.

Provide more grid services on top of existing grid data services

Improve performance of existing grid services

Improve the capacity and scalability of the existing system

Address grid compatibility of Dynamic Extensions.

Interoperability

One of the main goals of this initiative is to improve the interoperability of caTissue and other applications. As part of this effort, caTissue will provide a suite of services like Biospecimen Identifier Service and Biospecimen Service; implement and consume other services like COPPA. caTissue and other applications such as caArray, CTS PSC/C3PR, BRD will utilize these services to communicate and integrate with each other. (See Following Graph)







caTissue 1.2 Integration



Provide global identification of specimens over multiple instances of caTissue. (Identify biospecimens using global identifiers that are unique across the grid.)

Link between biospecimens and molecular array data over the grid. Integration with assay systems e.g. caArray.

Work with NCI Enterprise Service (NES) team to identify requirements that extend COPPA services to satisfy pathology banking needs and integrate with available and compatible NES services

Integrate with CTS products such as Patient Study Calendar (PSC)

Integrate with Biospecimen Research Database (BRD)

Implement Common Biorepository Model (CBM)



2.1.	SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

Following are the more specific project objectives that developers and adopters need to work together to achieve. The development work will be done by developers and adopters will work with developers on requirements, use cases, testing etc. as specified in later section of the solicitation.

2.1.1	Enhance Usability and General Application Enhancement

The version of caTissue Suite from which development will continue is caTissue Suite 1.1.x.

2.1.2	Provide Additional Grid Services Types

The developer shall extend caTissue’s grid data services to include the WS-Enumeration and Bulk Data Transfer service types as appropriate. The data services for following Models: Domain, Annotation, Consent Tracking, Ordering System, Shipping and Tracking, Surgical Pathology Report (SPR), Security etc. 



A more fine grained security mechanism shall be developed whereby a user’s privileges on the grid as indicated by their membership of particular grid groups map to appropriate authorization within a local caTissue instance. The data which each grid group provides access to shall continue to be determined by each local installation of caTissue.



The system shall support the count modifier that allows a grid service to return the number of records that a query would obtain (see caGrid manual).



The proposal shall indicate which variants of a caGrid service (see caGrid user manual) will be provided.



caB2B (Bench to Bedside) is a caGrid client that allows queries across grid instances to be performed by scientists who are not experts in the details of grids. An important validation of caTissue’s grid data services is that they should be able to be queried through caB2B.

2.1.3	Biospecimen Identifier	

The system shall be adapted to obtain specimen and patient identifiers from a central service such that identifiers for specimens are unique across instances of caTissue. 



The system shall have the capability to store identifiers that day to day operations can be conducted even if the specimen identifier service is unavailable.



The system shall obtain identifiers automatically at suitable intervals, or as needed to support routine operations, from the central service. Failure to obtain identifiers should raise an alert to local administrators.



Adopters will use tissue identifiers the way implemented in caTissue.

2.1.4	Integrate caTissue with assay systems including caArray

The system shall make available a service which will allow external systems to download and import identifiers for specimens distributed to receiving sites. The Distribution and Distribution Item classes in caTissue are likely to be appropriate classes to support this.

2.1.5	Export data into MAGE-TAB format

The developer and adopters shall provide the ability to export annotations for selected specimens to MAGE-TAB format for eventual linkage with microarray experiment information and import to caArray.

2.1.6	Query/get specimen information

The developer and adopters shall expand existing grid services to return different specimen information by specified criteria. For example, a user can query a set of available specimens by annotation; or can retrieve annotations by a specimen identifier etc. The developer and adopters shall participate in the integration and help other groups consume these services.

2.1.6.1	Provide an order submission service 

The developer and adopters shall provide a specimen order submission grid service such that other systems can request specimens programmatically under scenarios appropriate to those applications.



The order fulfillment will return a list of available specimens and start the following steps in the process to track and ship the requested specimen.

2.1.7	Integrate caTissue with NES

The developer and adopters shall work with NCI Enterprise Service (NES) team to support Enterprise Service integration  over the caGrid as appropriate.



Some of these services already exist – Person Services, Organization Services, Correlation Services, Protocol  Abstraction Services.  Others services are being developed as part of the next development cycle of the caBIG Cancer Clinical Trial Suite (CCTS) bundle.   Please see the service integration project plan for planned availability of these services.



Note that while the CCTS applications will serve as reference implementations for service definitions other applications may implement the services described in their specifications.  caTissue should be able to connect to any application which implements the particular service specifications.



caTissue should provide configurability as to which instances of any service should be used.

2.1.7.1	Implement Specimen Management Services

The developer and adopters shall work through the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) to establish those aspects of caTissue functionality which it is appropriate to publish as a service standard within caBIG® such that other applications may also implement them. Appropriate architectural support will be provided to describe the services in terms of caBIG®’s evolving Enterprise Conformance and Compliance Framework (ECCF).

2.1.8	Make Dynamic Extensions Grid Compatible 

The developer shall coordinate with VCDE, XC, architecture team and other groups to make data defined through caTissue’s Dynamic Extensions feature grid compatible. 



The Dynamic Extension feature within caTissue shall be enhanced such that those wishing to define new data elements can easily determine that those elements do not already exist.

2.1.9	Integrate with CCTS Applications

The CCTS applications are currently being reengineered to a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) whereby services become the system of record for certain data. This will improve the current situation where each of the applications in the CCTS maintains its own copy of the data. It is the intent that caTissue will integrate with the CCTS by use of these services and that there will be appropriate refactoring of caTissue to implement specimen management services as opposed to storing data internally.



Certain of the services  required by the CCTS have already been implemented as the NCI Enterprise Services (NES). 



These services would most likely be deployed as part of any particular caTissue Suite installation but may also be located remotely.



caTissue shall be configurable such that it may be installed with or without the CCTS applications.  



The developer and adopters shall integrate caTissue with Clinical Trial Suite (CTS) applications such as Patient Registry and Patient Study Calendar.

2.1.9.1	Integrate with Patient Registry (C3PR) 

The developer and adopters shall integrate caTissue with the Cancer Central Clinical Participant Registry (C3PR) such that caTissue and C3PR use a common service for study participants and their registrations to particular protocols. 

2.1.9.2	Integrate with Patient Study Calendar (PSC) 

The developer and adopters shall integrate caTissue with the Patient Study Calendar (PSC) such that both may use a common service for the protocol which defines a study and the steps in that protocol where specimens are collected. The planned and actual specimen collection activities for each participant registered should also be maintained in a common system (service) of record.



The developer and adopters shall integrate caTissue with PSC for following use cases.

When a patient/subject is registered to a study/protocol, a subject-specific study calendar is created.  Specimen collection activities should be visible in caTissue and function exactly as the current “Collection Protocol Events” do in caTissue Suite 1.1 without the subject having to be registered directly in caTissue.

If subject is not already present in the service it shall be possible to register the appropriate records from within caTissue. 

caTissue will update the appropriate services used by PSC to indicate specimens have been collected.

2.1.10	Structured Standard Operating Procedures

caTissue currently records details of how specimens have been processed or handled as events. caTissue Suite 1.2 should introduce the concept of a specimen processing protocol or standard operating procedure (SOP) which specifies processing steps. These protocols may be associated with particular studies (collection protocols) such that all specimens on that study may be described as having been processed according to the SOP.



While the SOP defines the intended processing, the system shall also make provision for quality control of specimen processing to allow tracking and recording of how specimens were actually processed. 



The system should also introduce the concept of a number (batch) of specimens being subjected to the same execution of an SOP such that the parameters of that execution need only be recorded once.



It shall be possible to query specimens according to their processing characteristics irrespective of whether that information is recorded at a specimen or SOP level.

2.1.10.1	Integrate with Biospecimen Research Database (BRD)

caTissue shall be able to retrieve SOPs from the Biospecimen Research Database via a common object model for Standard Operating Procedures.  



The developer will work with the BRD development team to specify the interfaces between these two systems, to coordinate design and development activities, and to develop a prototype to prove their design.



To be more specific, the system shall implement the following use cases.

A caTissue user shall be able to query a list of SOPs from BRD that satisfy his/her specified criteria.

A caTissue user shall be able to query the structure data details for an SOP from BRD.

A caTissue user shall be able to import a SOP from BRD to caTissue and store that SOP in its own object model.

A caTissue user shall be able to create a brand new SOP in caTissue.

A caTissue user shall be able to expose the SOP as the grid service to share.

2.1.11	Implement Common Biorepository Model (CBM) 

The developer shall expand its object model to support CBM according to CBM specification such that caTissue shall pass all tests of CBM test suites. The CBM is defined here (reference).

2.1.12	API and grid service

The appropriate public interfaces to new functionality introduced in caTissue Suite 1.2 shall be determined. These will be implemented as part of caTissue’s Application Programmers Interface (API) and as grid services.



The caTissue API must continue to support the same validation of data that is applied to data entered via the user interface. The API must also require login by a registered user and authenticate it through caBIG® security module.

3.	Scope of Work

The scope of this Statement of Work is:



Activities performed by the Subcontractor in creating formal use cases and software requirement specifications, testing and using the completed caTissue Suite 1.2 application. The scope of work also covers sharing of data on caGrid by the Subcontractor during and beyond the period of performance.



The adopters shall have experiences utilizing or willing to adopt minimum two different caBIG® applications: caTissue and one of following systems: CTS applications, caArray, or caLIMS. The adopters shall describe their past experiences that they have successfully integrated a set of related applications and the role of each application in the related projects. 



Adopter specific tasks include:



Activities performed by the Adopters in the caTissue Suite project as defined in the Project Management Plan (PMP) and enumerated in this document, including but not limited to: 

work closely with the caTissue 1.2 developer and other stakeholders to create requirements and use cases; 

review formal requirements, use cases and user interfaces; 

create test plan, test cases; 

perform testing as determined by test plan, 

participate in prototyping, architecture review, design reviews

verifying and accepting running systems at each iteration

Deployment of caTissue Suite 1.2

Deployment of caTissue Grid Service

Use of the global specimen identifier

Use the integration of caTissue with one or more applications in CCTS or caArray in the adoption site.

Use of caTissue Suite APIs



Note: Please refer to caTissue 1.2 developers RFP to have a deeper understanding of the scope of caTissue 1.2 developer’s tasks. Please refer to the caBIG®Tissue/Biospecimen Banking and Technology Tools Knowledge Center () and gForge  for existing functionalities of caTissue Suite 1.1. You can also find the demo site, end user manual, technical administration guide, deployment guide, UML model in the above reference sites. 



Overall we are seeking a group of adopters who, between them, will exercise all aspects of caTissue Suite 1.2 functionality. To help allocate the tasks and coordinate with other adopters, responders should indicate which aspects of functionality they expect to use and what areas are their expertise. Some adjustment of allocations may occur during selection in order to achieve an overall balance.



Proposals are also welcome which demonstrate integration with other tools which implement or can consume service interfaces specified as caBIG® compatible. For example, it would be suitable to integrate with a patient registry application other than C3PR but which implements the defined caBIG® patient registry service specification.



Proposals must indicate what data would be shared on caGrid as a result of their adoption of caTissue Suite and a plan for continued availability and updating of those datasets beyond the expiration of the contract. Please refer to refer to Data Sharing Security Framework at  for general guidance.



4.	PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND REQUIREMENTS

This project will follow Rational Unified Process (RUP). See Figure 2 for conceptual RUP general phases and detailed process guidance.





Rational Unify Process Phases



Note: This graph is illustrative. The developers will propose and agree with SAIC-F the exact number of iterations, timing in each phase as they see fit. During the execution of the project more detailed plans will be established for each phase and iteration as it approaches. Adopters will be required to participate in establishing their role in each iteration plan.



Developer and Adopters will work together as a team to accomplish many tasks such as composing requirements, system use cases, test plan, test cases, and work together seamlessly during every iterations of the process. For example, during testing period of each iteration, there should be quick and smooth handovers between developers and adaptors to ensure good quality product.

 

TASKS TO BE PERFORMED

The Subcontractor shall be responsible for ensuring the accuracy, timeliness, and completeness of all tasks performed under this effort. The Subcontractor shall work seamless with development team on each of the following tasks. All deliverables shall be used for their intended purpose on the project and shall be reviewed by other members of the project team as defined in the MPP. The status of all deliverables will be tracked by the COTR and final approval will be given by a NCI-CBIIT representative and/or his/her designated representative(s).

Note: Following items are a collection of tasks need to be performed in no particular order. The Subcontractors need to specify which phases these tasks belong to in their proposals and some tasks may iterated over multiple phases/iterations in the RUP process. 

Project Management

Project Management Plan (PMP)

The Subcontractor shall work with the developer and other adopters to develop a Project Management Plan describing the means to accomplish project objectives. The PMP shall:



Include a work breakdown structure (WBS) encompassing planning, tracking, execution, completion activities and milestones for all tasks. Proposed deliverable due dates may be requested per the deliverable schedule in the Deliverables/Deliverables Schedule section below.

Describe the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements for this effort.

Detail the products, methods for producing deliverables, allocation of staff and other resources necessary to produce deliverables, and timelines.

Outline the risk management plan for the project. 



PMP’s shall include an MS Project formatted document including the WBS, and MS Word documents describing any other plans (e.g. Management Approach, Risk).  An initial draft of the PMP shall be submitted with the proposal.  This draft WBS shall encompass any milestone reviews, as well as any requested contractor supplied dates for Deliverables.  Based on review of the PMP, the COTR will provide approval to move forward on planned activities. The Subcontractor shall request prior approval for all activities not included in the PMP or any modifications to the plan after approval has been given. The final PMP, including any approved changes, shall be submitted as a deliverable at the end of the project.



Monthly Status Report

The Subcontractor shall document technical and financial status in detailed Monthly Status Reports. All monthly technical and financial reports will be delivered in the template format provided by the COTR during the project kickoff meeting.  Monthly Status Reports shall be submitted directly to both the COTR and contract specialist.  The monthly report will include information such as the following;  



Program status overview, including status of deliverables/milestones; 

Description of activities completed during the month; 

Description of activities planned for the next month; 

Description of resolution(s) to previously-identified issues/obstacles; 

Delineation of risk factors that may delay completion of planned items and recommended solution(s); 



In addition, the Subcontractor shall participate in periodic status tele-conferences with the COTR at the direction and period as specified by the COTR.  Periodic tele-conferences will be held at no greater than monthly frequency, but focused status tele-conferences to address specific issues may also be requested.



Project Summary Report

The Subcontractor shall submit a Project Summary Report at the conclusion of the project. This report shall describe the work accomplished, issues encountered and resolutions to them, recommendations for future enhancements, potential implementation strategies, and lessons learned. The final version of the project summary report, including any approved changes made during review, shall be delivered to the COTR in electronic form (Microsoft Word™ format) at the completion of the project.

Deliverable: Project Summary Report



Meetings

It is anticipated that there will be weekly conference calls during the process of this project among developer, adopters, SAIC-F COTR and NCI project officer. There will be minimum one face to face meeting in each phase to bring the whole team together. Other meetings with the Subcontractors shall occur as needed to keep the SIAC-F COTR and NCI Project Officer informed regarding the progress of the project. In the absence of formal meetings, contact with the Subcontractor shall occur via phone, fax, or electronic email.



ADOPTER PROJECT ACTIVITIES

This section describes the project activities the Subcontractor performs as an Adopter. The tasks are listed according to the Unified Process phases defined in the MPP.

Operational Documentation refers to the documentation that is required to operate the developed system. This consists of the User Manual, Administrative Guide, Deployment Guide, operating documentation for Dynamic Extensions, and the API.



Participate in Developing Use Cases

The Subcontractor shall, working in collaboration with developer and other Adopters, create use cases for caTissue Suite 2.1. Use case development may involve use of collaboration tools, such as Wiki, to facilitate the collaboration.

Artifact:  Use Case Document



Review Formal Use Cases 

The Subcontractor shall review the formal Use Cases document produced to ensure that all the Use Cases developed by the Adopter are incorporated into the formal documentation.

Artifact:  Track Change Based Review of Use Cases



Participate in Developing Requirements

The Subcontractor shall, working in collaboration with developer and other Adopters, create requirements for caTissue Suite 2.1. 

Artifact:  Requirement Document



Review Requirement and SRS 

Once the development team has created screen mockups for the use cases to be implemented, the Subcontractor shall organize end users of the types defined in the use cases (e.g. tissue bankers, clinicians, and/or scientists) for a cognitive walk through to verify that business requirements are adequately captured by the mock up.

Artifact:  Requirement & SRS Review Report



Participate in End User Cognitive Walkthroughs

Once the development team has created screen mockups and/or prototypes for the use cases to be implemented, end users from adopter sites of the types defined in the use cases (e.g. tissue bankers, clinicians, and/or scientists) will participate in cognitive walkthroughs to verify that business requirements are adequately captured by the mock up.

Artifact:  User Interface Review Report



Validate Running caTissue Systems

As part of the iterative development process, developers will provide frequent running systems with new features in different phases and iterations as defined in the MPP. The Subcontractor shall provide independent assessments of systems provided by the developer in each iteration and report defects and usability issues and other findings back to developers. In most cases it is expected that adopters will evaluate the system hosted by the develop team and accessed over the internet. Evaluation of some aspects of installation and upgrade would require local installation to be performed. Testing of grid deployment would also require local installation.

Artifact:  Iteration Application Review Report



Participate in Architecture and Design Reviews

The Subcontractor shall provide independent assessments of all the architecture and design documents.

Artifact:  Design Review Report



Create Test Cases and Test Scripts

The Subcontractor shall participate in the overall Test Plan, which defines appropriate testing to ensure that all requirements and use cases are met. The Subcontractor shall define individual test cases and scripts required to fulfill those parts of the Test Plan allocated to them. The adopter will be expected to manage all test cases and scripts in test management tool used for the project.

Artifact: Test Cases and Test Scripts 



Perform Test for All Iterations 

The Subcontractor shall test the code releases in all phases and iterations. The Subcontractor shall execute those test scripts allocated to them for each iteration, perform all allocated test cases, record results in the chosen test management tool and report bugs/requests for enhancements to the chosen bug-tracking tool. The Subcontractor shall also conduct end user acceptance testing and report resulting bugs/enhancements to the bug-tracking tool.

Artifact:  Test Report and Entry of Defects in Bug-Tracking Tool



Review Operational Documents

The Subcontractor shall review all operational documents such as User Manual, Administrative Guide, Deployment Guide, Technical Guide etc.

Artifact:  Reviewed Operational Documents (including comments and track change-based edits)





POST caTissue SUITE 1.2 RELEASE

Install and Put caTissue Suite 1.1.x into production environment

The Subcontractor shall deploy caTissue Suite 1.1.x into their production environment and load the instance with realistic data in the early stage of the development cycle. This instance will be used to test the different upgrade paths and data migration scenarios. The Subcontractor shall indicate the size of the dataset.

The Subcontractors shall install other selected caBIG tools such as caArray, PSC, C3PR or LIMs in preparation and load them with realistic data. 

Artifact:  Production Instance of caTissue Suite 1.x with production data. Production of other selected tool instance with production data.



Install and Put caTissue Into Production Use

The Subcontractor shall deploy the caTissue Suite 1.2 into their production environment and migrate all of their production data set to the new Suite 1.2 instance. The Subcontractor shall use the established caTissue Suite 1.2 instance to support tissue management activities at their sites.

Artifact:  Production Instance of caTissue Suite 1.2 with migrated production data



Setup a Grid Node Using caTissue Suite 1.2

The Subcontractor shall deploy a grid node of the caTissue Suite 1.2 instance and make available through such grid node to the Government, SAIC-F, the caBIG Community.  The Subcontractor shall follow the data sharing plan specified in Section L to share data on the grid.

Artifact:  Searchable Grid Instance of caTissue Suite 1.2 with Data Specified in Technical Proposal.



6.	MILESTONES AND DELIVERABLES



Milestone Reviews



In fulfillment of this project, the successful Subcontractor shall prepare for and attend the following meetings and milestone reviews.  Location, procedures, and presentation formats will be determined by the SAIC-F COTR.



6.1.1	Project Kickoff



An initial kick off meeting will be held within 7 calendar days of award or as agreed to by the SAIC-F COTR.  This will be attended by the SAIC-F COTR, SAIC-F Subcontract Specialist, and the NCI Project Officer.  Proposed Key Personnel as well as a contract’s representative from the successful Subcontractor’s organization are required to attend.  The intent of the kickoff is for all key personnel to meet to discuss the project’s overall technical and contractual requirements. 



At this meeting, the successful Subcontractor shall be prepared to discuss the following;



Technical Objectives

Preliminary Management and Research Plans

Discussion of Research Products

Deliverables and Deliverable Acceptance Criteria

caBIG® Compliance and Data Sharing Plan

Reporting and Invoice Requirements



This meeting may also be attended by a caBIG VCDE Mentor, so that requirements with respect to specific caBIG Silver/Gold compliance criteria can be discussed.  Any proposed changes with respect to specific compliance or deliverable acceptance criteria must be provided in writing within 7 days and agreed to by the COTR.

		6.1.2	Requirement, Use Cases Review

Requirements and use case reviews will be scheduled throughout the process crossing many phases and iterations as specified in the project plan.  

.

Adopters will provide requirement and use case review reports after each review. Adopters will provide the UI review report after the end user cognitive walk through sessions.

		6.1.3	Design Reviews 

Design reviews will be scheduled throughout the process crossing many phases and iterations as specified in the project plan.  At this review the Subcontractor will present the current system design including, but not limited to:

Project Charter

Project Use Cases

System Design including

A logical and physical architecture diagram showing where the project fits into the large caBIG community

Class diagram, Sequence diagram, and state diagram to describe detailed design.

Database schema described by Entity Relationship Diagram

Interface descriptions to all external systems including APIs and SOAP messages

A system/subsystem architecture diagram explaining the base functionality of the planned development.

Risks and proposed mechanisms to resolve those risks.



A draft Compatibility package with items 1-4 of the silver submission package;

Brief Description of the data system and its design (a power point presentation to the VCDE and Arch WS.)

Requirements/Specification Document (required to provide context)

Implementation/Design Document (optional:  recommended to provide context)

UML Model (including Diagram) for the data system in a UML 2.0 Complaint modeling tool (EA format preferred but not required) 

Vocabulary standards to be used

List of existing CDEs (including CDE Standards) intended for re-use.



Implementation Plan detailing how the software is to be developed and which contains the plan for grid-enabling any data and analytical services that are to be deployed on caGrid 

An Initial Deployment Plan



All artifacts provided in the design review will be updated and reviewed in each follow up RUP iterations.

6.1.4	Deliverables Readiness Review 

There shall be a deliverables readiness review approximately ¾ through the period of performance. This review will be an opportunity for SAIC-F to determine the quality of the system being developed. At this review the Subcontractor is expected to review current status of all deliverables and in particular;

Updates to all artifacts presented at the Design Review  

All artifacts required for the compatibility submission package

A demonstration of the current status of the system being developed 

All documentation





6.2	Deliverables

	6.2.1	Deliverable List and Due Dates

The Subcontractor shall coordinate timelines for all task items and deliverables specified in Section 5 Tasks to be Performed with the developer and other adopters and follow the timeline in Master Project Plan.



Acceptance criteria for each of these deliverables are given below. 

	6.2.2	Format and Delivery

Monthly Reports and any documents containing sensitive information such as financials shall be sent via email directly to both the COTR and SAIC-F Contracts Specialist.  These reports shall be sent in the format as specified by the COTR.  



Documentation deliverables other than those described above shall be in MS Office Format and placed on the GForge project page associated with the project.  The COTR will provide direction regarding the specific GForge location. The Subcontractor shall submit all software deliverables in electronic media to Concurrent Version System (SVN) on the GForge project page associated with the project as specified by the SAIF-F COTR. 



A notification of upload or subsequent updates to any deliverables on GForge shall be forwarded via email to both the COTR and the SAIC-F contracts specialist.

	6.2.3	Specific Deliverable Acceptance Criteria

Specific Acceptance Criteria

The following specific criteria will be used when evaluating deliverables listed above.



Deliverable: Project Management Plan

Acceptance Criteria: The project management plan shall include the following;

Project Schedule; The Project schedule shall be delivered in MS Project format.  It shall include a hierarchical set of tasks representing the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) required for the Subcontractor to successfully complete the tasks given in this statement of work.  Task dependencies, task dates, resource loading, and updated milestones and deliverable dates shall all be included.  



Management Approach; The Management Approach shall be an MS Word formatted document describing the organizational resources and management controls employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements as outlined in the project schedule. This shall detail the products, methods for producing deliverables, allocation of staff and other resources necessary to produce deliverables, and timelines, and any Government Furnished Information/Equipment expected from the Government (GFE/I).  A risk management plan shall be included that outlines project risks, potential severity of those risks, and mitigation strategies for those risks.



Acceptable Project Management Plans will include the above information, in the formats requested, in sufficient detail to cover all tasks requested in this RFP.



Deliverable: Monthly Status Report

Acceptance Criteria: The monthly status report shall be delivered in the template supplied by the COTR with all fields completed.  Any exceptions must be approved by the COTR.  It shall be sent via email directly to the SAIC-COTR and Subcontracts Specialist.  Acceptable Monthly Status reports will contain the complete set of requested information in the format requested. Acceptable monthly status reports shall be in MS Word format and follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable: Project Summary Report

Acceptance Criteria: The Project Summary Report shall be delivered in Microsoft Word format and shall describe the work accomplished against each task in this Statement of Work and its success in meeting the goals and objectives of the project. All products produced by this work shall be described.  Any issues encountered, resolutions, and lessons learned shall also be given.  For any project deploying Grid Services, either Analytical or Data, a sustainment plan for these services should be included. Acceptable Project Summary Reports will include all of the above information, in sufficient detail so that a reader familiar with this RFP will be able to judge progress against all tasks in the Statement of Work contained herein. Acceptable project summary reports shall be in MS Word format and follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )





Deliverable: System and Software Test Plan

Acceptance Criteria: The System and Software test plan shall describe at a minimum, what is to be tested and what are the criteria for passing each test, the strategy to be employed for each test, the testing environment (Hardware/Software to be employed), and the testing schedule.  Acceptable System and Software Test plan and test scripts will be those that provide complete test coverage both from a User perspective, i.e. can be traced to all steps of the delivered use cases, and from a functional perspective, i.e. that can be traced to all requirements and newly developed features and functions implied by the system and software detailed design. Acceptable system and software test plan shall be in MS Word format and follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )





Deliverable: Test Results

Acceptance Criteria: Test results shall be recorded in test management tool used for the project.  This must include a description of the actual test scripts run and the results for all test cases described in the System and Software Test Plan.  The documentation of the test procedures must be given in sufficient detail so that the COTR will be able to determine whether the test provided adequate coverage of the feature or function being tested.  Deliveries of actual test scripts are acceptable as long as a text-based summary of each is also provided.  Conditions under which each test was run shall be described together with a description of whether the test was passed or not according to the criteria stated in the Test Plan.  Test Results Deliverable will not be accepted until evidence has been given that all tests in the test plan have successfully been executed and all tests have passed, unless exceptions are specifically allowed by the COTR.  The COTR may request a visual demonstration of tests specified in the Test Plan as part of final acceptance.

Test scripts, test results and their corresponding requirements, use cases shall be properly recorded and managed in the proposed requirement tracking and test management tools. Defects reported shall be managed in the proposed bug tracking tools. A dashboard report shall be provided to show COTR and NCI PO the testing status, bug fixing status at any time in real time. Acceptable rest results report shall be in MS Word format and follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  ) Test status dashboard shall follow 508 compliance (36CFR, subpart B, § 1194.22,  )











	






Appendix A: ACRONYM

The following terminology is used throughout this document:

Adopter – an organization with a formal relationship with the Developer that serves as a site for formal testing, validation, and application of developed products or solutions.

BRD - Biospecimen Research Database

CBM - Common Biorepository Model

CDE – Common Data Element

CRF – Case Report Form

CTS – Clinical Trial Suite

Cross-Cutting Workspaces – the Architecture (ARCH) Workspace and Vocabularies and Common Data Elements (VCDE) Workspace constitute the Cross-Cutting Workspaces. 

Developer – an organization selected and funded by the NCI-CBIIT to participate in a specific Workspace and undertake software/solution development and implementation activities. For a full list of the responsibilities of a caBIGTM Developer, see the caBIGTM Overview Workspace & Working Group Kick-off Meeting Handbook distributed in February, 2004 ().

ECCF - Enterprise Conformance and Compliance Framework

NCI-CBIIT – National Cancer Institute Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology

NCI-PO – NCI-Project Officer

PSC – Patient Study Calendar

COTR – SAIC Frederick, Inc. Contracting Officer's Technical Representative 

SOW – Statement of Work

SPORES – Specialized Programs of Research Excellence





SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



1.  Subcontract No.

29XS204

1.  Subcontract No.

29XS204

1.  Subcontract No.

29XS204

1.  Subcontract No.

29XS204

1.  Subcontract No.

29XS204

2.  Solicitation No.

S09-204



2.  Solicitation No.

S09-204



2.  Solicitation No.

S09-204



2.  Solicitation No.

S09-204



3.  Date Issued

01/20/2010



3.  Date Issued

01/20/2010



3.  Date Issued

01/20/2010



Page 1 of 62

Page 1 of 62

Page 1 of 62

Page 1 of 62

Page 1 of 62



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0537



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0537



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0537



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0537



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0537



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON FEBRUARY 19, 2010. 



12.	FOR INFORMATION CALL:



12.	FOR INFORMATION CALL:



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 4:00 p.m. (EST) January 29, 2010.



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE



ITEM NO.



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



QTY.



QTY.



QTY.



QTY.



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



AMOUNT







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6



































13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



DATE



DATE



DATE



DATE



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



DATE



DATE



DATE



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)











































































15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)











































































16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:



18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

20.	Date

20.	Date

20.	Date

20.	Date

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



22.	Amount:



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



23.	Accounting Data:  201021769202



24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



26.	Award Date



26.	Award Date



Subcontract Period

Period Covered

Price

Status

Base Period

18-months from Date of Award







Subcontract Period

Period Covered

Status

Base Period

Eighteen (18) Months from Date of Award

Exercised at Award

Option Period One (1)

Six (6) Months Following Base Period Expiration

Not Exercised



Greg Korzeniewski

Greg Korzeniewski

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-402-9794

Telephone:  301-402-9794

E-mail:   

E-mail:   





Michelle Lee

Michelle Lee

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-402-7476

E-mail:  



Kim Iman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-228-4033

E-mail:  







PRINT NAME



TITLE



ORGANIZATION



ADDRESS



ADDRESS



PHONE NUMBER



FAX NUMBER



E-MAIL ADDRESS





PRINT NAME



TITLE



ORGANIZATION



ADDRESS



ADDRESS



PHONE NUMBER



FAX NUMBER



E-MAIL ADDRESS



NAME



TITLE





















FAR 

Clause No.



Clause Title





52.203-3

Gratuities 

52.203-5

Covenant Against Contingent Fees

52.203-6

Restrictors on Subcontractor Sales to the Government

52.203-7

Anti-Kickback Procedures

52.203-8

Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for illegal or Improper Activity

52.203-10

Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity

52.203-11

Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions

52.203-12

Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions

52.203-13

Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct

52.203-14

Display of Hotline Posters

52.204-4

Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper

52.209-6

Protecting the Government’s Interests When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment

52.215-2

Audit and Records – Negotiation

52.215-10

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data

52.215-12

Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data

52.215-14

Integrity of Unit Prices 

52.215-15

Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions

52.215-18

Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other than Pensions

52.215-19

Notification of Ownership Changes

52.215-21

Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data—Modifications

52.219-8

Utilization of Small Business Concerns 

52.219-9

Small Business Subcontracting Plan

52.219-16

Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan

52.222-3

Convict Labor

52.222-21

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities

52.222-25

Affirmative Action Compliance

52.222-26

Equal Opportunity

52.222-35

Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans

52.222-36

Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities

52.222-37

Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans

52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons

52.223-6

Drug-Free Workplace

52.223-14

Toxic Chemical Release Reporting

52.225-1

Buy American Act—Supplies

52.225-13

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases

52.227-1

Authorization and Consent, Alternate I 

52.227-11

Patent Rights—Ownership by the Contractor

52.227-14

Rights in Data – General

52.232-23

Assignment of Claims

52.242-13

Bankruptcy

52.242-15

Stop Work Order

52.244-2

Subcontracts

52.245-1

Government Property

52.245-9

Use and Charges

52.246-4

Inspection of Services – Fixed-Price 

52.246-25

Limitation of Liability – Services



HHSAR Clause No.



Clause Title

352.249-14

Excusable Delays

352.270-5

Key Personnel

352.270-7

Paper Reduction Act



1.



SAIC Frederick Terms and Conditions (dated 10/2007)







2.



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Invoice Instructions







3.



Subcontracting Certification







4.



Price List







5.



caBIG® Data Sharing Plan Content Guideline







6.



Section C – RFP Statement of Objectives









Report shall be submitted by the Subcontractor and included with the invoice under which reimbursement for the acquisition of authorized accountable personal property is requested.  



1.	Enter date prepared.

2.	Enter Public Voucher (or invoice) Number

3.	Enter complete contract number.

4.	Enter number of this report.  (Reports will be numbered serially beginning with No. 1 for each subcontract).  Enter page number of pages.

5.	Enter name and telephone number of Subcontractor’s representative responsible for report.

6.	Indicate type of report.

7.	Enter name of responsible party and physical address for which the equipment will be located.  

	If separate pieces of equipment are purchased and are placed at different locations, submit a separate report for each location.

8.	Leave Blank.  For Contracting Agency Use Only.

9.	Enter Line Item Number.  Each Report shall begin with the Number 1.

10-14.	Identify fully the property being reported.

15.	Enter unit Acquisition Cost of the item.

16.	This item shall be completed for inventory reporting.  For Government Owned property, enter identification number.

17.	Leave Blank

18.	Enter month and year property was received as reflected on receipt.

19.	Enter signature and title of person authorized to certify the accuracy of the report.

20.	Leave Blank.  For Contracting Agency Use Only.





REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



1.  Date







2.  Public Voucher No.







2.  Public Voucher No.







2.  Public Voucher No.







REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



3.  Contract No.







4.  Report No.







Page No.

1



No. of Pages

1



5.  Person Responsible



     Telephone:







6.  Type of Report



 Acquisition - Govt. Titled

 Acquisition - Contractor Titled

 Annual Inventory

 Final Inventory



7.  Name and Address of Contractor







7.  Name and Address of Contractor







8.  SAIC Use Only







8.  SAIC Use Only









9. Item No.



10. Description



10. Description



11. GFP/CAP



12. Manufacturer



13. Model



14. Serial



15. Cost



16. Govt. ID



17. Acq. Aut.



17. Acq. Aut.



18. Date

















































































































































































































































































































































19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







Voucher No.







Voucher No.







Name (Typed)







Name (Typed)







Title







Title







Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Date







Date







Data Element

De-Identified Data Set*

Limited
Data Set

Names

Remove

Remove

Address, city and other geographic information smaller than state. 3-digit zip code may be included in a de-identified data set for an area where more than 20,000 people live; use “000” if fewer than 20,000 people live there.

Remove

Remove postal address information other than city, town, state or zip code.

All elements of dates (except year); plus age and any date (including year) if age is over 89. Examples: date of birth, date of death, date of admission, date of discharge, date of service.

Remove

May be included.

Telephone, fax numbers; e-mail addresses, web URL addresses, IP addresses.

Remove

Remove

Social security number, medical record number, health plan beneficiary number, any account number, certificate or license number.

Remove

Remove

Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers.

Remove

Remove

Device identifiers and serial numbers.

Remove

Remove

Biometric identifiers (e.g., fingerprints; voice prints). DNA is not considered a biometric identifier for purposes of HIPAA.

Remove

Remove

Full-face photographs and any comparable images.

Remove

Remove

Any other unique identifying number, characteristic or code. 

Remove†

May be included.



MILESTONE

DUE DATE

Project Kickoff

7 Days after Authority to Proceed

Requirement, use cases review

According to initiative project plan

Design Reviews

SubcontractorAccording to initiative project plan

Deliverables Readiness Reviews

SubcontractorThroughout the process according to the initiative project plan

Test plan & test scripts

According to initiative project plan

Continue to maintain and grow the migrated dataset in caTissue 1.2 for additional 6 month.

6 months after the caTissue 1.2 is deployed to production.