
1.    GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP
This Order is made by SAIC-Frederick, Inc., a Subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation under its contract with  the  National
Cancer Institute at Frederick (NCI-Frederick).  The provisions and clauses contained herein are influenced by and  reflect  the  relationship  of
the parties in that contract, which was awarded and is administered under the provision of the Federal Acquisition Regulation  (FAR).   There  is
no privity of contract between the Seller and the Government.

2. GENERAL RELATIONSHIP

The Seller is not an employee of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. for any purpose whatsoever.  Seller agrees that in all matters relating to  this  Order  it
shall be acting as an independent contractor and shall assume and pay all liabilities and perform all obligations imposed  with  respect  to  the
performance of this Order.  Seller shall have no right, power or authority to create any obligation, expressed or implied,  on  behalf  of  Buyer
and/or Buyer’s customers and shall have no authority to represent Buyer as an agent.

3. DEFINITIONS

Buyer – SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Seller – The party (contractor) receiving the award from SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Prime Contract − The Government contract under which this Order is issued   (see paragraph 1 entitled "Government Relationship").  

NCI Government Contracting Officer −The  NCI-Frederick person  with  the  authority  to interpret,  modify,  administer,  and/or  otherwise  make
decisions with regard to the Prime Contract". This term includes authorized representatives  of  the  NCI-Frederick  Contracting  Officer  within
their delegated authority.

Contracting Officer – The SAIC-Frederick, Inc. person with the authority to enter into and  administer  Orders.   The  term  includes  authorized
representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within their delegated authority.

Order – The contractual agreement between SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and the Seller.

Special Definitions – See paragraph 4 for the special definitions that apply in the use of the solicitation and award clauses of this Order.



4. SOLICITATION AND AWARD CLAUSES – SPECIAL DEFINITIONS

FAR clauses included in this Order, including any solicitation document, shall be interpreted as follows:

Unless a purposeful distinction is made clear and the context of the clause requires retention of the original definition, the term  “Contractor”
shall mean Seller, the term “Contract” shall mean this Order, the term “Subcontractor” shall mean subcontractors of Seller at any tier,  and  the
terms “Government”, “Contracting Officer” and equivalent phrases shall  mean  SAIC-Frederick,  Inc.  and  SAIC-Frederick’s  Contracting  Officer,
respectively.  It is intended that the referenced clauses shall apply to Seller in such manner as is necessary to reflect the position of  Seller
as a contractor to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to insure Seller’s obligations to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and  to  the  United  States  Government,  and  to
enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to meet its obligations under its Prime Contract.

Full text of the referenced clauses may be found in the FAR (Code of Federal Regulation [CFR] Title 48), obtainable from  the  Superintendent  of
Documents, Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC  20402 or online at http://www.arnet.gov/far/.

Copies of the clauses will be furnished by the Contracting Officer upon request.

5.    ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Order, including all attachments and/or documents incorporated by reference by Buyer, shall constitute the entire  agreement  between  Buyer
and Seller.  No other document (including Seller’s proposal, quotation or acknowledgement forms, etc.) shall be a part of  this  Order,  even  if
referred to, unless specifically agreed to in writing by Buyer. No right that Buyer has regarding this Order may be waived or modified except  in
writing by Buyer.

6.     ACCEPTANCE AND MODIFICATION OF TERMS

Acceptance of this Order by Seller may be made by signing the acknowledgement copy hereof or by  partial  performance  hereunder,  and  any  such
acceptance shall constitute an unqualified agreement to all terms and conditions set forth herein unless otherwise modified  in  writing  by  the
parties.  Any additions, deletions or differences in the terms proposed by Seller are objected  to  and  hereby  rejected,  unless  Buyer  agrees
otherwise in writing.  No additional or different terms and conditions proposed by the Seller in accepting  this  Order  shall  be  binding  upon
Buyer unless accepted in writing by Buyer and no other addition, alteration or modification to, and no waiver of any  of  the  provisions  herein
contained shall  be  valid  unless  made  in  writing  and  executed  by  Buyer  and  Seller.   Seller  shall  perform  in  accordance  with  the
Description/Quantity schedule set forth in this Order and all attachments thereto.

7. LEGAL CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATIONS

This Order shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the principles of Federal  Contract  Law,  and  to  the  extent  that  Federal
Contract Law is not dispositive, and the state law becomes applicable, the law of the State of Maryland shall apply.

8.    COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS

    Seller shall submit all certifications required by Buyer under this Order and shall at all  times,  at  its  own  expense,  comply  with  all
applicable Federal, State and local laws, ordinances, administrative orders, rules or regulations.

9.    GIFTS

Seller shall not make or offer a gratuity or gift of any kind to Buyer’s employees or their families. Seller should note that  the  providing  of
gifts or attempting to provide gifts under government subcontracts might be a violation of the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (4 U.S.C. 51-58).

10.  MARYLAND SALES AND USE TAX

The State of Maryland has issued Direct Payment Permit #3, effective date August 29, 1996,  to  SAIC-Frederick,  Inc.  that  will  be  issued  to
vendors of NCI-Frederick for  purchases of goods and services. A copy of this Permit is available to vendors upon request.   As  a  holder  of  a
Direct Payment Permit, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. is authorized to make direct payment of sales and use tax to the  State  of  Maryland.   Accordingly,
sellers that provide goods and services to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. are relieved from collecting sales  tax  from  SAIC-Frederick,  Inc.   Therefore,
sellers to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. shall not place a separate line item for tax on any invoice sent to SAIC-Frederick, Inc.  Please  note  that  the
Permit is not to be used by sellers to make purchases free of sales tax, nor shall the Permit be transferred or assigned.


11.    BUYER FURNISHED DATA AND MATERIALS

Seller agrees that it will keep confidential and not disclose, disseminate or publish the features of any  equipment,  tools,  gauges,  patterns,
designs, drawings, engineering data, computer programs and software or other technical or proprietary information furnished, loaned or bailed  by
Buyer hereunder (hereinafter collectively referred to as (items/information), and will use such items/information  only  in  the  performance  of
this Order or, if authorized, other orders from Buyer, and not otherwise without Buyer’s written consent.

All such items furnished, loaned or bailed by Buyer hereunder, or fabricated, manufactured, purchased, or otherwise acquired by  Seller  for  the
performance of this Order and specifically charged to Buyer, are the property of Buyer.

Upon completion, expiration or termination of this Order, Seller shall return all such items in good condition, reasonable  wear  only  excepted,
together with all spoiled and surplus items to Buyer, or make such other disposition thereof as may be directed or  approved  by  Buyer.   Seller
agrees to replace, at its expense, all such items not so returned. Seller shall make no charge for any storage, maintenance or retention of  such
items.  Seller shall bear all risk of loss for all such items in Seller’s possession.

Seller also agrees to use any designs or data contained or embodied in such items in accordance with  any  restrictive  legends  placed  on  such
items by Buyer or any third party.  If Buyer furnishes any material, for fabrication hereunder, Seller agrees: (i)  not to substitute  any  other
material for such fabrication with Buyer’s prior written consent, and (ii) that title to such material shall not be affected by incorporation  in
or attachment to any other property.

12.     NOTICE OF DELAY

Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer in writing of any actual or potential delay in  Sellers  performance  under  this  Order.  Such  notice
shall, at a minimum, describe the cause, effect, duration and corrective action proposed by Seller to address  the  problem.  Seller  shall  give
prompt written notice to the Buyer of all changes to such conditions.

13.   CHANGES AND SUSPENSION

Buyer may, by written notice to Seller at any time, make changes within the general scope of this Order in any one  or  more  of  the  following:
(a) drawings, designs or specifications; (b) quantity; (c) time or place of delivery; (d) method of shipment or packing; and (e) the quantity  of
Buyer furnished property.  Buyer may, for any reason, direct Seller to suspend, in whole  or  in  part,  delivery  of  goods  or  performance  of
services hereunder for such period of time as may be determined by Buyer in its sole discretion.  If any  such  change  or  suspension  causes  a
material increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for the performance of any part of the work under  this  Order,  an  equitable
adjustment shall be made in the Order price or delivery schedule, or both, provided Seller shall have notified Buyer in writing of any claim  for
such adjustment within twenty (20) days from the date of notification of the change or suspension from Buyer.  No such adjustment  or  any  other
modification of the terms of this Order will be allowed unless authorized by Buyer by means of a  written  modification  to  the  Order.   Seller
shall proceed with the work as changed without interruption and without awaiting settlement of any such claim.

14.   ADVERTISING

Seller agrees that prior to the issuance of any publicity or publication of any advertising that in either case makes reference  to  this  Order,
or to Buyer, Seller will obtain the written permission of Buyer with respect thereto.

15.    CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Seller shall not at any time, even after the expiration or termination of this Order, use or disclose to any person for any  purpose  other  than
to perform this Order, any information it receives, directly or indirectly from Buyer in connection with this Order, except information  that  is
or becomes publicly available, or is rightfully received by Seller from a third party without restriction. Upon request by  Buyer,  Seller  shall
return to Buyer all documentation and other material containing such information.

16.    INDEMNIFICATION

Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all claims,  liabilities,  damages,  losses,  causes  of  action,
lawsuits, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and litigation costs incurred in connection therewith and regardless of  legal
theory (hereinafter referred to as ”claims”), occasioned wholly or in part by any act or omission of Seller or any of its lower tiers,  or  their
employees, agents or representatives arising out of or relating to this Order.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller’s  obligations  under  this
Section shall not apply to any claims that are finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be occasioned solely by the  negligence
or willful misconduct of Buyer.

17.   INFRINGEMENT INDEMNITIES

Seller shall, at its expense, indemnify, defend, save and hold Buyer and its successors, affiliates, officers  ,  directors,  employees,  agents,
independent contractors and customers, and the officers, agents and employees of such customers (hereinafter collectively  referred  to  in  this
section as “Buyer”)  harmless from and against any and all damages, liabilities, penalties, interest and costs  awarded  against  and  reasonable
expenses, including without limitation attorneys’ fees that result or arise  out  of  or  relate  to,  in  whole  or  part,  any  claims,  suits,
proceedings, actions, causes of action and demands brought against the  Buyer  asserting  that  the  deliverables,  including  without  delivery,
including without limitation all software, goods or services, or any part thereof, furnished under this Order, or  the  creation,  delivery,  use
modification, reproduction, release,  performance,  display  or  disclosure,  including   without  limitation  resale  or  sublicensing  thereof,
constitutes an infringement of any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other proprietary or intellectual property right  or  rights  of
privacy or publicity.  In the event such goods or services or use thereof are enjoined in whole or in part,  Seller  shall  at  its  expense  and
Buyer’s option undertake one of the following: (i) obtain for Buyer the right to continue the use of such goods or services;  (ii)  in  a  manner
acceptable to Buyer, substitute equivalent goods or services or make modifications thereto so as to  avoid  such  infringement  and  extend  this
indemnity thereto; or (iii)  refund to Buyer an amount equal to the purchase price for such goods or services plus any excess costs  or  expenses
incurred in obtaining substitute goods or services from another source.

Notwithstanding this Section 17, should the deliverables or portion thereof be held to constitute an infringement  and  use  as  contemplated  by
this Order  be enjoined or be threatened to be enjoined, Seller shall notify Buyer and immediately, at Seller’s expense; (i)  procure  for  Buyer
the right to continue to use the deliverables or portion thereof with a  version  that  is  non-infringing,  provided  that  the  replacement  or
modified version meets any applicable specifications to Buyer’s satisfaction.  If (i) or (ii) are not available to Seller,  in  addition  to  any
damages or expenses reimbursed under this section, Seller shall refund to Buyer all amounts paid to Seller by Buyer under this Order.





18.    NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS

      The failure of Buyer to insist upon strict performance of any of the terms and conditions in this  Order  or  to  exercise  any  rights  or
remedies, shall not be construed as a waiver of its rights to assert any of same or to  rely  on  any  such  terms  or  conditions  at  any  time
thereafter.  Acceptance or payment of any part of the Order shall not bind Buyer to accept  future  shipments  or  performance  of  services  nor
deprive Buyer of the right to return goods already accepted or for which Buyer has made payment.  Acceptance or payment shall not  be  deemed  to
be a  waiver of Buyer’s right to cancel or return all or any part of the goods because of failure to  conform  to  the  Order  or  by  reason  of
defects, whether latent or patent, or other breach of warranty, or to make any claim for damages of any and all kind.

19.  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION

If this Order entails effort on a Government installation, including any off-site buildings owned or leased by the Government,  the  Seller  must
provide and maintain the minimum amounts of insurance stated below.

At Buyer’s request, Seller agrees to provide Certificates of Insurance evidencing  that  the  required  insurance  coverages  are  in  force  and
providing not less than thirty days written notice prior to any cancellation or restrictive modification of the policies.

Further, the required insurance coverages below shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be  maintained
by Buyer.  The below required coverages and their limits in no way lessen nor affect Seller’s other obligations or liabilities set forth in  this
Order.

   Seller agrees to purchase and maintain at its own expense the following insurance coverages with minimum limits as stated:

i) Statutory Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability in an amount no  less  than  $1  Million  per  occurrence  covering  its  employees,
   including a waiver of subrogation obtained from the carrier in favor of Buyer;

ii) Commercial General Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per each occurrence and  $2  Million  in  this  Aggregate  covering  bodily
   injury, broad form property damage, personal injury, products and completed operations, contractual liability  and  independent  contractors’
   liability.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds and a waiver of subrogation shall be obtained from the
   carrier in favor of Buyer;

iii) Automobile Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million Combined Single Limit for Bodily Injury covering use of all owned, non-owned,  and
   hired vehicles.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds on the policy;

iv) Professional Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per occurrence covering  damages  caused  by  any  acts,  errors,  and  omissions
   arising out of the professional services performed by Seller, or any person for whom the Seller  is  legally  liable.   To  the  extent  that
   coverage for Seller’s services are not excluded in (ii) above by virtue of being deemed not of a professional nature, this  requirement  does
   not apply.

v) All-Risk Property Insurance in an amount adequate to replace property, including supplies covered by this  Order,  of  Buyer  and/or  Buyer’s
   customer that may be in the possession or control of Seller.  Buyer shall be named as a Loss Payee with respect to loss  or  damage  to  said
   property and/or supplies furnished by Buyer.

The required insurance coverages above shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be maintained by  Buyer
and notwithstanding any provision contained  herein,  Seller,  and  its  employees,  agents,  representatives,  consultants,  subcontractors  and
suppliers, are not insured by the Buyer, and are not covered under any policy of insurance that the Buyer has obtained or has in place.

Any self-insured retentions, deductibles and exclusions in coverage in the policies required under this Article shall  be  assumed  by,  for  the
account of, and at the sole risk of Seller which provides the insurance and to the extent applicable shall be paid by Seller.  In no event  shall
the liability of Seller be limited to the extent of any insurance or the minimum limits required herein.

20.   EXPORT CONTROL COMPLIANCE FOR     FOREIGN PERSONS

Seller shall not, nor shall Seller authorize or permit its employees,  agents  or  lower  tiers  to  disclose,  export  or  re-export  any  Buyer
information, or any process, product or services that is produced under this Order, without prior notification to Buyer and  complying  with  all
applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including the regulations of the U.S. Department  of  Commerce  and/or  the
U.S. Department of State.  In addition, Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer if Seller  is  listed  on  any  of  the  Department  of  State,
Treasury or Commerce proscribed persons or destinations lists, or if Seller’s export privileges are otherwise denied,  suspended  or  revoked  in
whole or in part.

Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, Buyer conducts research activities that  include  export-controlled  technology  that  cannot  be  readily
segregated.  Buyer may require Seller (including any lower tiers) to place restrictions on their work force performing onsite at  SAIC-Frederick,
Inc. to protected individuals as established under the guidelines of the Commerce Department Export  Administration  Regulations  (EAR)  and  the
State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).


Contractors (including any lower tiers) may be required to disclose the status of personnel proposed to perform work onsite prior to award.

Contractors shall include in all agreements and related documents with lower tiers, notice to third parties  that  the  export  of  any  process,
goods and/or technical data from the United States may require an export control license from the U.S. Government and  that,  failure  to  obtain
such export control license may result in termination of Order, and/or criminal liability under U.S. laws.

21.   ASSIGNMENT


Neither this Order nor any interest herein may be assigned, in whole or in part, without the prior written  consent  of  Buyer  except  that  the
Seller shall have the right to assign this Order to any successor of such party  by  way  of  merger  or  consolidation  or  the  acquisition  of
substantially all of the business and assets of the Seller relating to the subject matter of this Order.  This right shall be  retained  provided
that such successor shall expressly assume all of the obligations and liabilities of the Seller under this  Order,  and  that  the  Seller  shall
remain liable and responsible to Buyer for the performance and observance of all such obligations.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amounts due the Seller may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of the clause  52.232-23,  Assignment
of Claims.

In the event the prime contract of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. with the Government is succeeded by a successor contractor selected  by  the  Government,
this Order may be assigned to the successor contractor.

22.    DISPUTES

(A) If a decision relating to the Prime Contract is made by the NCI-Frederick Contracting Officer and such  decision  is  also  related  to  this
Order, said decision, if binding upon Buyer under the Prime Contract shall in turn be binding upon Buyer and Seller with respect to such  matter;
provided, however, that if Seller disagrees with any such decision made by the NCI Contracting Officer and Buyer elects not to  appeal  any  such
decision, Seller shall have the right reserved to Buyer under the Prime Contract with the Government to prosecute a timely appeal in the name  of
Buyer, as permitted by the contract or by law, Seller to bear its own legal and other costs.  If Buyer elects not to appeal  any  such  decision,
Buyer agrees to notify Seller in a timely fashion after receipt of such decision and to assist Seller in its prosecution of any  such  appeal  in
every reasonable manner.  If Buyer elects to appeal any such decision of the NCI Contracting Officer, Buyer agrees to furnish Seller promptly  of
a copy of such appeal. Any decision upon appeal, if binding upon Buyer, shall in turn  be  binding  upon  Seller.   Pending  the  making  of  any
decision, either by the NCI Contracting Officer or on appeal, Seller shall proceed diligently with performance of this Order. 
 
If, as a result of any decision or judgment which is binding upon Seller and Buyer, as provided above, Buyer  is  unable  to  obtain  payment  or
reimbursement from the Government under the Prime Contract for, or is required to refund or credit to the Government, any amount with respect  to
any item or matter for which the Buyer has  reimbursed  or  paid  Seller,  Seller  shall,  on  demand,  promptly  repay  such  amount  to  Buyer.
Additionally, pending the final conclusion of any appeal hereunder, Seller shall, on demand promptly repay any such  amount  to  Buyer.   Buyer's
maximum liability for any matter connected with or related to this Order which was properly the subject of a claim against the  Government  under
the Prime Contract shall not exceed the amount of the Buyer's recovery from the Government.
 
Seller agrees to provide certification that data supporting any claim made by Seller hereunder is made in good  faith  and  that  the  supporting
data is accurate and complete to the best of the Seller's knowledge or belief, all in accordance with the requirements of the Contracts  Disputes
Act of 1978 (41USC601-613) and implementing regulations. If any claim of Seller is determined to be based on  upon  fraud  or  misrepresentation,
Seller agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold Buyer harmless for any and all liability, loss, cost, or expense resulting there from.
 
Any dispute not addressed in paragraph (A) above, will be subject to paragraph (B) as described below.

(B) Buyer and Seller agree to first enter into negotiations to resolve any controversy, claim or dispute (“dispute”) arising  under  or  relating
to this Order.  The parties agree to negotiate in good faith to reach a mutually agreeable resolution of such dispute within a reasonable  period
of time.  If good faith negotiations are unsuccessful, Buyer and Seller agree to  resolve  the  dispute  by  binding  and  final  arbitration  in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The arbitration  shall  take  place  in
the County of Frederick, State of Maryland.  The arbitrator(s) shall be bound to follow the provisions of this Order in  resolving  the  dispute,
and may not award punitive damages.  The decision of the arbitrator(s) shall be  final  and  binding  on  the  parties,  and  any  award  of  the
arbitrator(s) may be entered or enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.

Seller hereby waives any immunity, sovereign or otherwise, that it would otherwise  have  to  such  jurisdiction  and  agrees  that  its  rights,
obligations, and liabilities hereunder shall be determined in the same manner and to the same extent as those of a private  litigant  under  like
circumstances.

All costs of the arbitration shall be shared equally between the Parties, but the Parties specifically agree  that  each  Party  shall  bear  the
expense of any costs incurred by it for its own counsel, experts, witnesses, preparation of documents, presentations, and  logistics  related  to
the proceedings.

Pending any decision, appeal or judgment referred to in this provision or the settlement of any dispute arising under this  Order,  Seller  shall
proceed diligently with the performance of this Order.





23.   NOTIFICATION OF DEBARMENT/SUSPENSION

By acceptance of this Order either in writing or by performance, Seller certifies that as of the date of award of this Order neither the  Seller,
lower tiers, nor any of its principals, is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment  by  the  Federal  Government.  Further,  Seller  shall
provide immediate written notice to the Buyer in the event that during performance of  this  Order  the  Seller  or  any  of  its  principals  is
debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government.

24.    QUALITY ASSURANCE/INSPECTION

All goods furnished and services performed pursuant hereto shall be subject to inspection and test by Buyer at all reasonable times  and  places,
during the Order term, and in any event, prior to Final Acceptance as that term is defined in the Statement of Work.  No  inspection  made  prior
to Final Acceptance shall relieve Seller from responsibility for defects or other to meet the failure requirements of this Order.  In  the  event
that goods furnished or services supplied are not in accordance with the Statement of  Work  and  Schedule  or  other  requirements;   Buyer  may
require Seller to promptly correct, repair, replace or re-perform the goods or services.  The cost of correction,  repair,  replacement,  or  re-
performance shall be determined under Section 7 of this Order.  If Seller fails to proceed with reasonable promptness  to  perform  the  required
correction, repair, replacement, or re-performance, Buyer may terminate the Order for default.  If Seller is unable to accomplish the  foregoing,
then Buyer may procure such materials and services from another source or perform such services in-house  and  charge  to  Seller’s  account  all
costs, expenses and damages associated therewith.  Buyer’s approval of designs furnished by Seller shall not relieve Seller  of  its  obligations
hereunder.

25.    ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between these SAIC Terms and Conditions and the Order issued, the inconsistency  or  conflict  shall
be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:

1) The Order including SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Standard Terms and Conditions, Exhibits thereto and any provisions.

2)  Specifications and/or drawings.

3)  Other documents or exhibits when attached.

26.    TERMINATION

Termination for Convenience

1)  Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Order, in whole or in part, at any time, without cause, by providing written notice  to  Seller.
Upon receiving notice of such termination, Seller shall:

    a)  stop all work on this Order on the date and to the extent specified;

    b)  place no further contracts hereunder except as may be necessary for completing such portions of the Order that have not been  terminated;
and

   c)  terminate all contracts to the extent that they may relate to portions of the Order that have been terminated; and

   d)  protect all property in which Buyer has or may acquire an interest and deliver such property to Buyer.

2)   Within twenty (20) days from such termination, Seller may submit to Buyer its written claim for termination charges in the form   prescribed
by Buyer.  Failure to submit such claim within such time shall constitute a waiver of all claims and a release of all Buyer’s  liability  arising
out of such termination.  Under no circumstances shall Seller be entitled to anticipatory or lost profits.

3)  Buyer reserves the right to verify claims hereunder and Seller  shall  make  available  to  Buyer,  upon  its  request,  all  relevant,  non-
proprietary books and records for inspection and audit (e.g. time cards and receipts).  If Seller fails to afford  Buyer  its  rights  hereunder,
Seller shall be deemed to have relinquished its claim.

Termination for Default

1)   Buyer may, by written notice of default to Seller,  terminate  the  whole  or  any  part  of  this  Order,  in  any  one  of  the  following
circumstances:

       a)  Seller fails to make delivery of the goods or to perform the services within time specified  herein or any extension thereof; or

       b)   Seller fails to perform any of the other provisions of this Order in accordance with its terms and does not cure such failure  within
a period of ten (10) days after receipt of notice from Buyer specifying such failure; or

       c) Seller becomes insolvent or the subject of proceedings under any law relating to the  relief  of  debtors  or  admits  in  writing  its
inability to pay its debts as they become due.

2)   If this Order is so terminated, Buyer may procure or otherwise obtain, upon such terms and in such manner as  Buyer  may  deem  appropriate,
goods or services similar to those terminated.  Seller shall be liable to Buyer for any excess costs of such similar supplies or services.

3)   Seller shall transfer title and deliver to Buyer, in the manner and to the extent requested in writing by Buyer  at  or  after  termination,
such complete or partially completed articles, property, materials, parts, tools, fixtures, plans, drawings, information and contract  rights  as
Seller has produced or acquired for the performance  of the terminated part of this Order, and Buyer will  pay  Seller  the  contract  price  for
completed articles delivered to and accepted by Buyer and the fair value of the other property of Seller so requested and delivered.

4)    Seller shall continue performance of this Order to the extent not terminated.  Buyer shall have no obligation to  Seller  with  respect  to
the terminated part of this Order except as herein provided.

27.     SECURITY

Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. may be required to conduct,  on  persons  performing  work  on  Government  Owned  or
controlled installations, individual background checks prior to the commencement of effort.   As  part  of  this  process,  information  will  be
required to enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to conduct the appropriate background checks, including  name  (including  any  aliases),  daytime  phone
number, SSN, date of birth, and country of birth.  Individuals who are unable or unwilling to provide the  required  information  and/or  receive
the required authorizations will not be allowed access to NCI-Frederick or any controlled premises.

Seller agrees to comply with the Information Technology (IT) systems security and /or privacy specifications set forth  in  the  Agreement;   the
Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Appendix  III,  “Security  of  Federal
Automated Information Systems”, and the DHHS Automated Information Systems  Security  Program  (AISSP)  Handbook,  which  may  be  found  at  the
following  websites:  Federal  Information  Security  Management  Act  of  2002;  OMB  A-130  Appendix  III    and    DHHS   AISSP   Handbook   :
http://csrc.nist.gov/sec-cert/                                                http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a130/a130appendix_iii.html,
http://intranet.hhs.gov/infosec/policies_guides.html

The Seller further agrees to include this provision in any Order awarded pursuant to the Agreement.  Failure to comply  with  these  requirements
may constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26 of these Terms and Conditions.

The Seller shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of the  Agreement.   The  Seller
shall establish and implement appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards  to  ensure  the  security  and  confidentiality  of
sensitive Government information, data and/or equipment.  Any Seller employee who may have access to sensitive information under  this  agreement
shall complete the form entitled, “Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information – Contractor Agreement,” which may  be  found  at  the  following
website: http://ais.nci.nih.gov/forms/Non-Disclosure_Form.pdf

A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer prior to  performing  any  work  under
the Agreement.

The Seller shall assure that each employee has completed the NIH Computer Security Awareness Training  (http://irtsectraining.nih.gov)  prior  to
performing any work under this contract.

The Seller shall maintain and submit to the Contracting Officer a listing by name and title of each individual working under this  contract,  who
has completed the NIH required training.  Any additional security training completed by Seller staff shall be included on this listing.

In addition, during all activities and operations on Government premises, the Seller shall comply with DHHS,  including  National  Institutes  of
Health (NIH), rules of conduct.  Should the Seller have questions concerning  these  requirements  or  need  of  procedural  guidance  to  ensure
compliance they may contact the cognizant SAIC-Frederick, Inc. acquisition representative.



28.      TOBACCO USE AT THE NCI-FREDERICK

In accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) directive, the NCI-Frederick campus is a tobacco  free  workplace.   Use  of
tobacco in any form is prohibited on the entire NCI-Frederick campus.  This includes personal vehicles while on NCI-Frederick  property  and  all
government vehicles, regardless of their location.

This policy applies to all employees, Government and Contractor, visitors, subcontractors, vendors and guests of the NCI-Frederick,  and  extends
to all HHS owned or leased facilities and properties external to the NCI-Frederick campus where the sole tenant(s) are HHS and/or  SAIC-Frederick
employees.

29.      PAYMENT AND INVOICING

Payment – Work accepted by Buyer shall be paid for in U.S. dollars ($USD) within the negotiated terms upon receipt of proper invoice.

 30. STANDARDS OF BUSINESS ETHICS

Seller, including all lower tiers are expected and required to comply fully with Buyer’s standards of business ethics and conduct and  to  inform
appropriate Buyer officials immediately of any illegal or unethical conduct in their dealings with Buyer’s officers or employees.  Copies of  the
Buyer’s    Code    of    Ethics    and    contacts    for    such     reports     are     available     under     Corporate     Governance     at
http://investors.saic.com/documentdisplay.cfm?DocumentID=4179.

31.     SEVERABILITY

If any term contained in this Subcontract is held or finally determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect , in whole  or  in
part, such term shall be severed from this Subcontract, and the remaining terms contained herein shall continue in force and  effect,  and  shall
in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.

32.     INTERPRETATION

The captions and headings used in this Subcontract are solely for the convenience of the parties, and shall not be used in the interpretation  of
the text of this Subcontract. Each party has read and agreed to the specific language of this Subcontract; therefore no  conflict,  ambiguity  or
doubtful interpretation shall be construed against the drafter.

33.      ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION     TECHNOLOGY  STANDARDS

 Seller agrees to comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ( 29 U.S.C. 794d  )  as  amended  by  P.L.  105-220  under  Title  IV
(Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998). Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) developed, procured,  maintained,  and/or  used  under  this
contract shall be in compliance with the "Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards"  set  forth  by  the  Architectural  and
Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also



referred to as the "Access Board") in 36 CFR Part 1194. The complete text of Section 508 Final Standards can be
accessed at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/standards.htm.  Applicable standards to this requirement are set forth  in  36  CFR  Part  1194.21
through 26.
 
Seller further agrees to include this provision in any Order awarded pursuant to the Agreement.  Failure  to  comply  to these  requirements  may
constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26 of these Terms and Conditions.  




















































































