Additional Information Pertaining to Schedule 36, 

Special Item Numbers (SINs) 51-55, 51-58, 51-58A, 

51-58B, 51-100C, and 51-100F

RENTAL PLAN FOR COPIERS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) 51-55

Liability

While rental equipment is in the possession of the Government, the contractor shall assume all responsibility for loss or damage to the equipment, except for loss or damage caused by the negligence or willful act of the Government.

Delivery, Installation, and Removal

Rental equipment shall be delivered to the using activity, installed and removed by the contractor or the contractor’s authorized representative at no cost to the Government.  An installation charge may be incurred, if such charges are the offeror’s commercial practice and are negotiated and accepted by the Government.  No removal charges will be accepted.

Removal of rental equipment by the contractor or the contractor’s authorized representative shall be completed within thirty (30) days after expiration of the rental agreement or within thirty (30) days after the date of the Government document that terminates the rental agreement.  Equipment which has not been removed by the contractor or the contractor’s authorized representative within these time frames may be disposed of in a manner the using activity deems appropriate.  Recovery of the equipment (if possible) from the Government’s disposal site will be at no cost to the Government.  The contractor shall reimburse any costs incurred by the Government in disposal of the Government’s property.

NOTE:  The following provisions shall be addressed in the approved Government pricelist.

Repair and Maintenance Service

Offeror’s shall submit and include in their pricelist’s, a list of names, addresses, and phone numbers of authorized dealers responsible to the contractor who may be contacted by ordering activities for repair and maintenance of rental equipment.  Only those dealers listed may render service, unless the list is subsequently modified by mutual agreement between the contractor and the Contracting Officer, to add or delete dealers.

Response to Service Calls

During normal working hours (as specified by the using activity), Monday through Friday (excluding holidays observed by the Government), the contractor shall respond to verbal or written requests for service calls.  The contractor shall repair the rental equipment within either nine (9) working hours or sixteen (16) working hours (as specified by the using activity) after the verbal or written request for the service call.  The contractor’ response time on a service call starts, when authorized personnel of an ordering activity place a verbal request to the contractor for a service call or a written request is received by the contractor requesting a service call, whichever is earlier.



Backup and Replacement Equipment

The contractor shall have backup and replacement rental equipment available.  When rental equipment cannot be repaired within sixteen (16) working hours, the ordering activity may require the contractor to provide backup rental equipment.  The contractor shall deliver backup rental equipment within nine (9) working hours of the ordering activity’s notifying the contractor that backup rental equipment is required.  Backup rental equipment must equal or exceed the performance capabilities of the equipment being replaced.  The contractor’s charges for use of the backup rental equipment shall be identical to the charges for use of the original equipment being replaced.  If the original equipment is not satisfactory repaired and returned to the ordering activity.  If agreed to by the ordering activity, the backup rental equipment may be used as the replacement equipment.  The contractor shall provide the ordering activity with the serial number, location, and model number of the replacement rental equipment.

Credit (Repair and Maintenance Response)

If repair service is not accomplished or within the specified time, the Government shall be entitled to credit against the monthly billing for that particular equipment.  Credit will be unilaterally taken on the basis of 1/30th of the monthly rental rate for each day or portion of a day the equipment is not repaired or replaced.

Maintenance Responsibility

All rental equipment shall be serviced and maintained by the contractor in a fully operational condition without expense to the Government, except for repairs, replacements, and maintenance necessitated by accident, misuse, or negligence of the Government.  If repair or replacement is not accomplished within the established specified time frame, the Government shall be entitled to credit against the monthly billing for that particular equipment.  Credit will be unilaterally taken on the basis of 1 30th of the monthly rate for each day or portion of a day, the equipment was not repaired or replaced.  At any rate, the government is not in use, the contractor must replace provide a replacement with the equipment with identical capabilities.  It is the intent to keep the replacement in replace for the duration of the contract term.

Monthly Effectiveness Level (MEL)

Each rental equipment furnished under the resulting contract shall perform at a 95% or higher Monthly Effectiveness Level.  The Monthly Effectiveness Level percentage shall be calculated as follows:  Monthly Effectiveness Level percent = (total monthly production period in hours) minus (total number of rental equipment downtime hours over the monthly production period) divided by (total monthly production period in hours) times 100.  The total monthly production period in hours shall be calculated by multiplying 8 hours per day times the number of working days in the month (weekend and Federal holidays excluded).  The total number of equipment downtime hours over the monthly production period shall be calculated as the number of minutes the rental equipment was down (unable to perform one or more of its specified functions) during the monthly production period, divided by 60.

Credit (MEL)

Failure of any rental equipment to achieve a Monthly Effectiveness Level of 95% or higher shall entitle the Government to unilaterally take credit against the monthly billing for that particular equipment.  The credit shall be calculated as the difference between 100 percent and the achieved MEL percent times the monthly rental charge.  In any month in which the Monthly Effectiveness Level is less than 95%, the Government will not be responsible for paying any charge for lack of monthly volume.  If the MEL is 95% or higher, no credit will be taken by the Government.

e.g. Credit calculation:  If rental equipment was down for 1200 minutes in a month which had a total monthly production of 21 days and the monthly rental charge was $300, the Government’s unilateral credit against the monthly billing would be calculated as follows:

Total monthly productions hours:  21 days times 8 hours = 168 total monthly production hours

Total number of rental equipment downtime hours over the monthly production period:  1200 minutes divided by 60 =20 hours

MEL percent:  (168 minus 20, divided by 168) times 100 = 88.095 percent

Credit percent taken:  100 percent minus 88.095 percent = 11.005 percent

Government credit:  11.005 percent of $300 = $33.02

Credit (Extensive Downtime)

If the Monthly Effectiveness Level is less than 90 percent for the three consecutive months, the Government reserves that right to require the contractor to replace the equipment or – terminate the order with no termination or removal charges being assessed to the Government. 

Termination

[Refer to Termination for Convenience Clause]

[See FAR Clause 52.212-4]

Rental to Purchase Option Conversion

Rental charges, which have been paid, may be applied as partial payment towards the purchase of equipment.  The purchase price shall be the contract price, or the rental to purchase conversation price, whichever is lower.  The percentage of rental accruals to be applied towards the purchase price shall be in effect at the time of the initial rental agreement, or rental to purchase option conversion.  Any accrue credits may apply against the purchase price.  

All equipment purchased under rental purchase option conversion shall be new and unused, or remanufactured.  Any equipment in rental status, which was not new and unused, or remanufactured at the beginning thereof, shall be replaced with new, unused, or remanufactured equipment.  All equipment purchased by the Government under rental purchase option conversion shall be entitled to a warranty for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of conversion or the period of the accepted commercial warranty for purchase, whichever is greater.  Such warranty shall be provided to the 

Government at no additional cost.  If the Government opts to purchase the equipment after the 90-day warranty expires, if requested by the Government, the contractor shall provide maintenance service in accordance with SIN 51 57.

LEASING OF GENERAL PURPOSE COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT 

SINs:	 51-58 - Lease-to-Ownership Plan (LTOP) – Copiers

	51-58a - Operating Lease Plan - Copiers Only

       	51- 58b - Operating Lease Plan (All Other Products under FSC 36) 

1.  STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTENT

For the purpose of this solicitation, Lease Term is defined as the duration of the lease in months (not to exceed 60 months) as shown on the Ordering Agency’s initial delivery order.  It is understood by all parties to this contract that this is a leasing arrangement.  In that regard, the Government anticipates fulfilling the leasing agreement subject to the availability of appropriated funds and the continued needs of the Ordering Agency.  The Ordering Agency, upon issuance of any delivery order pursuant to Special Item Numbers (SIN’s) 51 58, 51 58a or 51 58b, intends to use the equipment for the lease term specified in the initial delivery order so long as the needs of the Ordering Agency for the equipment or functionally similar equipment continues to exist and adequate funds are appropriated.  Each lease hereunder shall be initiated by a delivery order which shall, either through a statement of work or other attachment specify the equipment being leased, and the terms of the transaction as required in other sections of SIN’s 51 58, 51 58a or 51 58b.  The lease commencement is the date of acceptance as defined by FAR Subpart 12.4

The first period or initial term of the leasing agreement will be through September 30th of the fiscal year in which the order is placed, or as extended by act of Congress, unless the ordering office has multi-year funding.

Ordering Agencies are advised to follow the guidance provided in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 7.4 Equipment Lease or Purchase, and to review the lease terms and conditions prior to ordering and obligating funding for a lease. Ordering Agencies are responsible for the obligation of the funding consistent with fiscal law when entering into any lease arrangement.

2.  ORDERING PROCEDURES

   a.  Ordering Agencies are strongly encouraged to conduct a needs assessment prior to the procurement of copiers.

   b.  When the Ordering Agency expresses an interest in leasing a product(s), the Ordering Agency will provide the following information to the prospective vendors:

      i.  Which product(s) is (are) required.

      ii.  The required delivery date.

      iii.  The proposed term of the lease.

      iv.  Where the equipment will be located.

      v.  Description of the intended use of the equipment.

   c.	The contractor will respond with:

      i.  Whether the contractor can provide the required equipment.

      ii.  The monthly payment based on the rate and the initial and residual values of the equipment.

      iii.  The estimated cost, if any, of applicable State or local taxes. 

      iv.  A confirmation of the availability of the equipment on the required delivery date.

      v.  Extent of warranty coverage, if any, of the leased products.

      vi.  Cite the cost of any mandatory maintenance as applicable.

vii.	The Termination Ceiling Charges, as applicable.  (See Section 13, Early Termination Charges).

   d.  The ordering agency and contractor shall agree upon a termination ceiling charge which is established in accordance with the appropriate formula in Section 13.  Early Termination Charges (See FAR Subpart 17.1)

   e.  The Contracting Officer shall insert the agreed upon termination ceiling charge for the first year in the order and modify it for successive years upon availability of funds.

3.  ORDERS AND PERIOD OF LEASING ARRANGEMENTS

   a.  Lease Options:  At a minimum, Ordering Agencies placing orders for equipment under a leasing arrangement must specify on the delivery order the applicable leasing SIN under which the equipment is being leased.

      i.  51 58    Lease to Ownership Plan (LTOP)(Lease/Purchase)(Copier)

      ii.  51 58A  Lease with Option to Own (Operating Lease) (Copier)

      iii.  51 58B  Lease with Option to Own (Operating Lease) (All Other Products under the 36 Schedule) 

   b.  Annual Year Funding.  When using annually appropriated funds when placing an order for leasing, the following applies:

      i.  Any lease executed by the Ordering Agency shall be on the basis that the known requirements exceed the remainder of the fiscal year.  Due to funding constraints, however, the Ordering Agency cannot normally commit to a term longer than one fiscal year at the commencement of the lease.  To facilitate the exercise of renewal options for future fiscal years, the lease term will be specified in the delivery order.    All orders for leasing shall remain in effect through the Government fiscal year (or as extended by Act of Congress), or the planned expiration date of the lease, whichever is earlier, unless the  Ordering Agency exercises its rights hereunder to acquire title to the equipment prior to the planned expiration date. Despite the fact that the delivery order will specify the total lease term, orders under the lease shall not be deemed to obligate succeeding fiscal year’s funds or to otherwise commit the Ordering Agency to a renewal.

      ii.  All orders for leasing automatically terminate at the end of the Government fiscal year (or as extended by Act of Congress) or the contract term, whichever is earlier. However, Ordering Agencies should notify the contractor in writing thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of such orders as to the Government’s intent to renew.  Ordering Agencies are instructed to follow the guidelines set forth in Paragraph 14 of this section with regard to termination of lease terms for non-appropriation or agency decisions not to renew.  Should Ordering Agencies decide to terminate the lease prior to the expiration of the lease term under any other condition other than those set forth in Paragraph 14, early termination charges shall apply, (See Section 13, Early Termination).

   c.  Multi-Year Funding Within contract Period:  Where an Ordering Agency’s specific appropriation authority provides for funds in excess of a 12 month (fiscal year) period, the Ordering Agency may place a schedule contract order for leasing for a period up to the expiration of its period of appropriation availability, or the expiration of the contract period whichever comes first, notwithstanding the intervening fiscal years.

   d.  In recognition of the types of products on this Schedule and the potential adverse impact to the Government’s mission, the Government’s quiet and peaceful possession and unrestricted use of the equipment shall not be disturbed in the event the equipment is sold by the Contractor, or in the event of bankruptcy of the contractor, corporate dissolution of the Contractor, or other event, so long as the Government is not in default.  The equipment shall remain in the possession of the Government until the expiration of the lease.  Any assignment, sale, bankruptcy, or other transfer of the leased equipment by the contractor will not relieve the Contractor of its obligations to the Government, and will not change the Government’s duties or increase the burdens or risks imposed on the Government.

  e.  Assignment of Claims:  In accordance with GSAR 552.232-23 Assignment of Claims under this contract, the Ordering Agency Contracting Officer may approve the assignment of claim for an order under these leasing Special Item Numbers (SINs) in accordance with FAR 32.803.  Contractors cannot prohibit or otherwise limit the Government’s ability to setoff lease payments under any lease or assignment of a lease.

   f.  Government Rights under Lease: The Government does NOT waive any performance requirements, warranty rights nor other contract or statutory rights, such as the right to set off payments against other Government debt, as a part of the lease.  The Government’s acceptance of an assignment of a lease, does not waive any of the Government contract provisions.

4.  MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION 

   a.  Maintenance and installation, when applicable, are not included in the lease payments.  The Ordering Agency will obtain installation and/or maintenance from the contractor or a designated authorized service provider.  

  b.  When installation and/or maintenance are to be performed by the Contractor, the payments, terms and conditions will be as stated in this contract.  Maintenance payments and terms and conditions during subsequent renewal periods of this lease will be those of the prevailing GSA Schedule contract in effect.

5.  MONTHLY PAYMENTS 

   a.  Prior to the placement of an order under this SIN, the Ordering Agency and the contractor must agree on a "base value" for the products to be leased.  The base value will be the contract purchase price (less any discounts).  For operating leases the residual value is independent of the purchase option price.  The residual value will be used in the calculation of the original lease payment.

  b.  To determine the initial lease term payment, the contractor agrees to apply the negotiated lease factor to the agreed upon base value:  

Examples:  Lease factor one (1) percent over the rate for the three year (or other term) Treasury Bill (T-bill) at the most current U. S. Treasury auction.  Or the Contractor’s most favored finance rate factor as agreed to during contract negotiations.  The lease payment may be calculated by using a programmed business calculator or by using "rate" functions provided in commercial computer spreadsheets (e.g., Lotus 1-2-3, Excel).

  c.  The purchase option price will be based upon the unamortized principle of the product. The payment will be based upon the unamortized principle, as shown on the payment schedule as of the last payment prior to date of transfer of ownership.  In the event the Government desires, at any time, to acquire title to equipment leased hereunder, the Government may make a one time lump sum payment. 

      i.  The monthly payments can be calculated using Microsoft Excel.

         1.  LTOP Monthly Payment

         Example - 

         In cell B4, type the principal or schedule price of the equipment at time of order:  $20,000

         In cell D4, type your term in months:  48

         In cell D5, type your lease factor:  0.095

         In cell F4, type the following function to calculate the monthly payment:  =PMT(D5/12,D4,-B4,B5,F5)

         Your monthly payment should equal:  $502.46.

2.  Operating Lease Monthly Payment

Example - 

In cell B4, type the principal or schedule price of the equipment at time of order:  $14,500

In cell B5, type your residual value:  $1450

In cell D4, type your term in months:  60

In cell D5, type your lease factor:  0.085

In cell F4, type the following function to calculate the monthly payment:  =PMT(D5/12,D4,-B4,B5,F5)   

Your monthly payment should equal:  $278.01.

6.  EXPIRATION OF LEASE TERM:

   a.  Upon the expiration of the Lease Term, the Ordering Agency will:

      i.  Upon 30 day written notice, return the Equipment to the Contractor or - 

      ii.  Purchase the equipment at the fair market value of the equipment or;

      iii.  Obtain requirements in accordance with FAR 8.4 (Ordering Procedures) by issuing a new request for quote.

Note:  Customers are advised to see paragraph 15-18 for additional lease expiration provisions.

7.  ADDITIONS 

For the purpose of this solicitation the definition of an addition is defined as follows:  Additions:  The addition of accessories features or other enhancements available for lease under this contract to an existing model (base unit) already installed.  Additions shall not change the functionality of the installed equipment.

   a.  The ordering agency may require the contractor to modify existing leased equipment through order modifications, provided the modifications are customarily offered by the contractor for the equipment leased.  The price of the modification will be mutually agreed upon by the ordering agency and the contractor.  The ordering agency may pay for the modification at full price upon acceptance, or the modification price may be leased coterminous with the initial lease term.  The contract lease interest rate in effect at the time of order of the modification will be used to calculate the monthly payment applicable to the modification.  For Operating leases a residual value should be negotiated for the modification.

      i.  The modification payment can be calculated using Microsoft Excel.  The modification payment can then be added on to your existing monthly lease payment.  You will need to know the following three (3) variables:  the price of the modification, the months remaining on the equipment lease, and the current contract lease factor at the time of modification.  

      Example - 

      Lease to ownership

      In cell A1, type the price of the modification:  $1000

      In cell A2, type the months remaining on the equipment lease:  19

      In cell A3, type the current contract lease factor at the time of   the modification:  0.625percent

      In cell A4, type the following payment function: 

      =PMT(A3,A2,-A1)

      and then press the enter key.  

      Your modification payment should equal $55.98.

   b.  The Ordering Agency may affix or install any accessory, addition, equipment or device on the equipment ("additions") provided that such additions:

      i.  can be removed without causing material damage to the equipment;

      ii.  do not reduce the value of the equipment; and

      iii.  are obtained from or approved by the contractor, and are not subject to the interest of any third party other than the contractor.

   c.  Any other additions may not be installed without the contractor’s prior written consent.  At the end of the lease term, the Government shall remove any additions which:

      i.  were not leased from the contractor, and

      ii.  are readily removable without causing material damage or impairment of the intended function, use, or value of the equipment, and restore the equipment to its original configuration. 

   d.  Any additions, which are not removable, will become the contractor’s property (lien free).

   e.  Payment may be modified based on the schedule price adjusted to reflect the actual period until the end of the lease term.

   f.  Should the Ordering Agency elect to replace equipment under the lease, a new FAR 8.4 competition is required.  This does not preclude substitution for failure to perform.  Ordering Agencies are advised that when making the decision to conduct a new competition, consideration must be given to the early termination of existing equipment and/or the financial considerations involved with the rollover of existing equipment should the current contractor prevail.  Ordering Agencies are strongly advised to perform a cost benefit analysis in accordance with their agency procedures and policies with regard to rollovers.

8.  RISK OF LOSS OR DAMAGE 

The Government is relieved from all risk of loss or damage to the equipment during periods of transportation, installation, and during the entire time the equipment is in possession of the Government, except when loss or damage is due to the fault or negligence of the Government.  The Government shall assume risk of loss or damage to the equipment during relocation unless the Contractor shall undertake such relocation. 

9.  WARRANTY  

In accordance with Clause 552.246-73 under this contract, the contractor’s warranty, as stated in the contractor’s GSA Authorized Price List, is applicable to the lease.

10.  EQUIPMENT PERFORMANCE

   a.  The equipment supplied must be in operational or repairable condition throughout the term of the lease.

      i.  Operational condition means the equipment is producing clear and clean copies, all mechanical accessories are operating as intended and in 	all respects the equipment is performing up to the standards in the manufacturer’s specifications.

      ii.  Repairable condition means that the equipment can be repaired by a qualified technician within the terms of the maintenance agreement.  Additionally, all required replacement parts are available and the equipment down time does not exceed that specified in the maintenance agreement.  

   b.  After a thirty (30) day notice and cure period, if the equipment continues to fail to be operational or repairable as defined above, the Ordering Agency may take those remedies available to it under either the contractor warranty provisions or default clause set forth in FAR 52.212-4(m).  Such recourse will not be the basis for increasing the monthly payment or extending the term of the lease.

   c.  Maintenance and Support:

Preventive Maintenance: The contractor shall provide preventive maintenance at least equal to the commercial practice.  Intervals between scheduled maintenance services shall be no greater than those provided to commercial customers for the same model of copier.

Response to Service Calls: At minimum, during normal working hours (as specified by the using activity), Monday through Friday (excluding holidays observed by the Government), the contractor shall respond to verbal or written requests for service calls.  The contractor shall repair the copier within either nine (9) working hours or sixteen (16) working hours (as specified by the User Activity) after the verbal or written request for the service call.  However, for copiers identified as critical, the contractor shall respond to verbal requests for service calls and shall repair the copier within four (4) working hours.  Copiers designated critical will be identified by the ordering activity in the order and shall not exceed 5percent of the total number of copiers on the order.   The contractor’s response time on a service call starts, when authorized personnel of an ordering activity place a verbal request to the contractor for a service call or a written request is received by the contractor requesting a service call, whichever is earlier.  

Contractors are required to submit a contingency plan to maintain full and proper operation of copiers and to avoid extended delays for repair or replacement of copiers.

Repair and Maintenance Service:  Offerors shall submit and include in their pricelist’s, a list of Names, addresses, and phone number(s) of authorized representatives, responsible to the contractor, who may be contacted by ordering activities for repair and maintenance of equipment.  Only those authorized representatives listed may render maintenance service, unless the list is subsequently modified by mutual agreement between the contractor and the Contracting Officer, to add or terminate authorized representatives.

11.  TITLE 

During the Lease Term, the equipment shall always remain the property of the contractor.  The Government shall have no right or interest in the equipment except as provided in this leasing agreement and shall hold the equipment subject and subordinate to the rights of the contractor.

12.  State and Local Taxes (52-229-1):

Notwithstanding the terms of the Federal, State, and Local Taxes Clause, the contract price excludes all State and Local taxes levied on or measured by the contract or sales price of the services or completed supplies furnished under this contract.  The contractor shall state separately on its invoices taxes excluded from the contract price, and the Government agrees either to pay the amount of the taxes (based on the current value of the equipment) to the contractor or provide evidence necessary to sustain an exemption.

See FAR clauses 52.229-1 State and Local Taxes, 52.229-3 Federal, State, and Local Taxes, which are incorporated by, reference.



13.  EARLY TERMINATION CHARGES

Equipment leased under this agreement may be terminated at any time during a Government fiscal year by the Ordering Agency’s Contracting Office responsible for the delivery order in accordance with FAR 52.212-4, paragraph (l) Termination for the Government’s Convenience.   

The Termination Ceiling Charge is a limit on the amount that a contractor may claim from the Ordering Agency on the termination for convenience of a lease or failure to renew a lease prior to the end of the lease term for reasons other than those set forth in section 14, Termination for Non-Appropriation.  Termination ceiling charges will apply for each year of the lease term (See FAR 17.1).  The Ordering Agency and contractor shall establish a Termination Ceiling amount. The Contracting Officer shall insert the Termination Ceiling Charge for amount of the first year in the order and modify it for successive years upon availability of funds. 

No claim will be accepted for future costs: supplies, maintenance, usage charges or interest expense beyond the date of cancellation. In accordance with the bona fide needs rule, all termination charges must reasonably represent the value the Ordering Agency received for the work performed at cancellation based upon the shorter lease term.  No termination cost will be associated with the expiration of the lease term.

   a.  Formula 1:  For SIN 51-58 - Lease To Own (LTOP)

       The termination ceiling charge can be calculated using Microsoft  Excel.

       You will need to know the following variables:  principal, term, lease factor, monthly payment, recalculated monthly payment, total recalculated monthly payment, and total payment made.  

	Example - 

        In cell B4, type the principal or schedule price of the equipment at time of order:  $20,000

        In cell D4, type your term in months:  48

        In cell D5, type your lease factor:  0.095

        In cell F4, type the following function to calculate the monthly  payment:  =PMT(D5/12,D4,-B4,B5,F5)

        Your monthly payment should equal:  $502.46.

	In cell A9, type the month:  1

        In cell B9, type the following formula to re-calculate the monthly payment at month 1:  =PMT($D$5/12,A9,-$B$4)

        In cell C9, type the following formula to calculate the total recalculated monthly payment:  =A9*B9

In cell D9, type the following formula to calculate the total payment made:  =A9*$F$4

        In cell E9, type the following formula to calculate the Termination Ceiling Charge:  =IF(C9-D9>0,C9-D9,0)

	Your termination ceiling charge for month 1 should equal:  $19,655.87. 

   b.  Formula 2:  For SINs 51 58a and 51 58b - Operating Leases

       The termination ceiling charge can be calculated using Microsoft Excel.

       You will need to know the following variables:  principal,  residual value, term, lease factor, monthly payment, beginning principal, payment, principal, and interest.  

      Example - 

      In cell B4, type the principal or schedule price of the equipment at time of order:  $14,500

      In cell B5, type your residual value:  $1450

      In cell D4, type your term in months:  60

      In cell D5, type your lease factor:  0.085

      In cell F4, type the following function to calculate the monthly payment:  =PMT(D5/12,D4,-B4,B5,F5)   

      Your monthly payment should equal:  $278.01.

      In cell A8, type the month:  1

      In cell B8, type the following formula to calculate the Beginning Principal:  =B4-PV(D5/12,D4,0,-B5,F5)

      In cell C8, type the following formula to calculate the payment: 

      =IF(A8>D$4,0,$F$4)

      In cell D8, type the following formula to calculate the principal:  

      =C8-E8

      In cell E8, type the following formula to calculate the interest:  =B8*$D$5/12

      In cell F8, type the following formula to calculate the Termination Ceiling Charge:  =B8-D8

      Your termination ceiling charge for month 1 should equal:  $13,368.58. 





14.  TERMINATION FOR NON-APPROPRIATION  

The Ordering Agency reasonably believes that the bona fide need will exist for the entire lease term and corresponding funds in an amount sufficient to make all payment for the lease term will be available to the Ordering Agency.  Therefore, it is unlikely that leases entered into under the SINs 51 58/Lease to Own (Copiers), 51 58a/Operating Lease (Copier), and 51 58b/all other equipment will be terminated prior to the full lease term. Nevertheless, the Ordering Agency’s Contracting Officer may terminate or not renew leases at the end of any initial base period or renewal period under this paragraph if (a) it no longer has a bona fide need the equipment or functionally similar equipment, or (b) there is a continuing need, but adequate funds have not been appropriated to the ordering agency in an amount sufficient to continue to make the lease payments.  If this occurs, the Ordering Agency will promptly notify the contractor and the equipment lease will be cancelled at the end of the last fiscal year for which funds were appropriated.  The determination of the availability of funds is made solely by the Government.  

15.  LEASE EXTENSIONS 

Extension of the present lease term is not permitted.  Future copier requirements shall be procured in accordance with FAR 8.4, FSS Ordering Procedures.

16.  LEASE EXPIRATIONS - SIN 51 58/LEASE TO OWN

Title to equipment installed under SIN 51 58 automatically transfers to the Government upon conclusion of the Lease Term Agreement.

17.  LEASE EXPIRATIONS - SIN 51 58A/OPERATING LEASE AND 51 58B/ALL OTHER EQUIPMENT

Extension of the present lease term is not permitted.  Future copier requirements shall be procured in accordance with FAR 8.4 covering Ordering Procedures.

Unless notified by the Ordering Agency that the Government intends to exercise its option to purchase the equipment, the equipment, upon the expiration of the lease term, will be removed by the contractor at the earliest practicable time.  The Ordering Agency is responsible for removal charges.  Unless specified under the schedule contract, removal charges will be administered outside the scope of the contract.

The equipment shall be in the same condition as when delivered, with the exception of ordinary wear and tear.  The contractor shall conduct a timely inspection of the returned products and within thirty (30) days of the return, assert a claim if the condition of the equipment exceeds normal wear and tear.

In the event the Ordering Agency desires, at any time, to acquire title to equipment leased hereunder, the price will be mutually agreed upon by the parties.

18.  RETURN OF EQUIPMENT 

The Government will provide written instructions for the removal of the equipment.  The Ordering Agency is required to provide serial numbers and exact location of equipment for pick up.

Upon receipt of this notice the contractor shall remove the equipment within thirty (30) days or a mutually agreed date and time.  The Ordering Agency is responsible for removal charges.  Unless specified under the schedule contract, removal charges will be administered outside the scope of the contract.

The equipment shall be in the same condition as when delivered, with the exception of ordinary wear and tear.  The contractor shall conduct a timely inspection of the returned products and within thirty (30) days of the return, assert a claim if the condition of the equipment exceeds normal wear and tear.

Equipment not removed by the contractor within thirty (30) days of the date of notification by the Order Agency shall be considered as abandoned and subject to such disposal as the Government may deem appropriate.

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COPIER EQUIPMENT

1. MAINTENANCE COVERAGE. The contractor shall not sell, rent, or lease any equipment to any activity for which the contractor cannot meet the provision of repair and maintenance services.

2.	SECURITY will be handled at the task order level.

3.  EQUIPMENT LOCATION.  To facilitate prompt servicing of equipment, ordering activities must specify the type of equipment and whether equipment is for purchase, lease/rent or maintenance service, location of the equipment, and will advise the contractor of any subsequent change of equipment location.

4.  PURCHASE ORDER/BILLING.  The contractor shall bill the ordering agency as agreed upon.

5.	TERMINATION - 

[Refer to Termination for Convenience Clause]

[See FAR Clause 52.212-4]

6.   SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.  The contractor shall identify to the ordering activity in writing (e.g., via instruction sheet, operators manual, maintenance manual) those safety precautions and hazardous materials as it relates to the purchase product made against this schedule.

7.  OPERATOR’S TRAINING   Unless waived in the purchase order, the contractor shall provide operator training and operator manual for key operators as identified by the Government’s authorized representative at the time of or prior to installation f the initial equipment.  On an “as needed” basis within 3-5 working days of such request by the Government, additional training may be required to maintain qualified key operators when personnel are relocated or retire etc.  It is estimated that one key operator per equipment per year will require training (e.g., for equipment that is in place for 4 years, it is estimated that 4 key operators will require training for that equipment).



8.  EQUIPMENT DEMONSTRATION.  Unless waived in the purchase order, the contractor shall demonstrate that the equipment is properly functioning at the time of installation.  This demonstration shall be accomplished pursuant to the operating instructions furnished with the equipment and in the presence of the Government’s authorized representative. 

9.  EQUIPMENT ACCEPTANCE.  Upon determination that the equipment is acceptable, the Government’s authorized representative, having responsibility for accepting the equipment under the purchase order, will sign the equipment acceptance document.

10.  COPIER PAPER. Copier equipment shall be fully capable of operating satisfactorily and producing acceptable copies

11. REMANUFACTURED EQUIPMENT.  Remanufactured equipment is equipment which has been subjected to certain processes including, but not limited to, the following: disassembly, cleaning, refinishing to the appearance of new equipment, replacement of all worn or defective components, and inspected and tested to new machine standards.  No components other than those newly manufactured will be used as replacements, except in applications that does not affect machine performance.  

12.  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS

GUARANTEED MINIMUM MONTHLY VOLUMES FOR EACH VOLUME BAND (OCT 1999) 

(a)	SIN 51 100C - For Cost-Per-Copy, the Guaranteed Monthly Minimum Volume (i.e., guaranteed number of copies per month) for each copying machine volume band are as follows:

VOLUME BAND GUARANTEED MONTHLY MINIMUM VOLUME

Volume Band 1                750 copies per month

Volume Band 2              5,001 copies per month

Volume Band 3            15,001 copies per month

Volume Band 4            30,001 copies per month

Volume Band 5            50,001 copies per month

Volume Band 6            80,001 copies per month

Volume Band 7          100,001 copies per month

(b)	SIN 51 100C - Excluding the copying machines described in (c) and (d) below, if the actual monthly volume (i.e., actual total number of copies) is less than the "Guaranteed Monthly Minimum Volume” the Government agrees for the number of copies identified under the “Guaranteed Monthly Minimum Volume” at the order cost-per-copy price.



(c)	SIN 51 100C - The “Guaranteed Monthly Minimum Volume” is not applicable to copier machines installed less than the total billing month.  The actual copies from these machines will be paid at the order cost-per-copy price.

SIN 51 100C - In any month in which the Monthly Effectiveness Level (MEL) is less than 95 percent, the Government will not be responsible for paying any charge for lack of monthly volume.

(d)   SIN 51 100F - Neither guaranteed or copy charges are applicable.

OFFEROR’S PRICING - COST-PER-COPY (CPC) (SIN 51-100c) and FLAT-RATE MONTHY-FEE (FRMF) (SIN 51-100f)

Pricing for each volume band and tier for copiers will include:

•	Consumables (except paper and transparencies),

•	Full maintenance and repair services (including both preventive and emergency repairs during normal working hours), and

•	Training for key operators, at the time of machine installation, as well as later as required by an ordering activity to maintain availability of trained key operators.

  Offer pricing should be based on order quantities from 1 to 500 copiers located in a single urban area.  For pricing purposes, the number of copiers shall be grouped into the following tiers: 

Tier 1:    1  -   24 copiers

Tier 2:  25  -  99 copiers

Tier 3:  100 - 199 copiers

Tier 4:  200  - 299 copiers

Tier 5:  300  - 500 copiers

If this additional copier quantity increases the aggregate number of ordered copiers such that the quantity falls into a higher tier, the lower prices available in the higher tier will apply to the aggregate (total) number of ordered copiers.  The lower prices for the aggregate number of copiers will commence upon Government acceptance of that copier which causes the aggregate number of ordered copiers to fall into a higher tier.  The term of placement for the additional copiers will have the same agreement end date as that of the initial copiers.

NOTE TO OFFERORS: Your attention is called to the fact that the requirements for each volume band of copier includes both a requirement for a minimum number of copies per minute and a requirement for a monthly volume production capability.  There is no direct relationship, either stated or implied, between these two requirements.  The fact that any copier model meets the copies-per-minute requirement for a particular VB does not, in any way, imply that it automatically qualifies to meet the monthly volume requirement.   The offeror’s certification relative to monthly volume capability is to be based solely upon the offeror’s engineering knowledge and in-service experience with the copier model being offered for a particular VB.  Offerors are cautioned that compliance with the words “Capable of producing” in the monthly volume requirement for each VB defines a machine that will regularly produce, as a minimum, the upper limit of the stated number of copies per month without excessive malfunctions, breakdowns, or service calls.   A high incidence of such problems with any copier model supplied may indicate probable noncompliance with the monthly volume requirement and may result in (1) requests for replacement of all units of this model with other models that can produce the required volumes of copies in a more reliable manner, (2) a decision not to renew the contract, or (3) termination for default proceedings.  

CONSUMABLE SUPPLIES (CPC and FRMF)

All consumable supplies (with the exception of paper and transparencies) required for copier operations shall be included in the resulting price.  This includes consumables (e.g., staples needed to operate stapling devices) whether optional or standard with the copiers covered under the contract. The Government will not be responsible for providing any consumable supplies (with the exception of paper and transparencies) and for moving, storing, inventorying, or issuing the contractor’s consumable supplies.  Paper and transparencies for use in the copiers will be purchased by the Government and made available at the using activity’s location(s).  On or about the same day of each month, the contractor shall ensure that each copier is furnished with sufficient consumable supplies (excluding paper and transparencies) to produce a volume of copies equal to that stated as the lower limit of the Volume Band for that particular copier.  In addition, the contractor shall respond to verbal orders for additional consumable supplies under the following conditions:  Orders for additional consumable supplies shall be accepted only from persons identified on the user activity’s list of personnel authorized to order supplies. Orders will state the quantity and type of consumable supplies required and the location and serial number of the copier for which the additional consumable supplies are being ordered.  The contractor shall deliver additional consumable supplies within a period of twenty-four hours after receipt of a verbal order.  Consumable supplies from the contractor shall be delivered during normal business hours, Monday through Friday (excluding holidays observed by the Government), as specified by the using activity.  The contractor shall identify a point of contact for consumable supplies (e.g., for order, receipt, coordination, delivery, and maintenance of supplies).

PARTS AND SUPPIES AVAILABILITY (CPC and FRMF):  The contractor shall have parts and supplies in quantities sufficient to service the resulting contract.  The contractor shall have a delivery system capable of delivery even under extreme emergency conditions.

MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT (CPC and FRMF)

Preventive Maintenance: The contractor shall provide, at a minimum, one yearly service call as a preventive maintenance service to ensure that the each copier furnished under the resulting contract is maintained in fully operational condition.  However, intervals between scheduled maintenance services shall be no greater than those provided to commercial customers for the same model of copier.

Response to Service Calls: During normal working hours (as specified by the using activity), Monday through Friday (excluding holidays observed by the Government), the contractor shall respond to verbal or written requests for service calls.  The contractor shall repair the copier within either nine (9) working hours or sixteen (16) working hours (as specified by the using activity) after the verbal or written request for the service call.  However, for copiers identified as critical, the contractor shall respond to verbal requests for service calls and shall repair the copier within four (4) working hours.  Copiers designated critical will be identified by the ordering activity in the order and shall not exceed 5percent of the total number of copiers on the order.   The contractor’s response time on a service call starts, when authorized personnel of an ordering activity place a verbal request to the contractor for a service call or a written request is received by the contractor requesting a service call, whichever is earlier.  

Backup and Replacement Copiers: The contractor shall have backup and replacement copiers available to support each Volume Band.   Backup copiers are those copiers that are temporarily installed.  Replacement copiers are those copiers that are installed in place of a malfunctioning copier and that are intended to remain in place for the remainder of the contract period.  When a copier cannot be repaired within sixteen  (16) working hours, the ordering activity may require the contractor to provide a backup copier.  The contractor shall deliver backup copiers within eight  (8) working hours of the ordering activity’s notifying the contractor that a backup copier is required.   Backup copiers must equal or exceed the capabilities of the copier being replaced.  The contractor’s charges for use of the backup copier shall be identical to the charges for use of the original copier being replaced.  If the original copier is not satisfactory repaired and returned to the ordering activity within a total of forty (40) working hours from the time of request for a service call, the contractor shall provide a replacement copier of the same make and model as the original copier or a replacement copier satisfactory to the ordering activity.   If agreed to by the ordering activity, the backup copier may be used as the replacement copier.  The contractor shall provide the ordering activity with the serial number, location, and model number of the replacement copier.      

Qualification of Personnel (CPC and FRMF):  The contractor shall have qualified management, service technicians and delivery personnel in sufficient numbers to service and support the requirements under contract within the specified response times.  Failure to maintain sufficient qualified personnel to meet the required response times may result in termination for default.   The offeror shall designate and identify a program/project manager who is authorized to make decisions to ensure that the contract implementation and day-to-day operation is efficient and effective.  At the time of submission of the offer, the offeror shall submit descriptions of the pertinent experience of those employees that will have principal responsibility for the Cost-per-Copy and Flat rate Monthly Fee Programs (e.g., program/project manager, key customer service representatives, dispatchers, service technicians).

Repair and Maintenance Service:  Offerors shall submit and include in their pricelist’s, a list of Names, addresses, and phone number(s) of authorized representatives, responsible to the contractor, who may be contacted by ordering activities for repair and maintenance of equipment.  Only those authorized representatives listed may render maintenance service, unless the list is subsequently modified by mutual agreement between the contractor and the Contracting Officer, to add or terminate authorized representatives.

COPIER OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS  (CPC and FRMF)

Initial Installation:  If a copier is not fully operational at the time of installation, the Government may, at its option, require the contractor to provide an immediate replacement copier.   A fully operational copier can satisfactorily perform all the performance functions applicable to the copier.

Replacement Copier:  Replacement copiers are those copiers that are installed in place of a malfunctioning copier and that are intended to remain in place for the remainder of the contract period.

Monthly Effectiveness Level: Each copier furnished under the resulting contract shall perform at a 95 percent or higher Monthly Effectiveness Level (MEL).  The Monthly Effectiveness Level percentage shall be calculated as follows: Monthly Effectiveness Level percent = ((total monthly production period in hours) minus (total number of copier downtime hours over the monthly production period) divided by (total monthly production period in hours)) times 100.  The total monthly production period in hours shall be calculated by multiplying 8 hours per day times the number of working days in the month (weekend and Federal holidays excluded).  The total number of copier downtime hours over the monthly production period shall be calculated as the number of minutes the copier was down (unable to perform one or more of its specified functions) during the monthly production period, divided by 60.

Credit (MEL):  Failure of any copier to achieve a Monthly Effectiveness Level of 95 percent or higher shall entitle the Government to unilaterally take credit against the monthly billing for that particular copier.  The credit shall be calculated as the difference between 100 percent and the achieved MEL percent times the maximum monthly charge.  For copiers under a cost-per-copy plan, the maximum monthly charge will be calculated based on the lower number of copies specified under the Volume Band applicable to the copier.  For copiers under a flat-rate monthly-fee plan, the maximum monthly charge will be the flat-rate monthly charge.  In any month in which the Monthly Effectiveness Level is less than 95 percent, the Government will not be responsible for paying any charge for lack of monthly volume.  If the MEL is 95 percent or higher, the Government will take no credit.  e.g., Credit calculation: If the copier was down for 1200 minutes in a month which had a total monthly production period of 21 days and the monthly cost-per-copy charge was .005 cents per copy for a Volume Band III (30,000 copies per month) copier, the Government’s unilateral credit against the monthly billing would be calculated as follows:

	Total monthly productions hours: 21 days times 8 hours = 168 total monthly production hours 

           	Total number of copier downtime hours over the monthly production period: 

1200 minutes divided by 60 = 20 hours

        	MEL percent:  (168 minus 20, divided by 168) times 100 = 88.095 percent

Credit percentage taken: 100 percent minus 88.095 percent = 11.005 percent Monthly maximum cost-per-copy charge: 

 ($ .015 per copy) times  (30,000 copies) =  $450

Government credit: 11.005 percent of $450 = $ 49.52

If a copier operates at less than a 90 percent Monthly Effectiveness Level for any month, the ordering activity shall have the option to require the contractor to replace the copier with a new replacement copier and the Government’s right to unilaterally take credit against the monthly billing.

In lieu of requiring a replacement of the copier, the ordering activity (e.g., Program Manager) may require the contractor’s authorized representative to certify (e.g., on the repair record) that sufficient maintenance has been performed to ensure a 95 percent or higher Monthly Effectiveness Level.  If the ordering activity exercises this option, the Government shall still retain the right to unilaterally take credit against the monthly billing.  If after certification, the copier operates at less than 95 percent Monthly Effectiveness Level for the following month, the contractor shall replace the copier with a brand new copier or the Government may opt to terminate the contract for default.

REMANUFACTURED EQUIPMENT: Remanufactured equipment is defined as equipment which has been remanufactured/rebuilt to new machine specifications, and which has not been used at any time prior to delivery after the remanufacturing/rebuilding process.  Remanufacturing/rebuilding as defined herein shall include, but not limited to: cleaning, refinishing, inspection, and testing components.  Remanufactured/rebuilt components will be utilized as replacements only in applications that do not affect machine performance.  Warranty, maintenance, and service terms for remanufacture/rebuilt machines shall be identical to those provided for are machines.





    

                                                            AGENT AUTHORIZATION LETTER


                     (To be used in conjunction with K-FSS-1, if a third party agent is utilized by the proposing contractor)


OUTLINE FOR AGENT AUTHORIZATION – THIS INFORMATION MUST BE PROVIDED IF AN AGENT (I.E., CONSULTANT OR INDIVIDUAL OTHER THAN AN OFFICER OF THE
COMPANY) PREPARED THE OFFER AND WILL BE INVOLVED IN ANY PART OF THE EVALUATION OR NEGOTIATION OF THE OFFER.

In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 4.102(e), which states, “when an agent is to sign the contract, other than as stated in
paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the agent’s authorization to bind the principal must be established by evidence satisfactory to the
contracting officer.”

Offerors utilizing the services of a third party to negotiate on behalf of the offeror must submit an agent authorization letter identifying the
agent(s) designated to represent the offeror.  GSA will not accept offers submitted by a third party negotiator without a signed Agent
Authorization Letter.  Although an authorized negotiator may submit an offer on behalf of the offeror, at a minimum one of the offeror’s
authorized negotiators, who is an employee of the offeror, should have a valid digital certificate to access eOffer, or significant delays may
occur in the processing of the offer.

Please provide the following information on the principal’s letterhead:

For Solicitation No._________________, the undersigned contractor  (principal)_________, hereby authorizes __ (agent)___________, to act as
agent for the said contractor, with said specific authority delegated from the contractor to the agent.  The authority of the agent is limited
to exact and specific delegations.

(Check or add desired delegations)

1. Sign Contracts            _________________________
2. Negotiate changes   _________________________
3. Administer orders         _________________________
4. Receive Payments    _________________________
5. Contract Administration   _________________________
6. Other               _________________________


_________________________________________
Offeror (To be signed only by authorized principal, such as corporate officer of offeror; i.e. may not be signed by sales or purchasing agent,
etc)


__________________________        _____________
Title                             Date


BELOW ARE GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR ALL SOLICITATIONS.  PLEASE SEE SCHEDULE SPECIFIC TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS ATTACHMENTS FOR SCHEDULE SPECIFIC VARIATIONS TO THE REQUIREMENTS BELOW.



FACTOR 1, CORPORATE EXPERIENCE

The following must be provided in addition to any other information requested elsewhere in this solicitation for any stand alone services being offered:

1)	For stand alone services offered under this solicitation, an offeror is expected to have at least two (2) years of Corporate Experience.

Offerors must submit a two-page (maximum) narrative describing the company's corporate experience providing the types of services offered under the SINs offered. Your company must have provided these types of services to either a Government or Commercial entity for a minimum of two (2) years as noted above. At a minimum, your narrative must include the following:

i)	Organization's number of years of corporate experience in providing the services offered in the SINs proposed.

Organization's size, experience in the field, and resources available to enable the offeror to fulfill requirements of the size anticipated under any resultant Schedule contract;

Brief history of the organization's activities contributing to the development of expertise and capabilities related to this requirement;

Information that demonstrates the offeror's organizational and accounting controls and manpower presently in-house or the ability to acquire the type and kinds of personnel proposed;

Describe/identify how you intend to market these services to federal clients;

2)	No substitution for Corporate Experience will be considered.



FACTOR 2, RELEVANT PROJECT EXPERIENCE

1)	Most recent 2 years of Financial Reports (Balance Sheets and Income Statements)

2)	Company Profile to include background and qualifications of management team

3)	Company Training Requirements for each Labor Category Offered (if applicable)

4)	Description of each labor category offered

5)	For each service SIN offered, the offeror must provide descriptions of a minimum (depending on SIN offered) of two (2) projects. Each description must state the SIN to which it applies, and identify the specific services being proposed for that SIN.

The projects must either have been completed within the last two years or be on-going. For on-going contracts with a base year and option years, at a minimum, the base year must have been completed; for multi-year task orders, at a minimum, the first year must have been completed.

The offeror must demonstrate that the tasks performed are of a similar complexity to the work solicited under each SIN. The offer may provide the same project for more than one SIN as long as the description identifies which specific work relates to each SIN. All examples of completed services must have been found to be acceptable by the client. Project descriptions shall not exceed four pages per project.

Each project description shall include the following customer reference information:

Project/Contract name

Customer/Client Name

Brief summary of the project as a whole (background, purpose, etc.)

Dollar Amount of Contract and Dollar value received for the work performed relevant to the SIN offered

Project Duration, which includes the original estimated completion date and the actual completion date

Point of Contact, current telephone number, and current email address.

A copy of the Statement of Work for the project; this does not count against the limitation of four pages per project.Critical Information Specific to Schedule 36

The information provided in this document is specific to Schedule 36.  Before submitting your offer, please ensure you have met all of the requirements outlined in this document that are applicable to the products or services you are offering, as well as any other applicable general requirements listed in the solicitation attachments (e.g. Information and Instructions to Offerors, Commercial Sales Practices Format, etc.).



Any offer submitted after February 7, 2013 MUST be submitted with attachments from the Solicitation dated January 7, 2013 (Refresh 29).  Offers received after February 7, 2013 that are submitted with attachments on versions prior to Refresh 29 will be rejected as non-responsive.

        

Vendors offering Special Item Numbers (SINs) 51-55, 51-58, 51-58A, 51-58B, 51-100C, and 51-100F, must read the attachment, “Additional Information Pertaining to Schedule 36”



Special Item Number (SIN) 51-100 – Copiers:  Only for SIN 51-100, the “Letter of Supply” attachment must be from the original equipment manufacturer (OEM).



Special Item Number (SIN) 51-101-2 – Consumable Supplies for Copiers:  This SIN can only be offered in conjunction with SIN 51-100.  





General Requirements for Price Proposals applicable to Services offered under ALL Schedule 36 Special Item Numbers:



In accordance with FAR 8.404(a) supplies offered on schedule are listed at fix prices. Services offered on schedule are priced either at hourly rates or at a fixed price for performance of a specific task, i.e. installation of a product. 



Pricing submitted should be in accordance with commercial practices (e.g., labor rates or fixed unit prices).  If pricing is based on labor rates, the contractor shall supply and clearly define each labor category provided in this section.  Each labor category definition must include experience, minimum training, level of education, and certifications/licenses, if applicable.  If pricing is based on fixed unit prices then provide a detailed breakdown of what functions are within the fixed unit price. 



SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRICING SERVICES



I.  Pricing for Services must be substantiated by one of the following methods:



Established commercial catalog prices (published and dated pricelists); if the firm does not have a published and dated price list, the firm may utilize data in the form of internal business memorandums, quote sheets, etc.



If pricing cannot be supported by commercial pricing information, or for services subject to the Service Contract Act (SCA), the firm should provide limited cost data which is not certified.  This data should show how the offeror arrived at the proposed price, e.g. hourly rate + overhead + G&A + fee = the proposed rate for each labor category.  The data may include all direct costs, indirect costs, profit, and other factors that contribute to the proposed total price.  Fully burdened rates must be in compliance with DOL SCA Wage Determinations for SCA Covered Services.



Commercial pricing for Professional Services shall be submitted for the initial period only and will be awarded based on a commercial pricelist.  



Price adjustments for Service Contract Act labor categories will be in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.  


Price adjustments for Professional Services listed on a commercial pricelist will be in accordance with Clause 552-216-70 – Economic Price Adjustment – FSS Multiple Award Schedule Contracts (see Basic Solicitation).  


Price adjustments for Professional Services not listed on a commercial pricelist will be in accordance with an index mutually agreed upon at the time of award and clause I-FSS-969 – Economic Price Adjustment – FSS Multiple Award Schedule, which will be incorporated as appropriate.   


II.  Offerors are required to include the prevailing Industrial Funding Fee (IFF) in the prices submitted with their offer (See Clause 552.238-74 in the Basic Solicitation Document).  The IFF is a separate collection mechanism and should be added to the Net GSA Price offered, will be included in the award price(s), and will be reflected in the total amount charged to ordering activities.



Contact Information:

Oral or written requests for explanation of information regarding the Schedule 36 solicitation may be directed to:



Steven Lozada

Phone: (215) 446-5040

Email:  



Nicole Papanier

Phone: (215) 446-4882

Email:  



  CSP-1	COMMERCIAL SALES PRACTICES  FORMAT  

Name of Offeror	

SIN(s)	

Note:  Please  refer to clause 552.212-70, PREPARATION OF OFFER (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE), for additional information concerning your offer.  Provide the following information for each SIN (or group of SINs or SubSIN for which information is the same).

(1)	Provide the dollar value of sales to the general public at or based on an established catalog or market price during the previous 12 month period or the offerors last fiscal year:  $___________.  State begining and ending of the 12 month period.  Beginning________Ending______________.  In the event that a dollar value is not an appropriate measure of the sales, provide and describe your own measure of the sales of the item(s).

(2)	Show your total projected annual sales to the Government under this contract for the contract term, excluding options,  for each SIN offered.  If you currently hold a Federal Supply Schedule contract for the SIN the total projected annual sales should be based on your most recent 12 months of sales under that contract.  

	SIN___________________	$___________;
	SIN___________________	$___________;
	SIN___________________	$___________;

(3)	Based on your written discounting policies (standard commercial sales practices in the event you do not have written discounting policies), are the discounts and any concessions which you offer the Government equal to or better than your best price (discount and concessions in any combination) offered to any customer acquiring the same items regardless of quantity or terms and conditions?  YES____  NO_____.  (See definition of “concession” and “discount” in 552.212-70.)

(4)	(a)	Based on your written discounting policies (standard commercial sales practices in the event you do not have written discounting policies), provide information as requested for each SIN (or group of SINs for which the information is the same) in accordance with the instructions at Figure 515.4-2, which is provided in this solicitation for your convenience.  The information should be provided in the chart below or in an equivalent format developed by the offeror.  Rows should be added to accommodate as many customers as required.



	(b)	Do any deviations from your written policies or standard commercial sales practices disclosed in the above chart ever result in better discounts (lower prices) or concessions than indicated?  YES ____ NO_____.  If YES, explain deviations in accordance with the instructions at Figure 515.4-2, which is provided in this solicitation for your convenience .

(5)	If you are a dealer/reseller without significant sales to the general public, you should provide manufacturers’ information required by paragraphs (1) through (4) above for each item/SIN offered, if the manufacturer’s sales under any resulting contract are expected to exceed $500,000.  You must also obtain written authorization from the manufacturer(s) for Government access, at any time before award or before agreeing to a modification, to the manufacturer’s sales records for the purpose of verifying the information submitted by the manufacturer.  The information is required in order to enable the Government to make a determination that the offered price is fair and reasonable.  To expedite the review and processing of offers, you should advise the manufacturer(s) of this requirement.  The contracting officer may require the information be submitted on electronic media with commercially available spreadsheet(s).  The information may be provided by the manufacturer directly to the Government.  If the manufacturer's item(s) is being offered by multiple dealers/resellers, only one copy of the requested information should be submitted to the Government.  In addition, you must submit the following information along with a listing of contact information regarding each of the manufacturers whose products and/or services are included in the offer (include the manufacturer's name, address, the manufacturer's contact point, telephone number, and FAX number) for each model offered  by SIN:

	(a)	Manufacturer's Name

	(b)	Manufacturer's Part Number

	(c)	Dealer's/Reseller's Part Number

	(d)	Product Description

	(e)	Manufacturer's List Price

	(f)	Dealer's/Reseller's percentage discount from List Price or net prices

Figure 515.4-2—Instructions for Commercial Sales Practices Format

If you responded “YES” to question (3), on the COMMERCIAL SALES PRACTICES FORMAT, complete the chart in question (4)(a) for the customer(s) who receive your best discount.  If you responded “NO” complete the chart in question (4)(a) showing your written policies or standard sales practices for all customers or customer categories to whom you sell at a price (discounts and concessions in combination) that is equal to or better than the price(s) offered to the Government under this solicitation or with which the Offeror has a current agreement to sell at a discount which equals or exceeds the discount(s) offered under this solicitation.  Such agreement shall be in effect on the date the offer is submitted or contain an effective date during the proposed multiple award schedule contract period.  If your offer is lower than your price to other customers or customer categories, you will be aligned with the customer or category of customer that receives your best price for purposes of the Price Reduction clause at 552.238-75.  The Government expects you to provide information required by the format in accordance with these instructions that is, to the best of your knowledge and belief, current, accurate, and complete as of 14 calendar days prior to its submission.  You must also disclose any changes in your price list(s),  discounts and/or discounting policies which occur after the offer is submitted, but before the close of negotiations.  If your discount practices vary by model or product line, the discount information should be by model or product line as appropriate.  You may limit the number of models or product lines reported to those which exceed 75% of actual historical Government sales (commercial sales may be substituted if Government sales are unavailable) value of the special item number (SIN).

Column 1—Identify the applicable customer or category of customer.  A "customer" is any entity, except the Federal Government, which acquires supplies or services from the Offeror.  The term customer includes, but is not limited to original equipment manufacturers, value added resellers, state and local governments, distributors, educational institutions (an elementary, junior high, or degree granting school which maintains a regular faculty and established curriculum and an organized body of students), dealers, national accounts, and end users.  In any instance where the Offeror is asked to disclose information for a customer, the Offeror may disclose information by category of customer if the offeror's discount policies or practices are the same for all customers in the category.  (Use a separate line for each customer or category of customer.)

Column 2—Identify the discount.  The term “discount” is as defined in solicitation clause 552.212-70, Preparation of Offer (Multiple Award Schedule).  Indicate the best discount (based on your written discounting policies or standard commercial discounting practices if you do not have written discounting policies) at which you sell to the customer or category of customer identified in column 1, without regard to quantity; terms and conditions of the agreements under which the discounts are given; and whether the agreements are written or oral.  Net prices  or discounts off of other price lists should be expressed as percentage discounts from the price list which is the basis of your offer.  If the discount disclosed is a combination of various discounts (prompt payment, quantity, etc.), the percentage should be broken out for each type of discount.  If the price lists which are the basis of the discounts given to the customers identified in the chart are different than the price list submitted upon which your offer is based, identify the type or title and date of each price list.  The contracting officer may require submission of these price lists.  To expedite evaluation, offerors may provide these price lists at the time of submission.

Column 3—Identify the quantity or volume of sales.  Insert the minimum quantity or sales volume which the identified customer or category of customer must either purchase/order, per order or within a specified period,  to earn the discount.  When purchases/orders must be placed within a specified period to earn a discount indicate the time period.

Column 4—Indicate the FOB delivery term for each identified customer.  See FAR 47.3 for an explanation of FOB delivery terms.

Column 5—Indicate concessions regardless of quantity granted to the identified customer or category of customer.  Concessions are defined in solicitation clause 552.212-70, Preparation of Offers (Multiple Award Schedule).  If the space provided is inadequate, the disclosure should be made on a separate sheet by reference.

If you respond “YES” to question 4 (b) in the Commercial Sales Practices Format, provide an explanation of the circumstances under which you deviate from your written policies or standard commercial sales practices disclosed in the chart on the Commercial Sales Practices Format and explain how often they occur.  Your explanation should include a discussion of situations that lead to deviations from standard practice, an explanation of how often they occur, and the controls you employ to assure the integrity of your pricing.  Examples of typical deviations may include, but are not limited to, one time goodwill discounts to charity organizations or to compensate an otherwise disgruntled customer; a limited sale of obsolete or damaged goods; the sale of sample goods to a new customer; or the sales of prototype goods for testing purposes.

If deviations from your written policies or standard commercial sales practices disclosed in the chart on the Commercial Sales Practices Format are so significant and/or frequent that the Contracting Officer cannot establish whether the price(s) offered is fair and reasonable, then you may be asked to provide additional information.  The Contracting Officer may ask for information to demonstrate that you have made substantial sales of the item(s) in the commercial market consistent with the information reflected on the chart on the Commercial Sales Practice Format, a description of the conditions surrounding those sales deviations, or other information that may be necessary in order for the Contracting Officer to determine whether your offered price(s) is fair and reasonable.  In cases where additional information is requested, the Contracting Officer will target the request in order to limit the submission of data to that needed to establish the reasonableness of the offered price.






Column 1—
Customer


Column 2—
Discount


Column 3—
 Quantity/Volume


Column 4—
FOB Term


Column 5—
Concessions





























SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF 6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

3FNJ-C1-000001-B -- REFRESH #29
b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

Orig: 08/03/2007 Ref:01/07/2013
8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY

a. NAME

Steven Lozada
CODE 10. THIS ACQUISITON IS

215-446-5040

NONE

X GSA FAS 3QSAC 20 N 8TH ST., ROOM 1029 PHILADELPHIA, PA - 19107.

UNRESTRICTED OR

X

SET ASIDE:

X
NAICS: SIZE STANDARD:

SMALL BUSINESS

% FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

See Solicitation Part-I
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO 12. DISCOUNT TERMS 13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) CODE 16. ADMINISTERED BY

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS

8(A)

13b. RATING 14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE

X

RFP

Ordering Agency
17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR CODE FACILITY CODE

See block 9.
18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY CODE

Ordering Agency
TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

See Part I. of the Solicitation.

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

X

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND

2

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED:

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER PARTIAL FINAL 38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005)

BACK

TABLE OF CONTENTS
REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE...........
52.202-1 - DEFINITIONS (JAN 2012)........................................................................................................1 52.203-13 - CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010)................... 1 52.203-3 - GRATUITIES (APR 1984)......................................................................................................... 4 52.203-6 - RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006) (ALTERNATE I -- OCT 1995)..................................................................................................................... 5 52.204-10 - REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (AUG 2012).................................................................................................................................5 52.204-4 - PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED ON POSTCONSUMER FIBER CONTENT PAPER (MAY 2011)................................................................................................................................................. 8 52.204-9 - PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011)...... 8 52.207-5 - OPTION TO PURCHASE EQUIPMENT (FEB 1995).............................................................. 8 52.208-9 - CONTRACTOR USE OF MANDATORY SOURCES OF SUPPLY OR SERVICES (OCT 2008)............................................................................................................................................................9 52.209-10 - PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS (MAY 2012)................................................................................................................................................. 9 52.211-16 - VARIATION IN QUANTITY (APR 1984).............................................................................. 10 52.212-1 - INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)............................ 10 52.212-4 - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) (DEVIATION I -- FEB 2007).................................................................................................................... 14 52.214-34 - SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE (APR 1991)..........................18 52.214-35 - SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN U.S. CURRENCY (APR 1991)............................................ 18 52.215-21 - REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA--MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010) (ALTERNATE IV OCT 2010)................................................................................................................................................. 18 52.217-8 - OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)..................................................................... 18 52.219-13 - NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE OF ORDERS (NOV 2011)............................................................18 52.219-14 - LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (NOV 2011).........................................................18 52.219-16 - LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999)................................. 19 52.219-27 - NOTICE OF SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011)............................................................................................................................................... 20 52.219-28 - POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (APR 2012)........ 21 52.219-29 - NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (APR 2012)...........................................................................................22 52.219-3 - NOTICE OF TOTAL HUBZONE SET-ASIDE OR SOLE SOURCE AWARD (NOV 2011)....24 52.219-30 - NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM (APR 2012)....................25 52.219-6 - NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011)....................................... 27 52.219-8 - UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011).......................................... 28 52.219-9 - SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011) (ALTERNATE II -- OCT 2001)..........................................................................................................................................................29 52.222-1 - NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES (FEB 1997).............................. 36 52.222-19 - CHILD LABOR--COOPERATION WITH AUTHORITIES AND REMEDIES (APR 2012)..36 52.222-21 - PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999).............................................37 52.222-24 - PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE REVIEW (FEB 1999)... 38 52.222-26 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007).................................................................................. 38 52.222-3 - CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)............................................................................................... 40 52.222-35 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS (SEP 2010)...................................................... 40 52.222-36 - AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010)...................43 52.222-37 - EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON VETERANS (SEP 2010)..................................................... 44 52.222-40 - NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS

ACT (DEC 2010)....................................................................................................................................... 45 52.222-42 - STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)..................47 52.222-43 - FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT -- PRICE ADJUSTMENT (MULTIPLE YEAR AND OPTION CONTRACTS) (SEP 2009)......................................47 52.222-46 - EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993).48 52.222-49 - SERVICE CONTRACT ACT -- PLACE OF PERFORMANCE UNKNOWN (MAY 1989)....49 52.222-54 - EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012)............................................... 49 52.222-7 - WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS (FEB 1988)..............................................................................51 52.222-8 - PAYROLLS AND BASIC RECORDS (JUN 2010)...................................................................52 52.222-9 - APPRENTICES AND TRAINEES (JUL 2005)........................................................................ 53 52.223-10 - WASTE REDUCTION PROGRAM (MAY 2011)................................................................... 54 52.223-18 - ENCOURAGING CONTRACTOR POLICIES TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (AUG 2011).............................................................................................................................. 55 52.223-5 - POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION (MAY 2011)......... 56 52.224-1 - PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)......................................................................... 56 52.224-2 - PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)..................................................................................................... 56 52.225-13 - RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)................................57 52.225-25 - PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES ENGAGING IN SANCTIONED ACTIVITIES RELATING TO IRAN -- REPRESENTATION AND CERTIFICATION (NOV 2011)......... 57 52.225-5 - TRADE AGREEMENTS (MAY 2012)...................................................................................... 59 52.228-5 - INSURANCE--WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION (JAN 1997)......................... 61 52.229-1 - STATE AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984)............................................................................... 61 52.229-3 - FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 2003) (DEVIATION I - FEB 2007)............ 62 52.232-17 - INTEREST (OCT 2010) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003).......................................................... 62 52.232-19 - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR (APR 1984) (DEVIATION I MAY 2003).................................................................................................................................................63 52.232-33 - PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER -- CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)................................................................................................................... 63 52.232-34 - PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--OTHER THAN CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (MAY 1999) (DEVIATION I - FEB 2007).......................................... 65 52.232-36 - PAYMENT BY THIRD PARTY (FEB 2010) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003)........................... 67 52.232-37 - MULTIPLE PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS (MAY 1999)..................................................... 68 52.233-1 - DISPUTES (JUL 2002)............................................................................................................68 52.233-3 - PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)................................................................................ 69 52.233-4 - APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)........................... 70 52.237-1 - SITE VISIT (APR 1984)........................................................................................................... 70 52.237-10 - IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997).............................. 70 52.237-2 - PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984)..........................................................................................................................................................71 52.237-3 - CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)..............................................................................71 52.239-1 - PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)......................................................... 72 52.242-13 - BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)...................................................................................................72 52.242-15 - STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)...................................................................................... 72 52.246-4 - INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003)...73 52.247-1 - COMMERCIAL BILL OF LADING NOTATIONS (FEB 2006).............................................. 74 52.247-32 - F.O.B. ORIGIN, FREIGHT PREPAID (FEB 2006).............................................................. 74 52.247-34 - F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003).......................................76 52.247-38 - F.O.B. INLAND CARRIER, POINT OF EXPORTATION (FEB 2006).................................76 52.247-39 - F.O.B. INLAND POINT, COUNTRY OF IMPORTATION (APR 1984)............................... 77 52.247-58 - LOADING, BLOCKING, AND BRACING OF FREIGHT CAR AND TRAILER-ON-FLAT CAR (PIGGYBACK) SHIPMENTS (DEVIATION I - OCT 1984).............................................................77 52.247-64 - PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED U.S.--FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS (FEB 2006) (ALTERNATE I -- APR 2003)......................................................................................................... 78 52.247-65 - F.O.B. ORIGIN, PREPAID FREIGHT--SMALL PACKAGE SHIPMENTS (JAN 1991)...... 79 52.247-68 - REPORT OF SHIPMENT (REPSHIP) (FEB 2006).............................................................. 79 552.203-71 - RESTRICTION ON ADVERTISING (SEP 1999)................................................................ 80 552.211-73 - MARKING (FEB 1996)........................................................................................................80 552.211-75 - PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, AND PACKING (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003)..........................................................................................................................................................80 552.211-77 - PACKING LIST (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003)................................................81

552.212-70 - PREPARATION OF OFFER (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (AUG 1997)............... 81 552.215-71 - EXAMINATION OF RECORDS BY GSA (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (JUL 2003)..........................................................................................................................................................82 552.215-72 - PRICE ADJUSTMENT--FAILURE TO PROVIDE ACCURATE INFORMATION (AUG 1997)..........................................................................................................................................................82 552.219-72 - PREPARATION, SUBMISSION, AND NEGOTIATION OF SUBCONTRACTING PLANS (MAR 2012)............................................................................................................................................... 83 552.223-70 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (MAY 1989).........................................................................84 552.223-71 - NONCONFORMING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (SEP 1999)......................................... 84 552.229-70 - FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984).......................................................84 552.229-71 - FEDERAL EXCISE TAX--DC GOVERNMENT (SEP 1999).............................................. 85 552.232-23 - ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (SEP 1999)............................................................................ 85 552.232-74 - INVOICE PAYMENTS (SEP 1999)..................................................................................... 85 552.232-79 - PAYMENT BY CREDIT CARD (MAY 2003).......................................................................86 552.232-8 - DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (APR 1989) (DEVIATION FAR 52.232-8)......... 87 552.232-81 - PAYMENTS BY NON-FEDERAL ORDERING ACTIVITIES (MAY 2003)......................... 87 552.232-83 - CONTRACTOR'S BILLING RESPONSIBILITIES (MAY 2003)..........................................88 552.238-70 - IDENTIFICATION OF ELECTRONIC OFFICE EQUIPMENT PROVIDING ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE HANDICAPPED (SEP 1991)...................................................................... 88 552.238-71 - SUBMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AUTHORIZED FSS SCHEDULE PRICELISTS (SEP 1999) (DEVIATION I -- DEC 2004)................................................................................................ 89 552.238-72 - IDENTIFICATION OF PRODUCTS THAT HAVE ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRIBUTES (SEP 2003)..........................................................................................................................................................89 552.238-73 - CANCELLATION (SEP 1999)............................................................................................. 91 552.238-74 - INDUSTRIAL FUNDING FEE AND SALES REPORTING (JUL 2003)............................ 91 552.238-75 - PRICE REDUCTIONS (MAY 2004) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003).................................... 93 552.238-77 - DEFINITION (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (MAY 2003).......................................94 552.243-72 - MODIFICATIONS (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (JUL 2000) (DEVIATION I - SEP 2010)..........................................................................................................................................................94 552.246-73 - WARRANTY--MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE (MAR 2000).......................................... 95 C-FSS-412 - CHARACTERISTICS OF ELECTRIC CURRENT (MAY 2000).......................................... 96 D-FSS-471 - MARKING AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS PER SHIPMENT (APR 1984). 96 D-FSS-477 - TRANSSHIPMENTS (APR 1984).........................................................................................96 I-FSS-314 - FOREIGN TAXES AND DUTIES (DEC 1990)..................................................................... 97 I-FSS-594 - PARTS AND SERVICE (OCT 1988)..................................................................................... 97

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.202-1
52.202-1 DEFINITIONS (JAN 2012)
(a) When a solicitation provision or contract clause uses a word or term that is defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the word or term has the same meaning as the definition in FAR 2.101 in effect at the time the solicitation was issued, unless(1) The solicitation, or amended solicitation, provides a different definition; (2) The contracting parties agree to a different definition; (3) The part, subpart, or section of the FAR where the provision or clause is prescribed provides a different meaning; or (4) The word or term is defined in FAR Part 31, for use in the cost principles and procedures. (b) The FAR Index is a guide to words and terms the FAR defines and shows where each definition is located. The FAR Index is available via the Internet at http://www.acquisition.gov/far at the end of the FAR, after the FAR Appendix.

52.203-13
52.203-13 Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause ­ Agent means any individual, including a director, an officer, an employee, or an independent Contractor, authorized to act on behalf of the organization. Full cooperation ­ (1) Means disclosure to the Government of the information sufficient for law enforcement to identify the nature and extent of the offense and the individuals responsible for the conduct. It includes providing timely and complete response to Government auditors' and investigators' request for documents and access to employees with information; (2) Does not foreclose any Contractor rights arising in law, the FAR, or the terms of the contract. It does not require ­ (i) A Contractor to waive its attorney-client privilege or the protections afforded by the attorney work product doctrine; or (ii) Any officer, director, owner, or employee of the Contractor, including a sole proprietor, to waive his or her attorney client privilege or Fifth Amendment rights; and (3) Does not restrict a Contractor from ­ (i) Conducting an internal investigation; or (ii) Defending a proceeding or dispute arising under the contract or related to a potential or disclosed violation. Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions).

Page: 1 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Subcontract means any contract entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. Subcontractor means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnished supplies or services to or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor. United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas. (b) Code of business ethics and conduct. (1) Within 30 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer establishes a longer time period, the Contractor shall ­ (i) Have a written code of business ethics and conduct; (ii) Make a copy of the code available to each employee engaged in performance of the contract. (2) The Contractor shall ­ (i) Exercise due diligence to prevent and detect criminal conduct; and (ii) Otherwise promote an organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to compliance with the law. (3) (i) The Contractor shall timely disclose, in writing, to the agency Office of the Inspector General (OIG), with a copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in connection with the award, performance, or closeout of this contract or any subcontract thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or subcontractor of the Contractor has committed ­ (A) A violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 of the United States Code; or (B) A violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733). (ii) The Government, to the extent permitted by law and regulation, will safeguard and treat information obtained pursuant to the Contractor's disclosure as confidential where the information has been marked "confidential" or "proprietary" by the company. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, such information will not be released by the Government to the public pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request, 5 U.S.C. Section 552, without prior notification to the Contractor. The Government may transfer documents provided by the Contractor to any department or agency within the Executive Branch if the information relates to matters within the organization's jurisdiction. (iii) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument intended for use by multiple agencies, the Contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the agency responsible for the basic contract. (c) Business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system. This paragraph (c) does not apply if the Contractor has represented itself as a small business concern pursuant to the award of this contract or if this contract is for the acquisition of a commercial item as defined at FAR 2.101. The Contractor shall establish the following within 90 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer establishes a longer time period:

Page: 2 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) An ongoing business ethics awareness and compliance program. (i) This program shall include reasonable steps to communicate periodically and in a practical manner the Contractor's standards and procedures and other aspects of the Contractor's business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system, by conducting effective training programs and otherwise disseminating information appropriate to an individual's respective roles and responsibilities. (ii) The training conducted under this program shall be provided to the Contractor's principals and employees, and as appropriate, the Contractor's agents and subcontractors. (2) An internal control system. (i) The Contractor's internal control system shall ­ (A) Establish standards and procedures to facilitate timely discovery of improper conduct in connection with Government contracts; and (B) Ensure corrective measures are promptly instituted and carried out. (ii) At a minimum, the Contractor's internal control system shall provide for the following: (A) Assignment of responsibility at a sufficiently high level and adequate resources to ensure effectiveness of the business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system. (B) Reasonable efforts not to include an individual as a principal, whom due diligence would have exposed as having engaged in conduct that is in conflict with the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct. (C) Periodic reviews of company business practices, procedures, policies, and internal controls for compliance with the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct and the special requirements of Government contracting, including ­ (1) Monitoring and auditing to detect criminal conduct; (2) Periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of the business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system, especially if criminal conduct has been detected; and (3) Periodic assessment of the risk of criminal conduct, with appropriate steps to design, implement, or modify the business ethics awareness and compliance program and the internal control system as necessary to reduce the risk of criminal conduct identified through this process. (D) An internal reporting mechanism, such as a hotline, which allows for anonymity or confidentiality, by which employees may report suspected instances of improper conduct, and instructions that encourage employees to make such reports. (E) Disciplinary action for improper conduct or for failing to take reasonable steps to prevent or detect improper conduct. (F) Timely disclosure, in writing, to the agency OIG, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in connection with the award, performance, or closeout of any Government contract performed by the Contractor or a

Page: 3 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

subcontractor thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or subcontractor of the Contractor has committed a violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 U.S.C. or a violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733). (1) If a violation relates to more than one Government contract, the Contractor may make the disclosure to the agency OIG and Contracting Officer responsible for the largest dollar value contract impacted by the violation. (2) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument intended for use by multiple agencies, the contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the agency responsible for the basic contract, and the respective agencies' contracting officers. (3) The disclosure requirement for an individual contract continues until at least 3 years after final payment on the contract. (4) The Government will safeguard such disclosures in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this clause. (G) Full cooperation with any Government agencies responsible for audits, investigations, or corrective actions. (d) Subcontracts. (1) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts that have a value in excess of $5,000,000 and a performance period of more than 120 days. (2) In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the Contracting Officer.

52.203-3
52.203-3 GRATUITIES (APR 1984)
(a) The right of the Contractor to proceed may be terminated by written notice if, after notice and hearing, the agency head or a designee determines that the Contractor, its agent, or another representative-- (1) Offered or gave a gratuity (e.g., an entertainment or gift) to an officer, official, or employee of the Government; and (2) Intended, by the gratuity, to obtain a contract or favorable treatment under a contract. (b) The facts supporting this determination may be reviewed by any court having lawful jurisdiction. (c) If this contract is terminated under paragraph (a) above, the Government is entitled-- (1) To pursue the same remedies as in a breach of the contract; and (2) In addition to any other damages provided by law, to exemplary damages of not less than 3

Page: 4 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

nor more than 10 times the cost incurred by the Contractor in giving gratuities to the person concerned, as determined by the agency head or a designee. (This subparagraph (c)(2) is applicable only if this contract uses money appropriated to the Department of Defense.) (d) The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.

52.203-6
52.203-6 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006) (ALTERNATE I--OCT 1995)
(a) Except as provided in (b) below, the Contractor shall not enter into any agreement with an actual or prospective subcontractor, nor otherwise act in any manner, which has or may have the effect of restricting sales by such subcontractors directly to the Government of any item or process (including computer software) made or furnished by the subcontractor under this contract or under any follow-on production contract. (b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from asserting rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. For acquisitions of commercial items, the prohibition in paragraph (a) applies only to the extent that any agreement restricting sales by subcontractors results in the Federal Government being treated differently from any other prospective purchaser for the sale of the commercial item(s). (c) The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

52.204-10
52.204-10 REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (AUG 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause: "Executive" means officers, managing partners, or any other employees in management positions. "First-tier subcontract" means a subcontract awarded directly by the Contractor for the purpose of acquiring supplies or services (including construction) for performance of a prime contract. It does not include the Contractor's supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for materials or supplies that benefit multiple contracts and/or the costs of which are normally applied to a Contractor's general and administrative expenses or indirect costs. "Month of award" means the month in which a contract is signed by the Contracting Officer or the month in which a first-tier subcontract is signed by the Contractor. "Total compensation" means the cash and noncash dollar value earned by the executive during the Contractor's preceding fiscal year and includes the following (for more information see 17 CFR 229.402(c)(2)): (1) Salary and bonus. (2) Awards of stock, stock options, and stock appreciation rights. Use the dollar amount recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the fiscal year in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation. (3) Earnings for services under non-equity incentive plans. This does not include group life, health, hospitalization or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in favor of

Page: 5 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

executives, and are available generally to all salaried employees. (4) Change in pension value. This is the change in present value of defined benefit and actuarial pension plans. (5) Above-market earnings on deferred compensation which is not tax-qualified. (6) Other compensation, if the aggregate value of all such other compensation (e.g., severance, termination payments, value of life insurance paid on behalf of the employee, perquisites or property) for the executive exceeds $10,000. (b) Section 2(d)(2) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government Funding Transparency Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-252), requires the Contractor to report information on subcontract awards. The law requires all reported information be made public, therefore, the Contractor is responsible for notifying its subcontractors that the required information will be made public. (c) Nothing in this clause requires the disclosure of classified information. (d) (1) Executive compensation of the prime contractor. As a part of its annual registration requirement in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database (FAR clause 52.204-7), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for its preceding completed fiscal year, if ­ (i) In the Contractor's preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received ­ (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm.). (2) First-tier subcontract information. Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, or as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, the Contractor shall report the following information at http://www.fsrs.gov for that first-tier subcontract. (The Contractor shall follow the instructions at http://www.fsrs.gov to report the data.) (i) Unique identifier (DUNS Number) for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the subcontractor's parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company. (ii) Name of the subcontractor. (iii) Amount of the subcontract award. (iv) Date of the subcontract award. (v) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract.

Page: 6 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(vi) Subcontract number (the subcontract number assigned by the Contractor). (vii) Subcontractor's physical address including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (viii) Subcontractor's primary performance location including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district. (ix) The prime contract number, and order number if applicable. (x) Awarding agency name and code. (xi) Funding agency name and code. (xii) Government contracting office code. (xiii) Treasury account symbol (TAS) as reported in FPDS. (xiv) The applicable North American Industry Classification System code (NAICS). (3) Executive compensation of the first-tier subcontractor. Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract with a value of $25,000 or more, and annually thereafter (calculated from the prime contract award date), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives for that first-tier subcontractor for the first-tier subcontractor's preceding completed fiscal year at http://www.fsrs.gov, if ­ (i) In the subcontractor's preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received ­ (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal financial assistance; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm.) (e) The Contractor shall not split or break down first-tier subcontract awards to a value less than $25,000 to avoid the reporting requirements in paragraph (d). (f) The Contractor is required to report information on a first-tier subcontract covered by paragraph (d) when the subcontract is awarded. Continued reporting on the same subcontract is not required unless one of the reported data elements changes during the performance of the subcontract. The Contractor is not required to make further reports after the first-tier subcontract expires. (g) (1) If the Contractor in the previous tax year had gross income, from all sources, under $300,000, the Contractor is exempt from the requirement to report subcontractor awards. (2) If a subcontractor in the previous tax year had gross income from all sources under $300,000, the Contractor does not need to report awards for that subcontractor. (h) The FSRS database at http://www.fsrs.gov will be prepopulated with some information from CCR and FPDS databases. If FPDS information is incorrect, the contractor should notify the contracting officer. If the CCR database information is incorrect, the contractor is responsible for correcting this information.

Page: 7 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.204-4
52.204-4 PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED ON POSTCONSUMER FIBER CONTENT PAPER (MAY 2011)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- Postconsumer fiber means-- (1) Paper, paperboard, and fibrous materials from retail stores, office buildings, homes, and so forth, after they have passed through their end-usage as a consumer item, including: used corrugated boxes; old newspapers; old magazines; mixed waste paper; tabulating cards; and used cordage; or (2) All paper, paperboard, and fibrous materials that enter and are collected from municipal solid waste; but not (3) Fiber derived from printers' over-runs, converters' scrap, and over-issue publications. (b) The Contractor is required to submit paper documents, such as offers, letters, or reports that are printed or copied double-sided on paper containing at least 30 percent postconsumer fiber, whenever practicable, when not using electronic commerce methods to submit information or data to the Government.

52.204-9
52.204-9 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011)
(a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24, and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government: (1) When no longer needed for contract performance. (2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee's employment. (3) Upon contract completion or termination. (c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor`s employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.

52.207-5
52.207-5 OPTION TO PURCHASE EQUIPMENT (FEB 1995)

Page: 8 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(a) The Government may purchase the equipment provided on a lease or rental basis under this contract. The Contracting Officer may exercise this option only by providing a unilateral modification to the Contractor. The effective date of the purchase will be specified in the unilateral modification and may be any time during the period of the contract, including any extensions thereto. (b) Except for final payment and transfer of title to the Government, the lease or rental portion of the contract becomes complete and lease or rental charges shall be discontinued on the day immediately preceding the effective date of purchase specified in the unilateral modification required in paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) The purchase conversion cost of the equipment shall be computed as of the effective date specified in the unilateral modification required in paragraph (a) of this clause, on the basis of the purchase price set forth in the contract, minus the total purchase option credits accumulated during the period of lease or rental, calculated by the formula contained elsewhere in this contract. (d) The accumulated purchase option credits available to determine the purchase conversion cost will also include any credits accrued during a period of lease or rental of the equipment under any previous Government contract if the equipment has been on continuous lease or rental. The movement of equipment from one site to another site shall be "continuous rental."

52.208-9
52.208-9 CONTRACTOR USE OF MANDATORY SOURCES OF SUPPLY OR SERVICES (OCT 2006)
(a) Certain supplies or services to be provided under this contract for use by the Government are required by law to be obtained from the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (the Committee) under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 48). Additionally, certain of these supplies are available from the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), the General Services Administration (GSA), or the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Contractor shall obtain mandatory supplies or services to be provided for Government use under this contract from the specific sources indicated in the contract schedule. (b) The Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer if a mandatory source is unable to provide the supplies or services by the time required, or if the quality of supplies or services provided by the mandatory source is unsatisfactory. The Contractor shall not purchase the supplies or services from other sources until the Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that the Committee or an AbilityOne central nonprofit agency has authorized purchase from other sources. (c) Price and delivery information for the mandatory supplies is available from the Contracting Officer for the supplies obtained through the DLA/GSA/VA distribution facilities. For mandatory supplies or services that are not available from DLA/GSA/VA, price and delivery information is available from the appropriate central nonprofit agency. Payments shall be made directly to the source making delivery. Points of contact for AbilityOne central nonprofit agencies are: (1) National Industries for the Blind 1310 Braddock Place Alexandria, VA 22314-1691 (703) 310-0500 (2) NISH 8401 Old Courthouse Road Vienna, VA 22182 (571) 226-4660

52.209-10
52.209-10 PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED

Page: 9 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS (MAY 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause ­ Inverted domestic corporation means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned ­ (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. (b) If the contractor reorganizes as an inverted domestic corporation or becomes a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation at any time during the period of performance of this contract, the Government may be prohibited from paying for Contractor activities performed after the date when it becomes an inverted domestic corporation or subsidiary. The Government may seek any available remedies in the event the Contractor fails to perform in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract as a result of Government action under this clause. (c) Exceptions to this prohibition are located at 9.108-2.

52.211-16
52.211-16 VARIATION IN QUANTITY (APR 1984)
(a) A variation in the quantity of any item called for by this contract will not be accepted unless the variation has been caused by conditions of loading, shipping, or packing, or allowances in manufacturing processes, and then only to the extent, if any, specified in paragraph (b) below. (b) The permissible variation shall be limited to: N/A percent increase N/A percent decrease This increase or decrease shall apply to N/A.

52.212-1
52.212-1 INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012)
(a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition appear in Block 10 of the solicitation cover sheet (SF 1449). However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show --

Page: 10 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and (11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2) (i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and --

Page: 11 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1) (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to -GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section, Suite 8100, 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20407

Page: 12 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978 (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by -(i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS +4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS +4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS +4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a U.S. Government contract when contacting the local Dun ad Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the CCR database accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757. (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:

Page: 13 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.

52.212-4
52.212-4 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) (DEVIATION FEB 2007)
(a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The ordering activity reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The ordering activity may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the ordering activity may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The ordering activity must exercise its postacceptance rights (1) within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered; and (2) before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is due to the defect in the item. (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the credit card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the ordering activity in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is

Page: 14 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) Invoice. (1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices. An invoice must include-- (i) Nam e and address of the Contractor; (ii) Invoice date and number; (iii) Contract number, contract line item number and, if applicable, the order number; (iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items delivered; (v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight of shipment if shipped on an ordering activity bill of lading; (vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered; (vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent; (viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and (ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information. (A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract. (B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause (e.g., 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other Than Central Contractor Registration), or applicable agency procedures. (C) EFT banking information is not required if the ordering activity waived the requirement to pay by EFT. (2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the ordering activity and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) Payment.

Page: 15 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Items accepted. Payment shall be made for items accepted by the ordering activity that have been delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract. (2) Prompt payment. The ordering activity will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315. (3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). If the ordering activity makes payment by EFT, see 52.212-5(b) for the appropriate EFT clause. (4) Discount. In connection with any discount offered for early payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the specified payment date if an electronic funds transfer payment is made. (5) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the ordering activity has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer and request instructions for disposition of the overpayment. (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the ordering activity upon: (1) Delivery of the supplies to a carrier, if transportation is f.o.b. origin; or (2) Delivery of the supplies to the ordering activity at the destination specified in the contract, if transportation is f.o.b. destination. (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) Termination for the Ordering Activity's convenience. The ordering activity reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the ordering activity using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the ordering activity any right to audit the Contractor's records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) Termination for cause. The ordering activity may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the ordering activity, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the ordering activity shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the ordering activity for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the ordering activity improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the ordering activity upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the ordering activity takes physical possession. (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.

Page: 16 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the ordering activity for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. 3701, et seq., Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act; 41 U.S.C. 51-58, Anti-Kickback Act of 1986; 41 U.S.C. 265 and 10 U.S.C. 2409 relating to whistleblower protections; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. 423 relating to procurement integrity. (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (1) the schedule of supplies/services; (2) the Assignments, Disputes, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to ordering activity Contracts paragraphs of this clause; (3) the clause at 52.212-5; (4) addenda to this solicitation or contract, including any license agreements for computer software; (5) solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation; (6) other paragraphs of this clause; (7) the Standard Form 1449; (8) other documents, exhibits, and attachments; and (9) the specification. (t) Central Contractor Registration (CCR). (1) Unless exempted by an addendum to this contract, the Contractor is responsible during performance and through final payment of any contract for the accuracy and completeness of the data within the CCR database, and for any liability resulting from the ordering activity's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in the CCR database after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates its information in the CCR database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in the CCR does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (2) (i) If a Contractor has legally changed its business name, "doing business as" name, or division name (whichever is shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements in FAR Subpart 42.12, the Contractor shall provide the responsible Contracting Officer a minimum of one business day's written notification of its intention to (A) change the name in the CCR database; (B) comply with the requirements of Subpart 42.12; and (C) agree in writing to the timeline and procedures specified by the responsible Contracting Officer. The Contractor must provide with the notification sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name. (ii) If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (t)(2)(i) of this clause, or fails to perform the agreement at paragraph (t)(2)(i)(C) of this clause, and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-name agreement, the CCR information that shows the Contractor to be other than the Contractor indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of Payment" paragraph of the electronic funds transfer (EFT) clause of this contract. (3) The Contractor shall not change the name or address for EFT payments or manual payments, as appropriate, in the CCR record to reflect an assignee for the purpose of assignment of claims (see Subpart 32.8, Assignment of Claims). Assignees shall be separately registered in the CCR database. Information provided to the Contractor's CCR record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than that Contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the "Suspension of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of this contract.

Page: 17 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(4) Offerors and Contractors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via CCR accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

52.214-34
52.214-34 SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE (APR 1991)
Offers submitted in response to this solicitation shall be in the English language. Offers received in other than English shall be rejected.

52.214-35
52.214-35 SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN U.S. CURRENCY (APR 1991)
Offers submitted in response to this solicitation shall be in terms of U.S. dollars. Offers received in other than U.S. dollars shall be rejected.

52.215-21
52.215-21 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA -- MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010) (ALTERNATE IV -- OCT 2010)
(a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required. (b) Provide data described below: [Insert description of the data and the format that are required, including the access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with 15.403­3.] As determined by the contracting officer and any authorized representative.

52.217-8
52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)
The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within per task or delivery order.

52.219-13
52.219-13 NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE OF ORDERS (NOV 2011)
The Contracting Officer will give notice of the order or orders, if any, to be set aside for small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3) and the applicable small business program. This notice, and its restrictions, will apply only to the specific orders that have been set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3).

52.219-14
52.219-14 LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (NOV 2011)

Page: 18 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(a) This clause does not apply to the unrestricted portion of a partial set-aside. (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for small business concerns or 8(a) concerns; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for small business concerns or 8(a) concerns; and (3) Orders set aside for small business or 8(a) concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Offeror/Contractor agrees that in performance of the contract in the case of a contract for-- (1) Services (except construction). At least 50 percent of the cost of contract performance incurred for personnel shall be expended for employees of the concern. (2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies). The concern shall perform work for at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies, not including the cost of materials. (3) General construction. The concern will, perform at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, with its own employees. (4) Construction by special trade contractors. The concern will perform at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract, not including the cost of materials, with its own employees.

52.219-16
52.219-16 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999)
(a) "Failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan", as used in this clause, means a willful or intentional failure to perform in accordance with the requirements of the subcontracting plan approved under the clause in this contract entitled "Small Business Subcontracting Plan," or willful or intentional action to frustrate the plan. (b) Performance shall be measured by applying the percentage goals to the total actual subcontracting dollars or, if a commercial plan is involved, to the pro rata share of actual subcontracting dollars attributable to Government contracts covered by the commercial plan. If, at contract completion or, in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, the Contractor has failed to meet its subcontracting goals and the Contracting Officer decides in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan, established in accordance with the clause in this contract entitled "Small Business Subcontracting Plan," the Contractor shall pay the Government liquidated damages in an amount stated. The amount of probable damages attributable to the Contractor's failure to comply shall be an amount equal to the actual dollar amount by which the Contractor failed to achieve each subcontract goal. (c) Before the Contracting Officer makes a final decision that the Contractor has failed to make such good faith effort, the Contracting Officer shall give the Contractor written notice specifying the failure and permitting the Contractor to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made and to discuss the matter. Failure to respond to the notice may be taken as an admission that no valid explanation exists. If, after consideration of all the pertinent data, the Contracting Officer finds that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan, the Contracting Officer shall issue a final decision to that effect and require that the Contractor pay the Government liquidated damages as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause.

Page: 19 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(d) With respect to commercial plans, the Contracting Officer who approved the plan will perform the functions of the Contracting Officer under this clause on behalf of all agencies with contracts covered by the commercial plan. (e) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the clause in this contract entitled Disputes, from any final decision of the Contracting Officer. (f) Liquidated damages shall be in addition to any other remedies that the Government may have.

52.219-27
52.219-27 NOTICE OF SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011)
(a) Definition. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern -- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) "Service-disabled veteran" means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; and (3) Orders set aside for service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns. Offers received from concerns that are not service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns shall not be considered. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (d) Agreement. A service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern agrees that in the performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for -- (1) Services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern or employees of other service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (2) Supplies (other than acquisition from a nonmanufacturer of the supplies), at least 50 percent

Page: 20 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern or other service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (3) General construction, at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract performance incurred for personnel will be spent on the concern's employees or the employees of other service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; or (4) Construction by special trade contractors, at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract performance incurred for personnel will be spent on the concern's employees or the employees of other service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns. (e) A joint venture may be considered a service-disabled veteran owned small business concern if -- (1) At least one member of the joint venture is a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern, and makes the following representations: That it is a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern, and that it is a small business concern under the North American Industry Classification Systems (NAICS) code assigned to the procurement; (2) Each other concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement; and (3) The joint venture meets the requirements of paragraph 7 of the explanation of Affiliates in 19.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (4) The joint venture meets the requirements of 13 CFR 125.15(b) (f) Any service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern (nonmanufacturer) must meet the requirements in 19.102(f) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation to receive a benefit under this program.

52.219-28
52.219-28 POST­AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (APR 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause ­ Long-term contract means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options. However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority. Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (c) of this clause. Such a concern is "not dominant in its field of operation" when it does not exercise a controlling or major influence on a national basis in a kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of employees, financial resources, competitive status or position, ownership or control of materials, processes, patents, license agreements, facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity. (b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size status according to paragraph (e) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (g) of this clause, upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

Page: 21 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30 days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract. (3) For long-term contracts ­ (i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and (ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any option thereafter. (c) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at http://www.sba.gov/content/table-small-business-size-standards. (d) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing a product which it does not manufacture itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees. (e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the rerepresentation required by paragraph (b) of this clause by validating or updating all its representations in the Online Representations and Certifications Application and its data in the Central Contractor Registration, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation or update. (f) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause. (g) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in ORCA, or does not have a representation in ORCA for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed: The Contractor represents that it ______ is, ______ is not a small business concern under NAICS Code ______ assigned to contract number ______. [Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title]. ________________________________________________ ________________ Contractor Signature / Date _________________________________ ______________________________ Authorized Signer's Name / Title

52.219-29
52.219-29 NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (APR 2012)
(a) Definitions. "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means -- A small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the

Page: 22 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

WOSB Program. "WOSB Program Repository" means a secure, Web-based application that collects, stores, and disseminates documents to the contracting community and SBA, which verify the eligibility of a business concern for a contract to be awarded under the WOSB Program. (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for EDWOSB concerns; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for EDWOSB concerns; and (3) Orders set aside for EDWOSB concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from EDWOSB concerns. Offers received from concerns that are not EDWOSB concerns will not be considered. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to an EDWOSB concern. (3) The contracting officer will ensure that the apparent successful offeror has provided all required documents to the WOSB Program Repository. The contract will not be awarded until all required documents are received. (d) Agreement. An EDWOSB concern agrees that in the performance of the contract for -- (1) Services (except construction), the concern will perform at least 50 percent of the cost of the contract incurred for personnel with its own employees; (2) Supplies or products (other than procurement from a non-manufacturer in such supplies or products), the concern will perform at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies or products (not including the costs of materials); (3) General construction, the concern will perform at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract with its own employees (not including the costs of materials); and (4) Construction by special trade contractors, the concern will perform at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract with its own employees (not including the cost of materials). (e) Joint Venture. A joint venture may be considered an EDWOSB concern if -- (1) It meets the applicable size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, unless an exception to affiliation applies pursuant to 13 CFR 121.103(h)(3); (2) The EDWOSB participant of the joint venture is designated in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database and the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) as an EDWOSB concern; (3) The parties to the joint venture have entered into a written joint venture agreement that contains provisions -- (i) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture; (ii) Designating an EDWOSB concern as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and an employee of the managing venturer as the project manager responsible for the

Page: 23 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

performance of the contract; (iii) Stating that not less than 51 percent of the net profits earned by the joint venture will be distributed to the EDWOSB; (iv) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to contract performance, sources of labor, and negotiation of the EDWOSB contract; and (v) Requiring the final original records be retained by the managing venturer upon completion of the EDWOSB contract performed by the joint venture. (4) The joint venture performs the applicable percentage of work required in accordance with paragraph (d) above; and (5) The procuring activity executes the contract in the name of the EDWOSB or joint venture. (f) Nonmanufacturer. An EDWOSB concern that is a non-manufacturer, as defined in 13 CFR 121.406(b) or FAR 19.102(f), may submit an offer on an EDWOSB requirement with a NAICS code for supplies, if it meets the requirements under the non-manufacturer rule set forth in those regulations.

52.219-3
52.219-3 NOTICE OF HUBZONE SET-ASIDE OR SOLE SOURCE AWARD (NOV 2011)
(a) Definitions. See 13 CFR 125.6(e) for definitions of terms used in paragraph (c). (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for, or awarded on a sole source basis to, HUBZone small business concerns; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for HUBZone small business concerns; and (3) Orders set-aside for HUBZone small business concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from HUBZone small business concerns. Offers received from concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns will not be considered. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a HUBZone small business concern. (d) Agreement. A HUBZone small business concern agrees that in the performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for -- (1) Services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern or employees of other HUBZone small business concerns; (2) Supplies (other than acquisition from a nonmanufacturer of the supplies), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern or other HUBZone small business concerns;

Page: 24 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(3) General construction. (i) At least 15 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the HUBZone prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the HUBZone prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the HUBZone prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; and (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns; or (4) Construction by special trade contractors. (i) At least 25 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the HUBZone prime contractor's employees; (ii) At least 50 percent of the cost of the contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be spent on the HUBZone prime contractor's employees or on a combination of the HUBZone prime contractor's employees and employees of HUBZone small business concern subcontractors; (iii) No more than 50 percent of the cost of contract performance to be incurred for personnel will be subcontracted to concerns that are not HUBZone small business concerns. (e) A HUBZone joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, the applicable percentage specified in paragraph (d) of this clause will be performed by the aggregate of the HUBZone small business participants. (f) (1) When the total value of the contract exceeds $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer agrees to furnish in performing this contract only end items manufactured or produced by HUBZone small business concern manufacturers. (2) When the total value of the contract is equal to or less than $25,000, a HUBZone small business concern nonmanufacturer may provide end items manufactured by other than a HUBZone small business concern manufacturer provided the end items are produced or manufactured in the United States. (3) Paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section do not apply in connection with construction or service contracts. (g) Notice. The HUBZone small business offeror acknowledges that a prospective HUBZone awardee must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract. The HUBZone offeror shall provide the Contracting Officer a copy of the notice required by 13 CFR 126.501 if material changes occur before contract award that could affect its HUBZone eligibility. If the apparently successful HUBZone offeror is not a HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful HUBZone small business concern or other offeror.

52.219-30
52.219-30 NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM (APR 2012)

Page: 25 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(a) Definitions. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. "WOSB Program Repository" means a secure, Web-based application that collects, stores, and disseminates documents to the contracting community and SBA, which verify the eligibility of a business concern for a contract to be awarded under the WOSB Program. (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been set aside or reserved for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program; (2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program; and (3) Orders set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program, under multiple-award contracts as described in8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program. Offers received from concerns that are not WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB program shall not be considered. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. (3) The Contracting Officer will ensure that the apparent successful offeror has provided the required documents to the WOSB Program Repository. The contract shall not be awarded until all required documents are received. (d) Agreement. A WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program agrees that in the performance of the contract for -- (1) Services (except construction), the concern will perform at least 50 percent of the cost of the contract incurred for personnel with its own employees; (2) Supplies or products (other than procurement from a non-manufacturer in such supplies or products), the concern will perform at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies or products (not including the costs of materials); (3) General construction, the concern will perform at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract with its own employees (not including the costs of materials); and (4) Construction by special trade contractors, the concern will perform at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract with its own employees (not including cost of materials). (e) Joint Venture. A joint venture may be considered a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program if -- (1) It meets the applicable size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, unless an exception to affiliation applies pursuant to 13 CFR 121.103(h)(3); (2) The WOSB participant of the joint venture is designated in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database and the Online Representations and Certifications Application

Page: 26 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(ORCA) as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program; (3) The parties to the joint venture have entered into a written joint venture agreement that contains provisions -- (i) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture; (ii) Designating a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and an employee of the managing venturer as the project manager responsible for the performance of the contract; (iii) Stating that not less than 51 percent of the net profits earned by the joint venture will be distributed to the WOSB; (iv) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to contract performance, sources of labor, and negotiation of the WOSB contract; and (v) Requiring the final original records be retained by the managing venturer upon completion of the WOSB contract performed by the joint venture. (4) The joint venture must perform the applicable percentage of work required in accordance with paragraph (d) above; and (5) The procuring activity executes the contract in the name of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program or joint venture. (f) Nonmanufacturer. A WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program that is a non-manufacturer, as defined in 13 CFR 121.406(b) or FAR 19.102(f), may submit an offer on a WOSB requirement with a NAICS code for supplies, if it meets the requirements under the non-manufacturer rule set forth in those regulations.

52.219-6
52.219-6 NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011)
(a) Definition. "Small business concern," as used in this clause, means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the size standards in this solicitation. (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to -- (1) Contracts that have been totally set aside or reserved for small business concerns; and (2) Orders set aside for small business concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). (c) General. (1) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns. Offers received from concerns that are not small business concerns shall be considered nonresponsive and will be rejected. (2) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to a small business concern. (d) Agreement.

Page: 27 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts.

52.219-8
52.219-8 UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011) (a) It is the policy of the United States that small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns shall have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in performing contracts let by any Federal agency, including contracts and subcontracts for subsystems, assemblies, components, and related services for major systems. It is further the policy of the United States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their subcontracts withsmall business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns. (b) The Contractor hereby agrees to carry out this policy in the awarding of subcontracts to the fullest extent consistent with efficient contract performance. The Contractor further agrees to cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be conducted by the United States Small Business Administration or the awarding agency of the United States as may be necessary to determine the extent of the Contractor's compliance with this clause. (c) Definitions. As used in this contract -- HUBZone small business concern means a small business concern that appears on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern" -- (1) Means a small business concern -- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a small business as defined pursuant to Section 3 of the Small Business Act and relevant regulations promulgated pursuant thereto. "Small disadvantaged business concern" means a small business concern that represents, as part of its offer that -- (1) (i) It has received certification as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR part 124, Subpart B; (ii) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification;

Page: 28 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(iii) Where the concern is owned by one or more individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (iv) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, or (2) It represents in writing that it qualifies as a small disadvantaged business (SDB) for any Federal subcontracting program, and believes in good faith that it is owned and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and meets the SDB eligibility criteria of 13 CFR 124.1002. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women, or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) (1) Contractors acting in good faith may rely on written representations by their subcontractors regarding their status as a small business concern, a veteran-owned small business concern, a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern, a small disadvantaged business concern, or a women-owned small business concern. (2) The Contractor shall confirm that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone small business concern is certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern by accessing the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database or by contacting the SBA. Options for contacting the SBA include -- (i) HUBZone small business database search application Web page at http://dsbs.sba.gov/dsbs/search/dsp_searchhubzone.cfm; or http://www.sba.gov/hubzone; (ii) In writing to the Director/HUB, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington DC 20416; or (iii) The SBA HUBZone Help Desk at hubzone@sba.gov.

52.219-9
52.219-9 SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011) (ALTERNATE II ­ OCT 2001)
(a) This clause does not apply to small business concerns. (b) Definitions. As used in this clause -- Alaska Native Corporation (ANC) means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban

Page: 29 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.) and which is considered a minority and economically disadvantaged concern under the criteria at 43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(1). This definition also includes ANC direct and indirect subsidiary corporations, joint ventures, and partnerships that meet the requirements of 43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(2). Commercial item means a product or service that satisfies the definition of commercial item in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Commercial plan means a subcontracting plan (including goals) that covers the offeror's fiscal year and that applies to the entire production of commercial items sold by either the entire company or a portion thereof (e.g., division, plant, or product line). Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) means the Governmentwide, electronic, web-based system for small business subcontracting program reporting. The eSRS is located at http://www.esrs.gov. Indian tribe means any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community, including native villages and native groups (including corporations organized by Kenai, Juneau, Sitka, and Kodiak) as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.A. 1601 et seq.), that is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1452(c). This definition also includes Indian-owned economic enterprises that meet the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 1452(e). Individual contract plan means a subcontracting plan that covers the entire contract period (including option periods), applies to a specific contract, and has goals that are based on the offeror's planned subcontracting in support of the specific contract, except that indirect costs incurred for common or joint purposes may be allocated on a prorated basis to the contract. Master plan means a subcontracting plan that contains all the required elements of an individual contract plan, except goals, and may be incorporated into individual contract plans, provided the master plan has been approved. Subcontract means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime Contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for performance of the contract or subcontract. (c) Proposals submitted in response to this solicitation shall include a subcontracting plan that separately addresses subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns. If the offeror is submitting an individual contract plan, the plan must separately address subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns, with a separate part for the basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any). The plan shall be included in and made a part of the resultant contract. The subcontracting plan shall be negotiated within the time specified by the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate a subcontracting plan shall make the offeror ineligible for award of a contract. (d) The offeror's subcontracting plan shall include the following: (1) Goals, expressed in terms of percentages of total planned subcontracting dollars, for the use of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors. The offeror shall include all subcontracts that contribute to contract performance, and may include a proportionate share of products and services that are normally allocated as indirect costs. In accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1626:

Page: 30 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) A statement of -- (i) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted for an individual contract plan; or the offeror's total projected sales, expressed in dollars, and the total value of projected subcontracts to support the sales for a commercial plan; (ii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to small business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes); (iii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to veteran-owned small business concerns; (iv) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to service-disabled veteran-owned small business; (v) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to HUBZone small business concerns; (vi) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes); and (vii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to women-owned small business concerns. (3) A description of the principal types of supplies and services to be subcontracted, and an identification of the types planned for subcontracting to -- (i) Small business concerns; (ii) Veteran-owned small business concerns; (iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (iv) HUBZone small business concerns; (v) Small disadvantaged business concerns; and (vi) Women-owned small business concerns. (4) A description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals in paragraph (d)(1) of this clause. (5) A description of the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes (e.g., existing company source lists, the Central Contractor Registration database (CCR), veterans service organizations, the National Minority Purchasing Council Vendor Information Service, the Research and Information Division of the Minority Business Development Agency in the Department of Commerce, or small, HUBZone, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business trade associations). A firm may rely on the information contained in CCR as an accurate representation of a concern's size and ownership characteristics for the purposes of maintaining a small, veteran-owned small, service-disabled veteran-owned small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business source list. Use of CCR as its source list does not relieve a firm of its responsibilities (e.g., outreach, assistance, counseling, or publicizing subcontracting opportunities) in this clause. (6) A statement as to whether or not the offeror included indirect costs in establishing subcontracting goals, and a description of the method used to determine the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with -- (i) Small business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes); (ii) Veteran-owned small business concerns; (iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (iv) HUBZone small business concerns; (v) Small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes); and (vi) Women-owned small business concerns.

Page: 31 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(7) The name of the individual employed by the offeror who will administer the offeror's subcontracting program, and a description of the duties of the individual. (8) A description of the efforts the offeror will make to assure that small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged and women-owned small business concerns have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts. (9) Assurances that the offeror will include the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization of Small Business Concerns" in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and that the offeror will require all subcontractors (except small business concerns) that receive subcontracts in excess of $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility with further subcontracting possibilities) to adopt a subcontracting plan that complies with the requirements of this clause. (10) Assurances that the offeror will -- (i) Cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required; (ii) Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the extent of compliance by the offeror with the subcontracting plan; (iii) Submit the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) and/or the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR), in accordance with paragraph (l) of this clause using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at http://www.esrs.gov. The reports shall provide information on subcontract awards to small business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes that are not small businesses), veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes that have not been certified by the Small Business Administration as small disadvantaged businesses), women-owned small business concerns, and Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions. Reporting shall be in accordance with this clause, or as provided in agency regulations; (iv) Ensure that its subcontractors with subcontracting plans agree to submit the ISR and/or the SSR using eSRS; (v) Provide its prime contract number, its DUNS number, and the e-mail address of the offeror's official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to all first-tier subcontractors with subcontracting plans so they can enter this information into the eSRS when submitting their ISRs; and (vi) Require that each subcontractor with a subcontracting plan provide the prime contract number, its own DUNS number, and the e-mail address of the subcontractor's official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to its subcontractors with subcontracting plans. (11) A description of the types of records that will be maintained concerning procedures that have been adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the plan, including establishing source lists; and a description of the offeror's efforts to locate small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns and award subcontracts to them. The records shall include at least the following (on a plant-wide or company-wide basis, unless otherwise indicated): (i) Source lists (e.g., CCR), guides, and other data that identify small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business

Page: 32 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

concerns. (ii) Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business concerns. (iii) Records on each subcontract solicitation resulting in an award of more than $150,000, indicating -- (A) Whether small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; (B) Whether veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; (C) Whether service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; (D) Whether HUBZone small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; (E) Whether small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; (F) Whether women-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; and (G) If applicable, the reason award was not made to a small business concern. (iv) Records of any outreach efforts to contact -- (A) Trade associations; (B) Business development organizations; (C) Conferences and trade fairs to locate small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business sources; AND (D) Veterans service organizations. (v) Records of internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through -- (A) Workshops, seminars, training, etc.; and (B) Monitoring performance to evaluate compliance with the program's requirements. (vi) On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support award data submitted by the offeror to the Government, including the name, address, and business size of each subcontractor. Contractors having commercial plans need not comply with this requirement. (e) In order to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the following functions: (1) Assist small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns by arranging solicitations, time for the preparation of bids, quantities, specifications, and delivery schedules so as to facilitate the participation by such concerns. Where the Contractor's lists of potential small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business subcontractors are excessively long, reasonable effort shall be made to give all such small business concerns an opportunity to compete over a period of time. (2) Provide adequate and timely consideration of the potentialities of small business,

Page: 33 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns in all "make-or-buy" decisions. (3) Counsel and discuss subcontracting opportunities with representatives of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business firms. (4) Confirm that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone small business concern is identified as a certified HUBZone small business concern by accessing the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database or by contacting SBA. (5) Provide notice to subcontractors concerning penalties and remedies for misrepresentations of business status as small, veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business for the purpose of obtaining a subcontract that is to be included as part or all of a goal contained in the Contractor's subcontracting plan. (6) For all competitive subcontracts over the simplified acquisition threshold in which a small business concern received a small business preference, upon determination of the successful subcontract offeror, the Contractor must inform each unsuccessful small business subcontract offeror in writing of the name and location of the apparent successful offeror prior to award of the contract. (f) A master plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains all the elements required by paragraph (d) of this clause, except goals, may be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting plan required of the offeror by this clause; provided -- (1) the master plan has been approved, (2) the offeror ensures that the master plan is updated as necessary and provides copies of the approved master plan, including evidence of its approval, to the Contracting Officer, and (3) goals and any deviations from the master plan deemed necessary by the Contracting Officer to satisfy the requirements of this contract are set forth in the individual subcontracting plan. (g) A commercial plan is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial items. The commercial plan shall relate to the offeror's planned subcontracting generally, for both commercial and Government business, rather than solely to the Government contract. Once the Contractor's commercial plan has been approved, the Government will not require another subcontracting plan from the same Contractor while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service being provided by the Contractor continues to meet the definition of a commercial item. A Contractor with a commercial plan shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in paragraph (d)(10) of this clause by submitting one SSR in eSRS for all contracts covered by its commercial plan. This report shall be acknowledged or rejected in eSRS by the Contracting Officer who approved the plan. This report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the Government's fiscal year. (h) Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract. (i) A contract may have no more than one plan. When a modification meets the criteria in 19.702 for a plan, or an option is exercised, the goals associated with the modification or option shall be added to those in the existing subcontract plan. (j) Subcontracting plans are not required from subcontractors when the prime contract contains the clause at 52.212­5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Items, or when the subcontractor provides a commercial item subject to the clause at 52.244­6, Subcontracts for Commercial Items, under a prime contract.

Page: 34 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(k) The failure of the Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with -- (1) the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization of Small Business Concerns," or (2) an approved plan required by this clause, shall be a material breach of the contract. (l) The Contractor shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at http://www.esrs.gov. Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an affiliate of the prime Contractor or subcontractor are not included in these reports. Subcontract award data reported by prime Contractors and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States or its outlying areas should be included in these reports with the exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State Department or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed outside the United States and its outlying areas. (1) ISR. This report is not required for commercial plans. The report is required for each contract containing an individual subcontract plan. (i) The report shall be submitted semiannually during contract performance for the periods ending March 31 and September 30. A report is also required for each contract within 30 days of contract completion. Reports are due 30 days after the close of each reporting period, unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer. Reports are required when due, regardless of whether there has been any subcontracting activity since the inception of the contract or the previous reporting period. (ii) When a subcontracting plan contains separate goals for the basic contract and each option, as prescribed by FAR 19.704(c), the dollar goal inserted on this report shall be the sum of the base period through the current option; for example, for a report submitted after the second option is exercised, the dollar goal would be the sum of the goals for the basic contract, the first option, and the second option. (iii) The authority to acknowledge receipt or reject the ISR resides -- (A) In the case of the prime Contractor, with the Contracting Officer; and (B) In the case of a subcontract with a subcontracting plan, with the entity that awarded the subcontract. (2) SSR. (i) Reports submitted under individual contract plans -- (A) This report encompasses all subcontracting under prime contracts and subcontracts with the awarding agency, regardless of the dollar value of the subcontracts. (B) The report may be submitted on a corporate, company or subdivision (e.g. plant or division operating as a separate profit center) basis, unless otherwise directed by the agency. (C) If a prime Contractor and/or subcontractor is performing work for more than one executive agency, a separate report shall be submitted to each executive agency covering only that agency's contracts, provided at least one of that agency's contracts is over $650,000 (over $1.5 million for construction of a public facility) and contains a subcontracting plan. For DoD, a consolidated report shall be submitted for all contracts awarded by military departments/ agencies and/or subcontracts awarded by DoD prime Contractors. However, for construction and related maintenance and repair, a separate report shall be submitted for each DoD component. (D) For DoD and NASA, the report shall be submitted semi-annually for the six

Page: 35 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

months ending March 31 and the twelve months ending September 30. For civilian agencies, except NASA, it shall be submitted annually for the twelve month period ending September 30. Reports are due 30 days after the close of each reporting period. (E) Subcontract awards that are related to work for more than one executive agency shall be appropriately allocated. (F) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs in eSRS, including SSRs submitted by subcontractors with subcontracting plans, resides with the Government agency awarding the prime contracts unless stated otherwise in the contract. (ii) Reports submitted under a commercial plan -- (A) The report shall include all subcontract awards under the commercial plan in effect during the Government's fiscal year. (B) The report shall be submitted annually, within thirty days after the end of the Government's fiscal year. (C) If a Contractor has a commercial plan and is performing work for more than one executive agency, the Contractor shall specify the percentage of dollars attributable to each agency from which contracts for commercial items were received. (D) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the Contracting Officer who approved the commercial plan. (iii) All reports submitted at the close of each fiscal year (both individual and commercial plans) shall include a Year-End Supplementary Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses. The report shall include subcontract awards, in whole dollars, to small disadvantaged business concerns by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsector. If the data are not available when the year-end SSR is submitted, the prime Contractor and/or subcontractor shall submit the Year-End Supplementary Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses within 90 days of submitting the year-end SSR. For a commercial plan, the Contractor may obtain from each of its subcontractors a predominant NAICS Industry Subsector and report all awards to that subcontractor under its predominant NAICS Industry Subsector.

52.222-1
52.222-1 NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES (FEB 1997)
If the Contractor has knowledge that any actual or potential labor dispute is delaying or threatens to delay the timely performance of this contract, the Contractor shall immediately give notice, including all relevant information, to the Contracting Officer.

52.222-19
52.222-19 CHILD LABOR--COOPERATION WITH AUTHORITIES AND REMEDIES (APR 2012)
(a) Applicability. This clause does not apply to the extent that the Contractor is supplying end products mined, produced, or manufactured in -- (1) Canada, and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $25,000 or more; (2) Israel, and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $50,000 or more; (3) Mexico, and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $77,494 or more; or

Page: 36 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(4) Armenia, Aruba, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, or the United Kingdom and the anticipated value of the acquisition is $202,000 or more. (b) Cooperation with Authorities. To enforce the laws prohibiting the manufacture or importation of products mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, authorized officials may need to conduct investigations to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any product furnished under this contract. If the solicitation includes the provision 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products, or the equivalent at 52.212-3(i), the Contractor agrees to cooperate fully with authorized officials of the contracting agency, the Department of the Treasury, or the Department of Justice by providing reasonable access to records, documents, persons, or premises upon reasonable request by the authorized officials. (c) Violations. The Government may impose remedies set forth in paragraph (d) for the following violations: (1) The Contractor has submitted a false certification regarding knowledge of the use of forced or indentured child labor for listed end products. (2) The Contractor has failed to cooperate, if required, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this clause, with an investigation of the use of forced or indentured child labor by an Inspector General, Attorney General, or the Secretary of the Treasury. (3) The Contractor uses forced or indentured child labor in its mining, production, or manufacturing processes. (4) The Contractor has furnished under the contract end products or components that have been mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part by forced or indentured child labor. (The Government will not pursue remedies at paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this clause unless sufficient evidence indicates that the Contractor knew of the violation.) (d) Remedies. (1) The Contracting Officer may terminate the contract. (2) The suspending official may suspend the Contractor in accordance with procedures in FAR Subpart 9.4. (3) The debarring official may debar the Contractor for a period not to exceed 3 years in accordance with the procedures in FAR Subpart 9.4.

52.222-21
52.222-21 PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999)
(a) Segregated facilities, as used in this clause, means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms and wash rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees, that are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin because of written or oral policies or employee custom. The term does not include separate or single-user rest rooms or necessary dressing or sleeping areas provided to assure privacy between the sexes. (b) The Contractor agrees that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees

Page: 37 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this clause is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in this contract. (c) The Contractor shall include this clause in every subcontract and purchase order that is subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this contract.

52.222-24
52.222-24 PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE REVIEW (FEB 1999)
If a contract in the amount of $10 million or more will result from this solicitation, the prospective Contractor and its known first-tier subcontractors with anticipated subcontracts of $10 million or more shall be subject to a preaward compliance evaluation by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), unless, within the preceding 24 months, OFCCP has conducted an evaluation and found the prospective Contractor and subcontractors to be in compliance with Executive Order 11246.

52.222-26
52.222-26 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007)
(a) Definition. "United States," as used in this clause, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Wake Island. (b) (1) If, during any 12-month period (including the 12 months preceding the award of this contract), the Contractor has been or is awarded nonexempt Federal contracts and/or subcontracts that have an aggregate value in excess of $10,000, the Contractor shall comply with this clause, except for work performed outside the United States by employees who were not recruited within the United States. Upon request, the Contractor shall provide information necessary to determine the applicability of this clause. (2) If the Contractor is a religious corporation, association, educational institution, or society, the requirements of this clause do not apply with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on of the Contractor's activities (41 CFR 60-1.5). (c) (1) The Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. However, it shall not be a violation of this clause for the Contractor to extend a publicly announced preference in employment to Indians living on or near an Indian reservation, in connection with employment opportunities on or near an Indian reservation, as permitted by 41 CFR 60-1.5.
(2) The Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. This shall include, but not be limited to --(i) Employment;

(ii) Upgrading; (iii) Demotion; (iv) Transfer; (v) Recruitment or recruitment advertising; (vi) Layoff or termination;

Page: 38 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(vii) Rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and (viii) Selection for training, including apprenticeship. (3) The Contractor shall post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment the notices to be provided by the Contracting Officer that explain this clause. (4) The Contractor shall, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. (5) The Contractor shall send, to each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, the notice to be provided by the Contracting Officer advising the labor union or workers' representative of the Contractor's commitments under this clause, and post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. (6) The Contractor shall comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. (7) The Contractor shall furnish to the contracting agency all information required by Executive Order 11246, as amended, and by the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. The Contractor shall also file Standard Form 100 (EEO-1), or any successor form, as prescribed in 41 CFR part 60-1. Unless the Contractor has filed within the 12 months preceding the date of contract award, the Contractor shall, within 30 days after contract award, apply to either the regional Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) or the local office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for the necessary forms. (8) The Contractor shall permit access to its premises, during normal business hours, by the contracting agency or the OFCCP for the purpose of conducting on-site compliance evaluations and complaint investigations. The Contractor shall permit the Government to inspect and copy any books, accounts, records (including computerized records), and other material that may be relevant to the matter under investigation and pertinent to compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and rules and regulations that implement the Executive Order. (9) If the OFCCP determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with this clause or any rule, regulation, or order of the Secretary of Labor, this contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the Contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts, under the procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246, as amended. In addition, sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked against the Contractor as provided in Executive Order 11246, as amended; in the rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor; or as otherwise provided by law. (10) The Contractor shall include the terms and conditions of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order that is not exempted by the rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued under Executive Order 11246, as amended, so that these terms and conditions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. (11) The Contractor shall take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the Contracting Officer may direct as a means of enforcing these terms and conditions, including sanctions for noncompliance; provided, that if the Contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of any direction, the Contractor may request the United States to enter into the litigation to protect the interests of the United States. (d) Notwithstanding any other clause in this contract, disputes relative to this clause will be governed by the procedures in 41 CFR 60-1.1.

Page: 39 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.222-3
52.222-3 CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003)
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not employ in the performance of this contract any person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court of a State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands. (b) The Contractor is not prohibited from employing persons-- (1) On parole or probation to work at paid employment during the term of their sentence; (2) Who have been pardoned or who have served their terms; or (3) Confined for violation of the laws of any of the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands who are authorized to work at paid employment in the community under the laws of such jurisdiction, if-- (i) The worker is paid or is in an approved work training program on a voluntary basis; (ii) Representatives of local union central bodies or similar labor union organizations have been consulted; (iii) Such paid employment will not result in the displacement of employed workers, or be applied in skills, crafts, or trades in which there is a surplus of available gainful labor in the locality, or impair existing contracts for services; (iv) The rates of pay and other conditions of employment will not be less than those paid or provided for work of a similar nature in the locality in which the work is being performed; and (v) The Attorney General of the United States has certified that the work-release laws or regulations of the jurisdiction involved are in conformity with the requirements of Executive Order 11755, as amended by Executive Orders 12608 and 12943.

52.222-35
52.222-35 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS (SEP 2010)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause -- All employment openings means all positions except executive and senior management, those positions that will be filled from within the Contractor's organization, and positions lasting 3 days or less. This term includes full-time employment, temporary employment of more than 3 days duration, and part-time employment. Armed Forces service medal veteran means any veteran who, while serving on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985 (61 FR 1209). Disabled veteran means -- (1) A veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service, who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or (2) A person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected

Page: 40 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

disability. Executive and senior management means -- (1) Any employee -- (i) Compensated on a salary basis at a rate of not less than $455 per week (or $380 per week, if employed in American Samoa by employers other than the Federal Government), exclusive of board, lodging or other facilities; (ii) Whose primary duty consists of the management of the enterprise in which the individual is employed or of a customarily recognized department or subdivision thereof; (iii) Who customarily and regularly directs the work of two or more other employees; and (iv) Who has the authority to hire or fire other employees or whose suggestions and recommendations as to the hiring or firing and as to the advancement and promotion or any other change of status of other employees will be given particular weight; or (2) Any employee who owns at least a bona fide 20-percent equity interest in the enterprise in which the employee is employed, regardless of whether the business is a corporate or other type of organization, and who is actively engaged in its management. Other protected veteran means a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service, during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense. Positions that will be filled from within the Contractor's organization means employment openings for which the Contractor will give no consideration to persons outside the Contractor's organization (including any affiliates, subsidiaries, and parent companies) and includes any openings the Contractor proposes to fill from regularly established "recall" lists. The exception does not apply to a particular opening once an employer decides to consider applicants outside of its organization. Qualified disabled veteran means a disabled veteran who has the ability to perform the essential functions of the employment positions with or without reasonable accommodation. Recently separated veteran means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service. (b) General. (1) The Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because the individual is a disabled veteran, recently separated veteran, other protected veterans, or Armed Forces service medal veteran, regarding any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified. The Contractor shall take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment, and otherwise treat qualified individuals, including qualified disabled veterans, without discrimination based upon their status as a disabled veteran, recently separated veteran, Armed Forces service medal veteran, and other protected veteran in all employment practices including the following: (i) Recruitment, advertising, and job application procedures. (ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff and rehiring. (iii) Rate of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation.

Page: 41 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists. (v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave. (vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the Contractor. (vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, and on-the-job training under 38 U.S.C. 3687, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training. (viii) Activities sponsored by the Contractor including social or recreational programs. (ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. (2) The Contractor shall comply with the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor issued under the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972 (the Act), as amended (38 U.S.C. 4211 and 4212). (3) The Department of Labor's regulations require contractors with 50 or more employees and a contract of $100,000 or more to have an affirmative action program for veterans. See 41 CFR part 60-300, subpart C. (c) Listing openings. (1) The Contractor shall immediately list all employment openings that exist at the time of the execution of this contract and those which occur during the performance of this contract, including those not generated by this contract, and including those occurring at an establishment of the Contractor other than the one where the contract is being performed, but excluding those of independently operated corporate affiliates, at an appropriate employment service delivery system where the opening occurs. Listing employment openings with the State workforce agency job bank or with the local employment service delivery system where the opening occurs shall satisfy the requirement to list jobs with the appropriate employment service delivery system. (2) The Contractor shall make the listing of employment openings with the appropriate employment service delivery system at least concurrently with using any other recruitment source or effort and shall involve the normal obligations of placing a bona fide job order, including accepting referrals of veterans and nonveterans. This listing of employment openings does not require hiring any particular job applicant or hiring from any particular group of job applicants and is not intended to relieve the Contractor from any requirements of Executive orders or regulations concerning nondiscrimination in employment. (3) Whenever the Contractor becomes contractually bound to the listing terms of this clause, it shall advise the State workforce agency in each State where it has establishments of the name and location of each hiring location in the State. As long as the Contractor is contractually bound to these terms and has so advised the State agency, it need not advise the State agency of subsequent contracts. The Contractor may advise the State agency when it is no longer bound by this contract clause. (d) Applicability. This clause does not apply to the listing of employment openings that occur and are filled outside the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Wake Island. (e) Postings. (1) The Contractor shall post employment notices in conspicuous places that are available to employees and applicants for employment.

Page: 42 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) The employment notices shall -- (i) State the rights of applicants and employees as well as the Contractor's obligation under the law to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified employees and applicants who are disabled veterans, recently separated veterans, Armed Forces service medal veterans, and other protected veterans; and (ii) Be in a form prescribed by the Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, and provided by or through the Contracting Officer. (3) The Contractor shall ensure that applicants or employees who are disabled veterans are informed of the contents of the notice (e.g., the Contractor may have the notice read to a visually disabled veteran, or may lower the posted notice so that it can be read by a person in a wheelchair). (4) The Contractor shall notify each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement, or other contract understanding, that the Contractor is bound by the terms of the Act and is committed to take affirmative action to employ, and advance in employment, qualified disabled veterans, recently separated veterans, other protected veterans, and Armed Forces service medal veterans. (f) Noncompliance. If the Contractor does not comply with the requirements of this clause, the Government may take appropriate actions under the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor. This includes implementing any sanctions imposed on a contractor by the Department of Labor for violations of this clause (52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans). These sanctions (see 41 CFR 60-300.66) may include -- (1) Withholding progress payments; (2) Termination or suspension of the contract; or (3) Debarment of the contractor. (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the terms of this clause in subcontracts of $100,000 or more unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor. The Contractor shall act as specified by the Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, to enforce the terms, including action for noncompliance.

52.222-36
52.222-36 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010)
(a) General. (1) Regarding any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified, the Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant because of physical or mental disability. The Contractor agrees to take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment, and otherwise treat qualified individuals with disabilities without discrimination based upon their physical or mental disability in all employment practices such as -- (i) Recruitment, advertising, and job application procedures; (ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff, and rehiring; (iii) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation;

Page: 43 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists; (v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave; (vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the Contractor; (vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeships, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training; (viii) Activities sponsored by the Contractor, including social or recreational programs; and (ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. (2) The Contractor agrees to comply with the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) issued under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 793) (the Act), as amended. (b) Postings. (1) The Contractor agrees to post employment notices stating -- (i) The Contractor's obligation under the law to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities; and (ii) The rights of applicants and employees. (2) These notices shall be posted in conspicuous places that are available to employees and applicants for employment. The Contractor shall ensure that applicants and employees with disabilities are informed of the contents of the notice (e.g., the Contractor may have the notice read to a visually disabled individual, or may lower the posted notice so that it might be read by a person in a wheelchair). The notices shall be in a form prescribed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract Compliance of the U.S. Department of Labor (Deputy Assistant Secretary) and shall be provided by or through the Contracting Officer. (3) The Contractor shall notify each labor union or representative of workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract understanding, that the Contractor is bound by the terms of Section 503 of the Act and is committed to take affirmative action to employ, and advance in employment, qualified individuals with physical or mental disabilities. (c) Noncompliance. If the Contractor does not comply with the requirements of this clause, appropriate actions may be taken under the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary issued pursuant to the Act. (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order in excess of $15,000 unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary. The Contractor shall act as specified by the Deputy Assistant Secretary to enforce the terms, including action for noncompliance.

52.222-37
52.222-37 EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON VETERANS (SEP 2010)

Page: 44 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause, "Armed Forces service medal veteran," "disabled veteran," "other protected veteran," and "recently separated veteran," have the meanings given in the Equal Opportunity for Veterans clause 52.222-35. (b) Unless the Contractor is a State or local government agency, the Contractor shall report at least annually, as required by the Secretary of Labor, on -- (1) The total number of employees in the contractor's workforce, by job category and hiring location, who are disabled veterans, other protected veterans, Armed Forces service medal veterans, and recently separated veterans. (2) The total number of new employees hired during the period covered by the report, and of the total, the number of disabled veterans, other protected veterans, Armed Forces service medal veterans, and recently separated veterans; and (3) The maximum number and minimum number of employees of the Contractor or subcontractor at each hiring location during the period covered by the report. (c) The Contractor shall report the above items by completing the Form VETS-100A, entitled "Federal Contractor Veterans' Employment Report (VETS-100A Report)." (d) The Contractor shall submit VETS-100A Reports no later than September 30 of each year. (e) The employment activity report required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this clause shall reflect total new hires, and maximum and minimum number of employees, during the most recent 12-month period preceding the ending date selected for the report. Contractors may select an ending date -- (1) As of the end of any pay period between July 1 and August 31 of the year the report is due; or (2) As of December 31, if the Contractor has prior written approval from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to do so for purposes of submitting the Employer Information Report EEO-1 (Standard Form 100). (f) The number of veterans reported must be based on data known to the contractor when completing the VETS-100A. The contractor's knowledge of veterans status may be obtained in a variety of ways, including an invitation to applicants to self-identify (in accordance with 41 CFR 60-300.42), voluntary self-disclosure by employees, or actual knowledge of veteran status by the contractor. This paragraph does not relieve an employer of liability for discrimination under 38 U.S.C. 4212. (g) The Contractor shall insert the terms of this clause in subcontracts of $100,000 or more unless exempted by rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor.

52.222-40
52.222-40 NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT (DEC 2010)
(a) During the term of this contract, the Contractor shall post an employee notice, of such size and in such form, and containing such content as prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in conspicuous places in and about its plants and offices where employees covered by the National Labor Relations Act engage in activities relating to the performance of the contract, including all places where notices to employees are customarily posted both physically and electronically, in the languages employees speak, in accordance with 29 CFR 471.2(d) and (f). (1) Physical posting of the employee notice shall be in conspicuous places in and about the

Page: 45 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Contractor's plants and offices so that the notice is prominent and readily seen by employees who are covered by the National Labor Relations Act and engage in activities related to the performance of the contract. (2) If the Contractor customarily posts notices to employees electronically, then the Contractor shall also post the required notice electronically by displaying prominently, on any Web site that is maintained by the Contractor and is customarily used for notices to employees about terms and conditions of employment, a link to the Department of Labor's Web site that contains the full text of the poster. The link to the Department's Web site, as referenced in (b)(3) of this section, must read, "Important Notice about Employee Rights to Organize and Bargain Collectively with Their Employers." (b) This required employee notice, printed by the Department of Labor, may be -- (1) Obtained from the Division of Interpretations and Standards, Office of Labor-Management Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-5609, Washington, DC 20210, (202) 693-0123, or from any field office of the Office of Labor-Management Standards or Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs; (2) Provided by the Federal contracting agency if requested; (3) Downloaded from the Office of Labor- Management Standards Web site at http://www.dol.gov/olms/regs/compliance/EO13496.htm; or (4) Reproduced and used as exact duplicate copies of the Department of Labor's official poster. (c) The required text of the employee notice referred to in this clause is located at Appendix A, Subpart A, 29 CFR Part 471. (d) The Contractor shall comply with all provisions of the employee notice and related rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. (e) In the event that the Contractor does not comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause, this contract may be terminated or suspended in whole or in part, and the Contractor may be suspended or debarred in accordance with 29 CFR 471.14 and subpart 9.4. Such other sanctions or remedies may be imposed as are provided by 29 CFR part 471, which implements Executive Order 13496 or as otherwise provided by law. (f) Subcontracts. (1) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in every subcontract that exceeds $10,000 and will be performed wholly or partially in the United States, unless exempted by the rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to section 3 of Executive Order 13496 of January 30, 2009, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor. (2) The Contractor shall not procure supplies or services in a way designed to avoid the applicability of Executive Order 13496 or this clause. (3) The Contractor shall take such action with respect to any such subcontract as may be directed by the Secretary of Labor as a means of enforcing such provisions, including the imposition of sanctions for noncompliance. (4) However, if the Contractor becomes involved in litigation with a subcontractor, or is threatened with such involvement, as a result of such direction, the Contractor may request the United States, through the Secretary of Labor, to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States.

Page: 46 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.222-42
52.222-42 STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)
In compliance with the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4), this clause identifies the classes of service employees expected to be employed under the contract and states the wages and fringe benefits payable to each if they were employed by the contracting agency subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C 5341 or 5332. This Statement is for Information Only: It Is Not a Wage Determination

Employee Class

Monetary Wage-Fringe Benefits

N/A

N/A

52.222-43
52.222-43 FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT--PRICE ADJUSTMENT (MULTIPLE YEAR AND OPTION CONTRACTS) (SEP 2009)
(a) This clause applies to both contracts subject to area prevailing wage determinations and contracts subject to collective bargaining agreements. (b) The Contractor warrants that the prices in this contract do not include any allowance for any contingency to cover increased costs for which adjustment is provided under this clause. (c) The wage determination, issued under the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended, (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.), by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract. If no such determination has been made applicable to this contract, then the Federal minimum wage as established by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 206) current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract. (d) The contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly labor rates will be adjusted to reflect the Contractor's actual increase or decrease in applicable wages and fringe benefits to the extent that the increase is made to comply with or the decrease is voluntarily made by the Contractor as a result of: (1) The Department of Labor wage determination applicable on the anniversary date of the multiple year contract, or at the beginning of the renewal option period. For example, the prior year wage determination required a minimum wage rate of $4.00 per hour. The Contractor chose to pay $4.10. The new wage determination increases the minimum rate to $4.50 per hour. Even if the Contractor voluntarily increases the rate to $4.75 per hour, the allowable price adjustment is $.40 per hour; (2) An increase or decrease wage determination otherwise applied to the contract by operation of law; or (3) An amendment to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 that is enacted after award of this contract, affects the minimum wage, and becomes applicable to this contract under law.

Page: 47 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(e) Any adjustment will be limited to increases or decreases in wages and fringe benefits as described in paragraph (d) of this clause, and the accompanying increases or decreases in social security and unemployment taxes and workers' compensation insurance, but shall not otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit. (f) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase claimed under this clause within 30 days after receiving a new wage determination unless this notification period is extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any decrease under this clause, but nothing in the clause shall preclude the Government from asserting a claim within the period permitted by law. The notice shall contain a statement of the amount claimed and the change in fixed hourly rates (if this is a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract), and any relevant supporting data, including payroll records, that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require. Upon agreement of the parties, the contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly rates shall be modified in writing. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on or determination of any such adjustment in its effective date. (g) The Contracting Officer or an authorized representative shall have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Contractor until the expiration of 3 years after final payment under the contract.

52.222-46
52.222-46 EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993)
(a) Recompetition of service contracts may in some cases result in lowering the compensation (salaries and fringe benefits) paid or furnished professional employees. This lowering can be detrimental in obtaining the quality of professional services needed for adequate contract performance. It is therefore in the Government's best interest that professional employees, as defined in 29 CFR 541, be properly and fairly compensated. As part of their proposals, offerors will submit a total compensation plan setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for the professional employees who will work under the contract. The Government will evaluate the plan to assure that it reflects a sound management approach and understanding of the contract requirements. This evaluation will include an assessment of the offeror's ability to provide uninterrupted high-quality work. The professional compensation proposed will be considered in terms of its impact upon recruiting and retention, its realism, and its consistency with a total plan for compensation. Supporting information will include data, such as recognized national and regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations, used in establishing the total compensation structure. (b) The compensation levels proposed should reflect a clear understanding of work to be performed and should indicate the capability of the proposed compensation structure to obtain and keep suitably qualified personnel to meet mission objectives. The salary rates or ranges must take into account differences in skills, the complexity of various disciplines, and professional job difficulty. Additionally, proposals envisioning compensation levels lower than those of predecessor contractors for the same work will be evaluated on the basis of maintaining program continuity, uninterrupted high-quality work, and availability of required competent professional service employees. Offerors are cautioned that lowered compensation for essentially the same professional work may indicate lack of sound management judgment and lack of understanding of the requirement. (c) The Government is concerned with the quality and stability of the work force to be employed on this contract. Professional compensation that is unrealistically low or not in reasonable relationship to the various job categories, since it may impair the Contractor's ability to attract and retain competent professional service employees, may be viewed as evidence of failure to comprehend the complexity of the contract requirements. (d) Failure to comply with these provisions may constitute sufficient cause to justify rejection of a proposal.

Page: 48 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.222-49
52.222-49 SERVICE CONTRACT ACT--PLACE OF PERFORMANCE UNKNOWN (MAY 1989)
(a) This contract is subject to the Service Contract Act, and the place of performance was unknown when the solicitation was issued. In addition to places or areas identified in wage determinations, if any, attached to the solicitation, wage determinations have also been requested for the following: SEE NOTE BELOW (insert places or areas). The Contracting Officer will request wage determinations for additional places or areas of performance if asked to do so in writing by 15 DAYS AFTER RECEIPT OF REQUEST (insert time and date). (b) Offerors who intend to perform in a place or area of performance for which a wage determination has not been attached or requested may nevertheless submit bids or proposals. However, a wage determination shall be requested and incorporated in the resultant contract retroactive to the date of contract award, and there shall be no adjustment in the contract price.

52.222-54
52.222-54 EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause ­ Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item ­ (1) Means any item of supply that is ­ (i) A commercial item (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition at 2.101); (ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and (iii) Offered to the Government, without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and (2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. App. 1702), such as agricultural products and petroleum products. Per 46 CFR 525.1(c)(2), "bulk cargo" means cargo that is loaded and carried in bulk onboard ship without mark or count, in a loose unpackaged form, having homogenous characteristics. Bulk cargo loaded into intermodal equipment, except LASH or Seabee barges, is subject to mark and count and, therefore, ceases to be bulk cargo. Employee assigned to the contract means an employee who was hired after November 6, 1986 (after November 27, 2009, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), who is directly performing work, in the United States, under a contract that is required to include the clause prescribed at 22.1803. An employee is not considered to be directly performing work under a contract if the employee ­ (1) Normally performs support work, such as indirect or overhead functions; and (2) Does not perform any substantial duties applicable to the contract. Subcontract means any contract, as defined in 2.101, entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. It includes but is not limited to purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders. Subcontractor means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime Contractor or another subcontractor.

Page: 49 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

United States, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(38), means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. (b) Enrollment and verification requirements. (1) If the Contractor is not enrolled as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify at time of contract award, the Contractor shall ­ (i) Enroll. Enroll as a Federal Contractor in the E-Verify program within 30 calendar days of contract award; (ii) Verify all new employees. Within 90 calendar days of enrollment in the E-Verify program, begin to use E-Verify to initiate verification of employment eligibility of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); and (iii) Verify employees assigned to the contract. For each employee assigned to the contract, initiate verification within 90 calendar days after date of enrollment or within 30 calendar days of the employee's assignment to the contract, whichever date is later (but see paragraph (b)(4) of this section). (2) If the Contractor is enrolled as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify at time of contract award, the Contractor shall use E-Verify to initiate verification of employment eligibility of ­ (i) All new employees. (A) Enrolled 90 calendar days or more. The Contractor shall initiate verification of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); or (B) Enrolled less than 90 calendar days. Within 90 calendar days after enrollment as a Federal Contractor in E-Verify, the Contractor shall initiate verification of all new hires of the Contractor, who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract, within 3 business days after the date of hire (but see paragraph (b)(3) of this section); or (ii) Employees assigned to the contract. For each employee assigned to the contract, the Contractor shall initiate verification within 90 calendar days after date of contract award or within 30 days after assignment to the contract, whichever date is later (but see paragraph (b)(4) of this section). (3) If the Contractor is an institution of higher education (as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a)); a State or local government or the government of a Federally recognized Indian tribe; or a surety performing under a takeover agreement entered into with a Federal agency pursuant to a performance bond, the Contractor may choose to verify only employees assigned to the contract, whether existing employees or new hires. The Contractor shall follow the applicable verification requirements at (b)(1) or (b)(2), respectively, except that any requirement for verification of new employees applies only to new employees assigned to the contract. (4) Option to verify employment eligibility of all employees. The Contractor may elect to verify all existing employees hired after November 6, 1986 (after November 27, 2009, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), rather than just those employees assigned to the contract. The Contractor shall initiate verification for each existing employee working in the United States who was hired after November 6, 1986 (after November 27, 2009, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), within 180 calendar days of ­

Page: 50 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(i) Enrollment in the E-Verify program; or (ii) Notification to E-Verify Operations of the Contractor's decision to exercise this option, using the contact information provided in the E-Verify program Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). (5) The Contractor shall comply, for the period of performance of this contract, with the requirements of the E-Verify program MOU. (i) The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or the Social Security Administration (SSA) may terminate the Contractor's MOU and deny access to the E-Verify system in accordance with the terms of the MOU. In such case, the Contractor will be referred to a suspension or debarment official. (ii) During the period between termination of the MOU and a decision by the suspension or debarment official whether to suspend or debar, the Contractor is excused from its obligations under paragraph (b) of this clause. If the suspension or debarment official determines not to suspend or debar the Contractor, then the Contractor must reenroll in E-Verify. (c) Web site. Information on registration for and use of the E-Verify program can be obtained via the Internet at the Department of Homeland Security Web site: http://www.dhs.gov/E-Verify. (d) Individuals previously verified. The Contractor is not required by this clause to perform additional employment verification using E-Verify for any employee ­ (1) Whose employment eligibility was previously verified by the Contractor through the E-Verify program; (2) Who has been granted and holds an active U.S. Government security clearance for access to confidential, secret, or top secret information in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual; or (3) Who has undergone a completed background investigation and been issued credentials pursuant to Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12, Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors. (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the requirements of this clause, including this paragraph (e) (appropriately modified for identification of the parties), in each subcontract that ­ (1) Is for ­ (i) Commercial or noncommercial services (except for commercial services that are part of the purchase of a COTS item (or an item that would be a COTS item, but for minor modifications), performed by the COTS provider, and are normally provided for that COTS item); or (ii) Construction; (2) Has a value of more than $3,000; and (3) Includes work performed in the United States.

52.222-7
52.222-7 Withholding of Funds (Feb 1988)
The Contracting Officer shall, upon his or her own action or upon written request of an authorized representative of the Department of Labor, withhold or cause to be withheld from the Contractor under this

Page: 51 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

contract or any other Federal contract with the same Prime Contractor, or any other federally assisted contract subject to Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements, which is held by the same Prime Contractor, so much of the accrued payments or advances as may be considered necessary to pay laborers and mechanics, including apprentices, trainees, and helpers, employed by the Contractor or any subcontractor the full amount of wages required by the contract. In the event of failure to pay any laborer or mechanic, including any apprentice, trainee, or helper, employed or working on the site of the work, all or part of the wages required by the contract, the Contracting Officer may, after written notice to the Contractor, take such action as may be necessary to cause the suspension of any further payment, advance, or guarantee of funds until such violations have ceased.

52.222-8
52.222-8 PAYROLLS AND BASIC RECORDS (JUN 2010)
(a) Payrolls and basic records relating thereto shall be maintained by the Contractor during the course of the work and preserved for a period of 3 years thereafter for all laborers and mechanics working at the site of the work. Such records shall contain the name, address, and social security number of each such worker, his or her correct classification, hourly rates of wages paid (including rates of contributions or costs anticipated for bona fide fringe benefits or cash equivalents thereof of the types described in section 1(b)(2)(B) of the Davis-Bacon Act), daily and weekly number of hours worked, deductions made, and actual wages paid. Whenever the Secretary of Labor has found, under paragraph (d) of the clause entitled Davis-Bacon Act, that the wages of any laborer or mechanic include the amount of any costs reasonably anticipated in providing benefits under a plan or program described in section 1(b)(2)(B) of the Davis-Bacon Act, the Contractor shall maintain records which show that the commitment to provide such benefits is enforceable, that the plan or program is financially responsible, and that the plan or program has been communicated in writing to the laborers or mechanics affected, and records which show the costs anticipated or the actual cost incurred in providing such benefits. Contractors employing apprentices or trainees under approved programs shall maintain written evidence of the registration of apprenticeship programs and certification of trainee programs, the registration of the apprentices and trainees, and the ratios and wage rates prescribed in the applicable programs. (b) (1) The Contractor shall submit weekly for each week in which any contract work is performed a copy of all payrolls to the Contracting Officer. The payrolls submitted shall set out accurately and completely all of the information required to be maintained under paragraph(a) of this clause, except that full social security numbers and home addresses shall not be included on weekly transmittals. Instead the payrolls shall only need to include an individually identifying number for each employee (e.g., the last four digits of the employee's social security number). The required weekly payroll information may be submitted in any form desired. Optional Form WH­347 is available for this purpose and may be obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor Wage and Hour Division website at http://www.dol.gov/whd/forms/wh347.pdf. The Prime Contractor is responsible for the submission of copies of payrolls by all subcontractors. Contractors and subcontractors shall maintain the full social security number and current address of each covered worker, and shall provide them upon request to the Contracting Officer, the Contractor, or the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor for purposes of an investigation or audit of compliance with prevailing wage requirements. It is not a violation of this section for a Prime Contractor to require a subcontractor to provide addresses and social security numbers to the Prime Contractor for its own records, without weekly submission to the Contracting Officer. Superintendent of Documents U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, DC 20402 The Prime Contractor is responsible for the submission of copies of payrolls by all subcontractors. (2) Each payroll submitted shall be accompanied by a "Statement of Compliance," signed by the Contractor or subcontractor or his or her agent who pays or supervises the payment of the persons

Page: 52 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

employed under the contract and shall certify -- (i) That the payroll for the payroll period contains the information required to be maintained under paragraph (a) of this clause and that such information is correct and complete; (ii) That each laborer or mechanic (including each helper, apprentice, and trainee) employed on the contract during the payroll period has been paid the full weekly wages earned, without rebate, either directly or indirectly, and that no deductions have been made either directly or indirectly from the full wages earned, other than permissible deductions as set forth in the Regulations, 29 CFR Part 3; and (iii) That each laborer or mechanic has been paid not less than the applicable wage rates and fringe benefits or cash equivalents for the classification of work performed, as specified in the applicable wage determination incorporated into the contract. (3) The weekly submission of a properly executed certification set forth on the reverse side of Optional Form WH-347 shall satisfy the requirement for submission of the "Statement of Compliance" required by paragraph (b)(2) of this clause. (4) The falsification of any of the certifications in this clause may subject the Contractor or subcontractor to civil or criminal prosecution under Section 1001 of Title 18 and Section 3729 of Title 31 of the United States Code. (c) The Contractor or subcontractor shall make the records required under paragraph (a) of this clause available for inspection, copying, or transcription by the Contracting Officer or authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor. The Contractor or subcontractor shall permit the Contracting Officer or representatives of the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor to interview employees during working hours on the job. If the Contractor or subcontractor fails to submit required records or to make them available, the Contracting Officer may, after written notice to the Contractor, take such action as may be necessary to cause the suspension of any further payment. Furthermore, failure to submit the required records upon request or to make such records available may be grounds for debarment action pursuant to 29 CFR 5.12.

52.222-9
52.222-9 Apprentices and Trainees (Jul 2005)
(a) Apprentices. (1) An apprentice will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work performed when employed-- (i) Pursuant to and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS) or with a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the OATELS; or (ii) In the first 90 days of probationary employment as an apprentice in such an apprenticeship program, even though not individually registered in the program, if certified by the OATELS or a State Apprenticeship Agency (where appropriate) to be eligible for probationary employment as an apprentice. (2) The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen on the job site in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the Contractor as to the entire work force under the registered program. (3) Any worker listed on a payroll at an apprentice wage rate, who is not registered or otherwise

Page: 53 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

employed as stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause, shall be paid not less than the applicable wage determination for the classification of work actually performed. In addition, any apprentice performing work on the job site in excess of the ratio permitted under the registered program shall be paid not less than the applicable wage rate on the wage determination for the work actually performed. (4) Where a Contractor is performing construction on a project in a locality other than that in which its program is registered, the ratios and wage rates (expressed in percentages of the journeyman's hourly rate) specified in the Contractor's or subcontractor's registered program shall be observed. Every apprentice must be paid at not less than the rate specified in the registered program for the apprentice's level of progress, expressed as a percentage of the journeyman hourly rate specified in the applicable wage determination. (5) Apprentices shall be paid fringe benefits in accordance with the provisions of the apprenticeship program. If the apprenticeship program does not specify fringe benefits, apprentices must be paid the full amount of fringe benefits listed on the wage determination for the applicable classification. If the Administrator determines that a different practice prevails for the applicable apprentice classification, fringes shall be paid in accordance with that determination. (6) In the event OATELS, or a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by OATELS, withdraws approval of an apprenticeship program, the Contractor will no longer be permitted to utilize apprentices at less than the applicable predetermined rate for the work performed until an acceptable program is approved. (b) Trainees. (1) Except as provided in 29 CFR 5.16, trainees will not be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work performed unless they are employed pursuant to and individually registered in a program which has received prior approval, evidenced by formal certification by the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS). The ratio of trainees to journeymen on the job site shall not be greater than permitted under the plan approved by OATELS. (2) Every trainee must be paid at not less than the rate specified in the approved program for the trainee's level of progress, expressed as a percentage of the journeyman hourly rate specified in the applicable wage determination. Trainees shall be paid fringe benefits in accordance with the provisions of the trainee program. If the trainee program does not mention fringe benefits, trainees shall be paid the full amount of fringe benefits listed in the wage determination unless the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division determines that there is an apprenticeship program associated with the corresponding journeyman wage rate in the wage determination which provides for less than full fringe benefits for apprentices. Any employee listed on the payroll at a trainee rate who is not registered and participating in a training plan approved by the OATELS shall be paid not less than the applicable wage rate in the wage determination for the classification of work actually performed. In addition, any trainee performing work on the job site in excess of the ratio permitted under the registered program shall be paid not less than the applicable wage rate in the wage determination for the work actually performed. (3) In the event OATELS withdraws approval of a training program, the Contractor will no longer be permitted to utilize trainees at less than the applicable predetermined rate for the work performed until an acceptable program is approved. (c) Equal employment opportunity. The utilization of apprentices, trainees, and journeymen under this clause shall be in conformity with the equal employment opportunity requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, and 29 CFR Part 30.

52.223-10

Page: 54 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.223-10 WASTE REDUCTION PROGRAM (MAY 2011) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause --
Recycling means the series of activities, including collection, separation, and processing, by which products or other materials are recovered from the solid waste stream for use in the form of raw materials in the manufacture of products other than fuel for producing heat or power by combustion. Waste prevention means any change in the design, manufacturing, purchase, or use of materials or products (including packaging) to reduce their amount or toxicity before they are discarded. Waste prevention also refers to the reuse of products or materials. Waste reduction means preventing or decreasing the amount of waste being generated through waste prevention, recycling, or purchasing recycled and environmentally preferable products. (b) Consistent with the requirements of section 3(e) of Executive Order 13423, the Contractor shall establish a program to promote cost-effective waste reduction in all operations and facilities covered by this contract. The Contractor's programs shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local requirements, specifically including Section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6962, et seq.) and implementing regulations (40 CFR part 247).

52.223-18
52.223-18 ENCOURAGING CONTRACTOR POLICIES TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (AUG 2011)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause ­ "Driving" ­ (1) Means operating a motor vehicle on an active roadway with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light, stop sign, or otherwise. (2) Does not include operating a motor vehicle with or without the motor running when one has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has halted in a location where one can safely remain stationary. "Text messaging" means reading from or entering data into any handheld or other electronic device, including for the purpose of short message service texting, e-mailing, instant messaging, obtaining navigational information, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication. The term does not include glancing at or listening to a navigational device that is secured in a commercially designed holder affixed to the vehicle, provided that the destination and route are programmed into the device either before driving or while stopped in a location off the roadway where it is safe and legal to park. (b) This clause implements Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving, dated October 1, 2009. (c) The Contractor should ­ (1) Adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving ­ (i) Company-owned or -rented vehicles or Government-owned vehicles; or (ii) Privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government. (2) Conduct initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as ­

Page: 55 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(i) Establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving; and (ii) Education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving. (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed the micro-purchase threshold.

52.223-5
52.223-5 POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION (MAY 2011)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause-- Toxic chemical means a chemical or chemical category listed in 40 CFR 372.65. (b) Federal facilities are required to comply with the provisions of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (42 U.S.C. 11001-11050), and the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) (42 U.S.C. 13101-13109). (c) The Contractor shall provide all information needed by the Federal facility to comply with the following: (1) The emergency planning reporting requirements of Section 302 of EPCRA. (2) The emergency notice requirements of Section 304 of EPCRA. (3) The list of Material Safety Data Sheets, required by Section 311 of EPCRA. (4) The emergency and hazardous chemical inventory forms of Section 312 of EPCRA. (5) The toxic chemical release inventory of Section 313 of EPCRA, which includes the reduction and recycling information required by Section 6607 of PPA. (6) The toxic chemical and hazardous substance release and use reduction goals of section 2(e) of Executive Order 13423 and of Executive Order 13514.

52.224-1
52.224-1 PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984)
The Contractor will be required to design, develop, or operate a system of records on individuals, to accomplish an agency function subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, December 31, 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) and applicable agency regulations. Violation of the Act may involve the imposition of criminal penalties.

52.224-2
52.224-2 PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984)
(a) The Contractor agrees to-- (1) Comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (the Act) and the agency rules and regulations issued under the Act in the design, development, or operation of any system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function when the contract specifically identifies--

Page: 56 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(i) The systems of records; and (ii) The design, development, or operation work that the Contractor is to perform; (2) Include the Privacy Act notification contained in this contract in every solicitation and resulting subcontract and in every subcontract awarded without a solicitation, when the work statement in the proposed subcontract requires the redesign, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals that is subject to the Act; and (3) Include this clause, including this subparagraph (3), in all subcontracts awarded under this contract which requires the design, development, or operation of such a system of records. (b) In the event of violations of the Act, a civil action may be brought against the agency involved when the violation concerns the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, and criminal penalties may be imposed upon the officers or employees of the agency when the violation concerns the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function. For purposes of the Act, when the contract is for the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, the Contractor is considered to be an employee of the agency. (c) (1) "Operation of a system of records," as used in this clause, means performance of any of the activities associated with maintaining the system of records, including the collection, use, and dissemination of records. (2) "Record," as used in this clause, means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the person's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint or voiceprint or a photograph. (3) "System of records on individuals," as used in this clause, means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.

52.225-13
52.225-13 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008)
(a) Except as authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the Department of the Treasury, the Contractor shall not acquire, for use in the performance of this contract, any supplies or services if any proclamation, Executive order, or statute administered by OFAC, or if OFAC's implementing regulations at 31 CFR chapter V, would prohibit such a transaction by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) Except as authorized by OFAC, most transactions involving Cuba, Iran, and Sudan are prohibited, as are most imports from Burma or North Korea, into the United States or its outlying areas. Lists of entities and individuals subject to economic sanctions are included in OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn. More information about these restrictions, as well as updates, is available in the OFAC's regulations at 31 CFR chapter V and/or on OFAC's Web site at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac. (c) The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts.

52.225-25
52.225-25 PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES ENGAGING IN SANCTIONED ACTIVITIES RELATING TO IRAN

Page: 57 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

­ REPRESENTATION AND CERTIFICATION (NOV 2011)
(a) Definition. As used in this provision -- "Person"-- (1) Means-- (i) A natural person; (ii) A corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, and any governmental entity operating as a business enterprise; and (iii) Any successor to any entity described in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition; and (2) Does not include a government or governmental entity that is not operating as a business enterprise. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). (b) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this provision or if a waiver has been granted in accordance with 25.703-4, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (1) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and (2) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. These sanctioned activities are in the areas of development of the petroleum resources of Iran, production of refined petroleum products in Iran, sale and provision of refined petroleum products to Iran, and contributing to Iran's ability to acquire or develop certain weapons or technologies. (d) Exception for trade agreements. The representation requirement of paragraph (c)(1) and the certification requirement of paragraph (c)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (1) This solicitation includes a trade agreements notice or certification (e.g., 52.225-4, 52.225-6, 52.225-12, 52.225-24, or comparable agency provision); and (2) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products or designated country construction material.

Page: 58 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.225-5
52.225-5 TRADE AGREEMENTS (APR 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause -- "Caribbean Basin country end product"-- (1) Means an article that -- (i) (A) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin country; or (B) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed in a Caribbean Basin country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed; and (ii) Is not excluded from duty-free treatment for Caribbean countries under 19 U.S.C. 2703(b). (A) For this reason, the following articles are not Caribbean Basin country end products: (1) Tuna, prepared or preserved in any manner in airtight containers; (2) Petroleum, or any product derived from petroleum; (3) Watches and watch parts (including cases, bracelets, and straps) of whatever type including, but not limited to, mechanical, quartz digital, or quartz analog, if such watches or watch parts contain any material that is the product of any country to which the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) column 2 rates of duty apply (i.e., Afghanistan, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam); and (4) Certain of the following: textiles and apparel articles; footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and leather wearing apparel; or handloomed, handmade, and folklore articles; (B) Access to the HTSUS to determine duty-free status of articles of these types is available at http://www.usitc.gov/tata/hts/. In particular, see the following: (1) General Note 3(c), Products Eligible for Special Tariff treatment. (2) General Note 17, Products of Countries Designated as Beneficiary Countries under the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act of 2000. (3) Section XXII, Chapter 98, Subchapter II, Articles Exported and Returned, Advanced or Improved Abroad, U.S. Note 7(b). (4) Section XXII, Chapter 98, Subchapter XX, Goods Eligible for Special Tariff Benefits under the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act; and (2) Refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the acquisition, includes services (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that

Page: 59 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

of the article itself. "Designated country" means any of the following countries: (1) A World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement country (Armenia, Aruba, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan (known in the World Trade Organization as "the Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu (Chinese Taipei))", or United Kingdom); (2) A Free Trade Agreement country (Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Peru, or Singapore); (3) A least developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or (4) A Caribbean Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad and Tobago). "Designated country end product" means a WTO GPA country end product, an FTA country end product, a least developed country end product, or a Caribbean Basin country end product. "End product" means those articles, materials, and supplies to be acquired under the contract for public use. "Free Trade Agreement country end product" means an article that -- (1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country; or (2) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed in an FTA country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes services (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself. "Least developed country end product" means an article that -- (1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country; or (2) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed in a least developed country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product, includes services (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself.

Page: 60 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

"United States" means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas. "U.S.-made end product" means an article that is mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States or that is substantially transformed in the United States into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. "WTO GPA country end product" means an article that -- (1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or (2) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been substantially transformed in a WTO GPA country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes services, (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the article itself. (b) Delivery of end products. The Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and FTAs apply to this acquisition. Unless otherwise specified, these trade agreements apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor shall deliver under this contract only U.S.-made or designated country end products except to the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of other end products in the provision entitled "Trade Agreements Certificate."

52.228-5
52.228-5 INSURANCE--WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION (JAN 1997)
(a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire performance of this contract, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. (b) Before commencing work under this contract, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing that the required insurance has been obtained. The policies evidencing required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or any material change adversely affecting the Government's interest shall not be effective-- (1) For such period as the laws of the State in which this contract is to be performed prescribe; or (2) Until 30 days after the insurer or the Contractor gives written notice to the Contracting Officer, whichever period is longer. (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this contract that require work on a Government installation and shall require subcontractors to provide and maintain the insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. The Contractor shall maintain a copy of all subcontractors' proofs of required insurance, and shall make copies available to the Contracting Officer upon request.

52.229-1
52.229-1 STATE AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984)
Notwithstanding the terms of the Federal, State, and Local Taxes clause, the contract price excludes all State and local taxes levied on or measured by the contract or sales price of the services or completed supplies furnished under this contract. The Contractor shall state separately on its invoices taxes excluded from the contract price, and the Government agrees either to pay the amount of the taxes to the Contractor or provide

Page: 61 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

evidence necessary to sustain an exemption.

52.229-3
52.229-3 Federal, State, AND LOCAL Taxes (APR 2003) (DEVIATION ­ FEB 2007)
(a) As used in this clause-- "After-imposed Federal tax" means any new or increased Federal excise tax or duty, or tax that was exempted or excluded on the contract date but whose exemption was later revoked or reduced during the contract period, on the transactions or property covered by this contract that the Contractor is required to pay or bear as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. It does not include social security tax or other employment taxes. "After-relieved Federal tax" means any amount of Federal excise tax or duty, except social security or other employment taxes, that would otherwise have been payable on the transactions or property covered by this contract, but which the Contractor is not required to pay or bear, or for which the Contractor obtains a refund or drawback, as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. "All applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties" means all taxes and duties, in effect on the contract date, that the taxing authority is imposing and collecting on the transactions or property covered by this contract. "Contract date" means the date set for bid opening or, if this is a negotiated contract or a modification, the effective date of this contract or modification. "Local taxes" includes taxes imposed by a possession or territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, or the Northern Mariana Islands, if the contract is performed wholly or partly in any of those areas. (b) The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (c) The contract price shall be increased by the amount of any after-imposed Federal tax, provided the Contractor warrants in writing that no amount for such newly imposed Federal excise tax or duty or rate increase was included in the contract price, as a contingency reserve or otherwise. (d) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved Federal tax. (e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any Federal excise tax or duty, except social security or other employment taxes, that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Contractor's fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer. (f) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. (g) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to any Federal excise tax or duty that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. (h) The ordering activity shall, without liability, furnish evidence appropriate to establish exemption from any Federal, State, or local tax when the Contractor requests such evidence and a reasonable basis exists to sustain the exemption.

52.232-17
52.232-17 INTEREST (OCT 2010) (DEVIATION ­ MAY 2003)

Page: 62 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this contract under a Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data clause or a Cost Accounting Standards clause, all amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the ordering activity under this contract (net of any applicable tax credit under the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1481)) shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in Section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-563), which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (b) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (1) The date fixed under this contract. (2) The date of the first written demand for payment consistent with this contract, including any demand resulting from a default termination. (3) The date the ordering activity transmits to the Contractor a proposed supplemental agreement to confirm completed negotiations establishing the amount of debt. (4) If this contract provides for revision of prices, the date of written notice to the Contractor stating the amount of refund payable in connection with a pricing proposal or a negotiated pricing agreement not confirmed by contract modification. (c) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.614-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.

52.232-19
52.232-19 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR (APR 1984) (DEVIATION -- MAY 2003)
Funds are not presently available for performance under this contract beyond (to be determined by the ordering activity). The ordering activity's obligation for performance of this contract beyond that date is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the ordering activity for any payment may arise for performance under this contract beyond (to be determined by the ordering activity), until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for performance and until the Contractor receives notice of availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.

52.232-33
52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003)
(a) Method of payment. (1) All payments by the Government under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT), except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term "EFT" refers to the funds transfer and may also include the payment information transfer. (2) In the event the Government is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either-- (i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or (ii) Request the Government to extend the payment due date until such time as the

Page: 63 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Government can make payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of this clause). (b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the CCR database. (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR part 210. (d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor's EFT information in the CCR database is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the CCR database; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Government used the Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the Government remains responsible for-- (i) Making a correct payment; (ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and (iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds. (2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of Government release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and-- (i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the Government is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the Government shall not make payment, and the provisions of paragraph (d) of this clause shall apply. (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in the CCR database and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to subpart 32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause.

Page: 64 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor's financial agent. (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in the CCR database.

52.232-34
52.232-34 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (MAY 1999) (DEVIATION ­ FEB 2007)
(a) Method of payment. (1) All payments by the ordering activity under this contract shall be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT) except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. As used in this clause, the term "EFT" refers to the funds transfer and may also include the payment information transfer. (2) In the event the ordering activity is unable to release one or more payments by EFT, the Contractor agrees to either-- (i) Accept payment by check or some other mutually agreeable method of payment; or (ii) Request the ordering activity to extend payment due dates until such time as the ordering activity makes payment by EFT (but see paragraph (d) of this clause). (b) Mandatory submission of Contractor's EFT information. (1) The Contractor is required to provide the ordering activity with the information required to make payment by EFT (see paragraph (j) of this clause). The Contractor shall provide this information directly to the office designated in this contract to receive that information (hereafter: "designated office") by the date determined by the Ordering Agency. If not otherwise specified in this contract, the payment office is the designated office for receipt of the Contractor's EFT information. If more than one designated office is named for the contract, the Contractor shall provide a separate notice to each office. In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to the designated office(s). (2) If the Contractor provides EFT information applicable to multiple contracts, the Contractor shall specifically state the applicability of this EFT information in terms acceptable to the designated office. However, EFT information supplied to a designated office shall be applicable only to contracts that identify that designated office as the office to receive EFT information for that contract. (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The ordering activity may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR Part 210. (d) Suspension of payment. (1) The ordering activity is not required to make any payment under this contract until after receipt, by the designated office, of the correct EFT payment information from the Contractor.

Page: 65 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Until receipt of the correct EFT information, any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. (2) If the EFT information changes after submission of correct EFT information, the ordering activity shall begin using the changed EFT information no later than 30 days after its receipt by the designated office to the extent payment is made by EFT. However, the Contractor may request that no further payments be made until the updated EFT information is implemented by the payment office. If such suspension would result in a late payment under the prompt payment terms of this contract, the Contractor's request for suspension shall extend the due date for payment by the number of days of the suspension. (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (1) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the ordering activity used the Contractor's EFT information incorrectly, the ordering activity remains responsible for-- (i) Making a correct payment; (ii) Paying any prompt payment penalty due; and (iii) Recovering any erroneously directed funds. (2) If an uncompleted or erroneous transfer occurs because the Contractor's EFT information was incorrect, or was revised within 30 days of ordering activity release of the EFT payment transaction instruction to the Federal Reserve System, and-- (i) If the funds are no longer under the control of the payment office, the ordering activity is deemed to have made payment and the Contractor is responsible for recovery of any erroneously directed funds; or (ii) If the funds remain under the control of the payment office, the ordering activity shall not make payment and the provisions of paragraph (d) shall apply. (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall provide the EFT information required by paragraph (j) of this clause to the designated office, and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the ordering activity, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The ordering activity is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information provided by the Contractor's financial agent. (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The ordering activity may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the ordering activity does not guarantee that any

Page: 66 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the ordering activity. If the ordering activity makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the ordering activity shall mail the payment information to the remittance address in the contract. (j) EFT information. The Contractor shall provide the following information to the designated office. The Contractor may supply this data for this or multiple contracts (see paragraph (b) of this clause). The Contractor shall designate a single financial agent per contract capable of receiving and processing the EFT information using the EFT methods described in paragraph (c) of this clause. (1) The contract number (or other procurement identification number). (2) The Contractor's name and remittance address, as stated in the contract(s). (3) The signature (manual or electronic, as appropriate), title, and telephone number of the Contractor official authorized to provide this information. (4) The name, address, and 9-digit Routing Transit Number of the Contractor's financial agent. (5) The Contractor's account number and the type of account (checking, saving, or lockbox). (6) If applicable, the Fedwire Transfer System telegraphic abbreviation of the Contractor's financial agent. (7) If applicable, the Contractor shall also provide the name, address, telegraphic abbreviation, and 9-digit Routing Transit Number of the correspondent financial institution receiving the wire transfer payment if the Contractor's financial agent is not directly on-line to the Fedwire Transfer System; and, therefore, not the receiver of the wire transfer payment.

52.232-36
52.232-36 PAYMENT BY THIRD PARTY (FEB 2010) (DEVIATION ­ MAY 2003)
(a) General. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to accept payments due under this contract, through payment by a third party in lieu of payment directly from the ordering activity, in accordance with the terms of this clause. The third party and, if applicable, the particular credit card to be used are identified elsewhere in this contract. (2) The credit card is not authorized as a method of payment during any period of the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) indicates that the Contractor has delinquent debt that is subject to collection under the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). Information on TOP is available at http://fms.treas.gov/debt/index.html. If the CCR subsequently indicates that the Contractor no longer has delinquent debt, the Contractor may request the Contracting Officer to authorize payment by credit card. (b) Contractor payment request. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, the Contractor shall make payment requests through a charge to the ordering activity account with the third party, at the time and for the amount due in accordance with those clauses of this contract that authorize the Contractor to submit invoices, contract financing requests, other payment requests, or as provided in other clauses providing for payment to the Contractor. (2) When the Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that the credit card is no longer an

Page: 67 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

authorized method of payment, the Contractor shall make such payment requests in accordance with instructions provided by the Contracting Officer during the period when the purchase card is not authorized. (c) Payment. The Contractor and the third party shall agree that payments due under this contract shall be made upon submittal of payment requests to the third party in accordance with the terms and conditions of an agreement between the Contractor, the Contractor's financial agent (if any), and the third party and its agents (if any). No payment shall be due the Contractor until such agreement is made. Payments made or due by the third party under this clause are not payments made by the ordering activity and are not subject to the Prompt Payment Act or any implementation thereof in this contract. (d) Documentation. Documentation of each charge against the ordering activity's account shall be provided to the Contracting Officer upon request. (e) Assignment of claims. Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, if any payment is made under this clause, then no payment under this contract shall be assigned under the provisions of the assignment of claims terms of this contract or the Assignment of Claims Act of 1940, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3727, 41 U.S.C. 15. (f) Other payment terms. The other payment terms of this contract shall govern the content and submission of payment requests. If any clause requires information or documents in or with the payment request, that is not provided in the third party agreement referenced in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall obtain instructions from the Contracting Officer before submitting such a payment request.

52.232-37
52.232-37 MULTIPLE PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS (MAY 1999)
This contract or agreement provides for payments to the Contractor through several alternative methods. The applicability of specific methods of payment and the designation of the payment office(s) are either stated-- (a) Elsewhere in this contract or agreement; or (b) In individual orders placed under this contract or agreement.

52.233-1
52.233-1 DISPUTES (JUL 2002)
(a) This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613). (b) Except as provided in the Act, all disputes arising under or relating to this contract shall be resolved under this clause. (c) "Claim," as used in this clause, means a written demand or written assertion by one of the contracting parties seeking, as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation of contract terms, or other relief arising under or relating to this contract. However, a written demand or written assertion by the Contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding $100,000 is not a claim under the Act until certified. A voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not in dispute when submitted is not a claim under the Act. The submission may be converted to a claim under the Act, by complying with the submission and certification requirements of this clause, if it is disputed either as to liability or amount or is not acted upon in a reasonable time. (d) (1) A claim by the Contractor shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated in this contract, submitted within 6 years after accrual of the claim to the Contracting Officer for a written decision. A claim by the Government against the Contractor shall be subject to a written

Page: 68 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

decision by the Contracting Officer. (2) (i) The Contractor shall provide the certification specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this clause when submitting any claim exceeding $100,000. (ii) The certification requirement does not apply to issues in controversy that have not been submitted as all or part of a claim. (iii) The certification shall state as follows: "I certify that the claim is made in good faith; that the supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief; that the amount requested accurately reflects the contract adjustment for which the Contractor believes the Government is liable; and that I am duly authorized to certify the claim on behalf of the Contractor." (3) The certification may be executed by any person duly authorized to bind the Contractor with respect to the claim. (e) For Contractor claims of $50,000 or less, the Contracting Officer must, if requested in writing by the Contractor, render a decision within 60 days of the request. For Contractor-certified claims over $50,000, the Contracting Officer must, within 60 days, decide the claim or notify the Contractor of the date by which the decision will be made. (f) The Contracting Officer's decision shall be final unless the Contractor appeals or files a suit as provided in the Act. (g) If the claim by the Contractor is submitted to the Contracting Officer or a claim by the Government is presented to the Contractor, the parties, by mutual consent, may agree to use alternative dispute resolution (ADR). If the Contractor refuses an offer for ADR, the Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer, in writing, of the Contractor's specific reasons for rejecting the offer. (h) The Government shall pay interest on the amount found due and unpaid from (1) the date that the Contracting Officer receives the claim (certified, if required); or (2) the date that payment otherwise would be due, if that date is later, until the date of payment. With regard to claims having defective certifications, as defined in FAR 33.201, interest shall be paid from the date that the Contracting Officer initially receives the claim. Simple interest on claims shall be paid at the rate, fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in the Act, which is applicable to the period during which the Contracting Officer receives the claim and then at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Treasury Secretary during the pendency of the claim. (i) The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal, or action arising under the contract, and comply with any decision of the Contracting Officer.

52.233-3
52.233-3 PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996)
(a) Upon receipt of a notice of protest (as defined in FAR 33.101) or a determination that a protest is likely (see FAR 33.102(d)), the Contracting Officer may, by written order to the Contractor, direct the Contractor to stop performance of the work called for by this contract. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Upon receipt of the final decision in the protest, the Contracting Officer shall either-- (1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for

Page: 69 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled either before or after a final decision in the protest, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-- (1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to an adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon the request at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. (e) The Government's rights to terminate this contract at anytime are not affected by action taken under this clause. (f) If, as the result of the Contractor's intentional or negligent misstatement, misrepresentation, or miscertification, a protest related to this contract is sustained, and the Government pays costs, as provided in FAR 33.102(b)(2), or 33.104(h)(1), the Government may require the Contractor to reimburse the Government the amount of such costs. In addition to any other remedy available, and pursuant to the requirements of Subpart 32.6, the Government may collect this debt by offsetting the amount against any payment due the Contractor under any contract between the Contractor and the Government.

52.233-4
52.233-4 APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004)
United States law will apply to resolve any claim of breach of this contract.

52.237-1
52.237-1 SITE VISIT (APR 1984)
Offerors or quoters are urged and expected to inspect the site where services are to be performed and to satisfy themselves regarding all general and local conditions that may affect the cost of contract performance, to the extent that the information is reasonably obtainable. In no event shall failure to inspect the site constitute grounds for a claim after contract award.

52.237-10
52.237-10 IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- Uncompensated overtime means the hours worked without additional compensation in excess of an

Page: 70 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

average of 40 hours per week by direct charge employees who are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act. Compensated personal absences such as holidays, vacations, and sick leave shall be included in the normal work week for purposes of computing uncompensated overtime hours. Uncompensated overtime rate is the rate that results from multiplying the hourly rate for a 40-hour work week by 40, and then dividing by the proposed hours per week. For example, 45 hours proposed on a 40-hour work week basis at $20 per hour would be converted to an uncompensated overtime rate of $17.78 per hour ($20.00 x 40 divided by 45=$17.78). (b) For any proposed hours against which an uncompensated overtime rate is applied, the offeror shall identify in its proposal the hours in excess of an average of 40 hours per week, by labor category at the same level of detail as compensated hours, and the uncompensated overtime rate per hour, whether at the prime or subcontract level. This includes uncompensated overtime hours that are in indirect cost pools for personnel whose regular hours are normally charged direct. (c) The offeror's accounting practices used to estimate uncompensated overtime must be consistent with its cost accounting practices used to accumulate and report uncompensated overtime hours. (d) Proposals that include unrealistically low labor rates, or that do not otherwise demonstrate cost realism, will be considered in a risk assessment and will be evaluated for award in accordance with that assessment. (e) The offeror shall include a copy of its policy addressing uncompensated overtime with its proposal.

52.237-2
52.237-2 PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984)
The Contractor shall use reasonable care to avoid damaging existing buildings, equipment, and vegetation on the Government installation. If the Contractor's failure to use reasonable care causes damage to any of this property, the Contractor shall replace or repair the damage at no expense to the Government as the Contracting Officer directs. If the Contractor fails or refuses to make such repair or replacement, the Contractor shall be liable for the cost, which may be deducted from the contract price.

52.237-3
52.237-3 CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)
(a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to-- (1) Furnish phase-in training; and (2) Exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor. (b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer's written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer's approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency. (c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this contract. The

Page: 71 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor. (d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract.

52.239-1
52.239-1 PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996)
(a) The Contractor shall not publish or disclose in any manner, without the Contracting Officer's written consent, the details of any safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor under this contract or otherwise provided by the Government. (b) To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Government data, the Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor's facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases. (c) If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either the Government or the Contractor, or if existing safeguards have ceased to function, the discoverer shall immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party.

52.242-13
52.242-13 BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995)
In the event the Contractor enters into proceedings relating to bankruptcy, whether voluntary or involuntary, the Contractor agrees to furnish, by certified mail or electronic commerce method authorized by the contract, written notification of the bankruptcy to the Contracting Officer responsible for administering the contract. This notification shall be furnished within five days of the initiation of the proceedings relating to bankruptcy filing. This notification shall include the date on which the bankruptcy petition was filed, the identity of the court in which the bankruptcy petition was filed, and a listing of Government contract numbers and contracting offices for all Government contracts against which final payment has not been made. This obligation remains in effect until final payment under this contract.

52.242-15
52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989)
(a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order to the Contractor, require the Contractor to stop all, or any part, of the work called for by this contract for a period of 90 days after the order is delivered to the Contractor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Within a period of 90 days after a stop-work is delivered to the Contractor, or within any extension of that period to which the parties shall have agreed, the Contracting Officer shall either -- (1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled or the period of the order or any extension

Page: 72 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

thereof expires, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if -- (1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to the adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that, if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon the claim submitted at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order.

52.246-4
52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996) (DEVIATION - MAY 2003)
(a) Definition: "Services," as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or utilized in the performance of services. (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the ordering activity covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the ordering activity during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) The ordering activity has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The ordering activity shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) If the ordering activity performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) If any of the services do not conform with contract requirements, the ordering activity may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by reperformance, the ordering activity may-- (1) Require the Contractor to take necessary action to ensure that future performance conforms to contract requirements; and (2) Reduce the contract price to reflect the reduced value of the services performed. (f) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or to take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the ordering activity may-(1) By contract or otherwise, perform the services and charge to the Contractor any cost incurred by the ordering activity that is directly related to the performance of such service; or

Page: 73 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) Terminate the contract for default.

52.247-1
52.247-1 COMMERCIAL BILL OF LADING NOTATIONS (FEB 2006)
When the Contracting Officer authorizes supplies to be shipped on a commercial bill of lading and the Contractor will be reimbursed these transportation costs as direct allowable costs, the Contractor shall ensure before shipment is made that the commercial shipping documents are annotated with either of the following notations, as appropriate: (a) If the Government is shown as the consignor or the consignee, the annotation shall be: "Transportation is for the Federal Government and the actual total transportation charges paid to the carrier(s) by the consignor or consignee are assignable to, and shall be reimbursed by, the Government." (b) If the Government is not shown as the consignor or the consignee, the annotation shall be: "Transportation is for the Federal Government and the actual total transportation charges paid to the carrier(s) by the consignor or consignee shall be reimbursed by the Government, pursuant to cost-reimbursement contract No. To be determined. This may be confirmed by contacting To be determined."

52.247-32
52.247-32 F.O.B. ORIGIN, FREIGHT PREPAID (FEB 2006)
(a) The term "f.o.b. origin, freight prepaid," as used in this clause, means-- (1) Free of expense to the Government delivered-- (i) On board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier (or of the Government, if specified) at a designated point in the city, county, and State from which the shipments will be made and from which line-haul transportation service (as distinguished from switching, local drayage, or other terminal service) will begin; (ii) To, and placed on, the carrier's wharf (at ship-side, within reach of the ship's loading tackle, when the shipping point is within a port area having water transportation service) or the carrier's freight station; (iii) To a U.S. Postal Service facility; or (iv) If stated in the solicitation, to any Government-designated point located within the same city or commercial zone as the f.o.b. origin point specified in the contract (the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration prescribes commercial zones at Subpart B of 49 CFR part 372); and (2) The cost of transportation, ultimately the Government's obligation, is prepaid by the Contractor to the point specified in the contract. (b) The Contractor shall-- (1) (i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or (ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment in conformance with carrier requirements to protect the goods and to ensure assessment of the lowest applicable transportation charge;

Page: 74 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) (i) Order specified carrier equipment when requested by the Government; or (ii) If not specified, order appropriate carrier equipment not in excess of capacity to accommodate shipment; (3) Deliver the shipment in good order and condition to the carrier, and load, stow, trim, block, and/or brace carload or truckload shipment (when loaded by the Contractor) on or in the carrier's conveyance as required by carrier rules and regulations; (4) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods-- (i) Occurring before delivery to the carrier; (ii) Resulting from improper packing or marking; or (iii) Resulting from improper loading, stowing, trimming, blocking, and/or bracing of the shipment, if loaded by the Contractor on or in the carrier's conveyance; (5) Prepare a bill of lading or other transportation receipt. The bill of lading shall show-- (i) A description of the shipment in terms of the governing freight classification or tariff (or Government rate tender) under which lowest freight rates are applicable; (ii) The seals affixed to the conveyance with their serial numbers or other identification; (iii) Lengths and capacities of cars or trucks ordered and furnished; (iv) Other pertinent information required to effect prompt delivery to the consignee, including name, delivery address, postal address and ZIP code of consignee, routing, etc.; (v) Special instructions or annotations requested by the ordering agency for bills of lading; e.g., "This shipment is the property of, and the freight charges paid to the carrier(s) will be reimbursed by, the Government"; and (vi) The signature of the carrier's agent and the date the shipment is received by the carrier; (6) Distribute the copies of the bill of lading, or other transportation receipts, as directed by the ordering agency; and (7) Prepay all freight charges to the extent specified in the contract. (c) These Contractor responsibilities are specified for performance at the plant or plants at which these supplies are to be finally inspected and accepted, unless the facilities for shipment by carrier's equipment are not available at the Contractor's plant, in which case the responsibilities shall be performed f.o.b. the point or points in the same or nearest city where the specified carrier's facilities are available; subject, however, to the following qualifications: (1) If the Contractor's shipping plant is located in the State of Alaska or Hawaii, the Contractor shall deliver the supplies listed for shipment outside Alaska or Hawaii to the port of loading in Alaska or Hawaii, respectively, as specified in the contract, at Contractor's expense, and to that extent the contract shall be "f.o.b. destination." (2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (c)(1) of this clause, if the Contractor's shipping plant is located in the State of Hawaii, and the contract requires delivery to be made by container service, the Contractor shall deliver the supplies, at the Contractor's expense to the container yard in the same or nearest city where seavan container service is available.

Page: 75 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

52.247-34
52.247-34 F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991) (DEVIATION ­ MAY 2003)
(a) The term "f.o.b. destination," as used in this clause, means-- (1) Free of expense to the ordering activity, on board the carrier's conveyance, at a specified delivery point where the consignee's facility (plant, warehouse, store, lot, or other location to which shipment can be made) is located; and (2) Supplies shall be delivered to the destination consignee's wharf (if destination is a port city and supplies are for export), warehouse unloading platform, or receiving dock, at the expense of the Contractor. The ordering activity shall not be liable for any delivery, storage, demurrage, accessorial, or other charges involved before the actual delivery (or "constructive placement" as defined in carrier tariffs) of the supplies to the destination, unless such charges are caused by an act or order of the ordering activity acting in its contractual capacity. If rail carrier is used, supplies shall be delivered to the specified unloading platform of the consignee. If motor carrier (including "piggyback") is used, supplies shall be delivered to truck tailgate at the unloading platform of the consignee, except when the supplies delivered meet the requirements of Item 568 of the National Motor Freight Classification for "heavy or bulky freight." When supplies meeting the requirements of the referenced Item 568 are delivered, unloading (including movement to the tailgate) shall be performed by the consignee, with assistance from the truck driver, if requested. If the Contractor uses rail carrier or freight forwarder for less than carload shipments, the Contractor shall ensure that the carrier will furnish tailgate delivery, when required, if transfer to truck is required to complete delivery to consignee. (b) The Contractor shall-- (1) (i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or (ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment in conformance with carrier requirements; (2) Prepare and distribute commercial bills of lading; (3) Deliver the shipment in good order and condition to the point of delivery specified in the contract; (4) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods occurring before receipt of the shipment by the consignee at the delivery point specified in the contract; (5) Furnish a delivery schedule and designate the mode of delivering carrier; and (6) Pay and bear all charges to the specified point of delivery.

52.247-38
52.247-38 F.O.B. INLAND CARRIER, POINT OF EXPORTATION (FEB 2006)
(a) The term "f.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government, on board the conveyance of the inland carrier, delivered to the specified point of exportation. (b) The Contractor shall-- (1) (i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or

Page: 76 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment for ocean transportation in conformance with carrier requirements to protect the goods and to ensure assessment of the lowest applicable transportation charge; (2) Prepare and distribute commercial bills of lading or other transportation receipt; (3) (i) Deliver the shipment in good order and condition in or on the conveyance of the carrier on the date or within the period specified; and (ii) Pay and bear all applicable charges, including transportation costs, to the point of delivery specified in the contract; (4) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods occurring before delivery of the shipment to the point of delivery in the contract; and (5) At the Government's request and expense, assist in obtaining the documents required for (i) exportation or (ii) importation at destination.

52.247-39
52.247-39 F.O.B. INLAND POINT, COUNTRY OF IMPORTATION (APR 1984)
(a) The term "f.o.b. inland point, country of importation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government, on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier, delivered to the specified inland point where the consignee's facility is located. (b) The Contractor shall-- (1) (i) Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or (ii) In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment for ocean transportation in conformance with carrier requirements to protect the goods; (2) (i) Deliver, in or on the inland carrier's conveyance, the shipment in good order and condition to the specified inland point where the consignee's facility is located; and (ii) Pay and bear all applicable charges incurred up to the point of delivery, including transportation costs; export, import, or other fees or taxes; costs of landing; wharfage costs; customs duties and costs of certificates of origin; consular invoices; and other documents that may be required for importation; and (3) Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods until their arrival on or in the carrier's conveyance at the specified inland point.

52.247-58
52.247-58 LOADING, BLOCKING, AND BRACING OF FREIGHT CAR AND TRAILER-ON-FLAT CAR (PIGGYBACK) SHIPMENTS (DEVIATION--OCT 1984)
(a) Upon receipt of shipping instructions, as provided in this contract, the supplies to be included in any freight carload or trailer load (piggyback) shipment by rail shall be loaded, blocked, and braced by the Contractor in accordance with the standards published by the Association of American Railroads and effective at the time of shipment. (b) Shipments, for which the Association of American Railroads has published no such standards, shall be loaded, blocked, and braced in accordance with standards established by the shipper as evidenced by

Page: 77 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

written acceptance of an authorized representative of the carrier. (c) The Contractor shall be liable for payment of any damage to any supplies caused by the failure to load, block, and brace in accordance with acceptable standards set forth herein. (d) A copy of the appropriate pamphlet of the Association of American Railroads may be obtained from that Association.

52.247-64
52.247-64 PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED U.S.-FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS (FEB 2006) (ALTERNATE I--APR 2003)
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) and (e) of this clause, the Contractor shall use privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels, and no others, in the ocean transportation of any supplies to be furnished under this contract. (b) If such vessels are not available for timely shipment at rates that are fair and reasonable for privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer and request (1) authorization to ship in foreign-flag commercial vessels, or (2) designation of available U.S.-flag vessels. If the Contractor is authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer to ship the supplies in foreign-flag vessels, the contract price shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the difference in costs of shipping the supplies in privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels and in foreign flag vessels. (c) (1) The Contractor shall submit one legible copy of a rated on-board ocean bill of lading for each shipment to both (i) the Contracting Officer and (ii) the Office of Cargo Preference, Maritime Administration (MAR-590), 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590. Subcontractor bills of lading shall be submitted through the Prime Contractor. (2) The Contractor shall furnish these bill of lading copies (i) within 20 working days of the date of loading for shipments originating in the United States, or (ii) within 30 working days for shipments originating outside the United States. Each bill of lading copy shall contain the following information: (A) Sponsoring U.S. Government agency. (B) Name of vessel. (C) Vessel flag of registry. (D) Date of loading. (E) Port of loading. (F) Port of final discharge. (G) Description of commodity. (H) Gross weight in pounds and cubic feet if available. (I) Total ocean freight revenue in U.S. dollars. (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts or purchase orders under this contract. (e) The requirement in paragraph (a) does not apply to--

Page: 78 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Cargoes carried in vessels as required or authorized by law or treaty; (2) Ocean transportation between foreign countries of supplies purchased with foreign currencies made available, or derived from funds that are made available, under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2353); and (3) Shipments of classified supplies when the classification prohibits the use of non-Government vessels. (f) Guidance regarding fair and reasonable rates for privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels may be obtained from the Office of Costs and Rates, Maritime Administration , 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590, Phone: 202-366-4610.

52.247-65
52.247-65 F.O.B. ORIGIN, PREPAID FREIGHT--SMALL PACKAGE SHIPMENTS (JAN 1991)
(a) When authorized by the Contracting Officer, f.o.b. origin freight shipments which do not have a security classification shall move on prepaid commercial bills of lading or other shipping documents to domestic destinations, including air and water terminals. Weight of individual shipments shall be governed by carrier restrictions but shall not exceed 150 pounds by any form of commercial air or 1,000 pounds by other commercial carriers. The Government will reimburse the Contractor for reasonable freight charges. (b) The Contractor shall annotate the commercial bill of lading as required by the clause of this contract entitled "Commercial Bill of Lading Notations." (c) The Contractor shall consolidate prepaid shipments in accordance with procedures established by the cognizant transportation office. The Contractor is authorized to combine Government prepaid shipments with the Contractor's commercial shipments for delivery to one or more consignees and the Government will reimburse its pro rata share of the total freight costs. The Contractor shall provide a copy of the commercial bill of lading promptly to each consignee. Quantities shall not be divided into mailable lots for the purpose of avoiding movement by other modes of transportation. (d) Transportation charges will be billed as a separate item on the invoice for each shipment made. A copy of the pertinent bill of lading, shipment receipt, or freight bill shall accompany the invoice unless otherwise specified in the contract. (e) Loss and damage claims will be processed by the Government.

52.247-68
52.247-68 REPORT OF SHIPMENT (REPSHIP) (FEB 2006)
(a) Definition. Domestic destination, as used in this clause, means-- (1) A destination within the contiguous United States; or (2) If shipment originates in Alaska or Hawaii, a destination in Alaska or Hawaii, respectively. (b) Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall-- (1) Send a prepaid notice of shipment to the consignee transportation officer-- (i) For all shipments of-- (A) Classified material, protected sensitive, and protected controlled material;

Page: 79 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(B) Explosives and poisons, class 1, division 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3; class 2, division 2.3 and class 6, division 6.1; (C) Radioactive materials requiring the use of a III bar label; or (ii) When a truckload/carload shipment of supplies weighing 20,000 pounds or more, or a shipment of less weight that occupies the full visible capacity of a railway car or motor vehicle, is given to any carrier (common, contract, or private) for transportation to a domestic destination (other than a port for export); (2) Transmits the notice by rapid means to be received by the consignee transportation officer at least 24 hours before the arrival of the shipment; and (3) Send, to the receiving transportation officer, the bill of lading or letter or other document containing the following information and prominently identified as a "Report of Shipment" or "REPSHIP FOR T.O." RESHIP FOR T.O. 81 JUN 01 TRANSPORTATION OFFICER, DEFENSE DEPOT, MEMPHIS, TN. SHIPPED YOUR DEPOT 1981 JUN 1 540 CTNS MENS COTTON TROUSERS, 30,240 LB, 1782 CUBE, VIA XX-YY* IN CAR NO. XX 123456**-BL***-C98000031****CONTRACT DLA__________ ETA*****-JUNE 5 JONES & CO., JERSEY CITY N.J.

552.203-71
552.203-71 RESTRICTION ON ADVERTISING (SEP 1999)
The Contractor shall not refer to this contract in commercial advertising or similar promotions in such a manner as to state or imply that the product or service provided is endorsed or preferred by the White House, the Executive Office of the President, or any other element of the Federal Government, or is considered by these entities to be superior to other products or services. Any advertisement by the Contractor, including price-off coupons, that refers to a military resale activity shall contain the following statement: "This advertisement is neither paid for nor sponsored, in whole or in part, by any element of the United States Government."

552.211-73
552.211-73 MARKING (FEB 1996)
(a) General requirements. Interior packages, if any, and exterior shipping containers shall be marked as specified elsewhere in the contract. Additional marking requirements may be specified on delivery orders issued under the contract. If not otherwise specified, interior packages and exterior shipping containers shall be marked in accordance with the following standards. (1) Deliveries to civilian activities. Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Federal Standard 123, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation. (2) Deliveries to military activities. Supplies shall be marked in accordance with Military Standard 129, edition in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation. (b) Improperly marked material. When Government inspection and acceptance are at destination, and delivered supplies are not marked in accordance with contract requirements, the Government has the right, without prior notice to the Contractor to perform the required marking, by contract or otherwise, and charge the Contractor, therefor at the rate specified elsewhere in this contract. This right is not exclusive, and is in addition to other rights or remedies provided for in this contract.

552.211-75

Page: 80 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

552.211-75 PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, AND PACKING (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003)
Unless otherwise specified, all items shall be preserved, packaged, and packed in accordance with normal commercial practices, as defined in the applicable commodity specification. Packaging and packing shall comply with the requirements of the Uniform Freight Classification and the National Motor Freight Classification (issue in effect at time of shipment) and each shipping container of each item in a shipment shall be of uniform size and content, except for residual quantities. Where special or unusual packing is specified in an order, but not specifically provided for by the contract, such packing details must be the subject of an agreement independently arrived at between the ordering activity and the Contractor.

552.211-77
552.211-77 PACKING LIST (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I ­ MAY 2003)
(a) A packing list or other suitable shipping document shall accompany each shipment and shall indicate: (1) Name and address of consignor; (2) Name and complete address of consignee; (3) Ordering activity order or requisition number; (4) Government bill of lading number covering the shipment (if any); and (5) Description of the material shipped, including item number, quantity, number of containers, and package number (if any). (b) When payment will be made by Ordering activity commercial credit card, in addition to the information in (a) above, the packing list or shipping document shall include: (1) Cardholder name and telephone number; and (2) the term "Credit Card."

552.212-70
552.212-70 PREPARATION OF OFFER (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (AUG 1997)
(a) Definitions. Concession, as used in this solicitation, means a benefit, enhancement or privilege (other than a discount), which either reduces the overall cost of a customer's acquisition or encourages a customer to consummate a purchase. Concessions include, but are not limited to freight allowance, extended warranty, extended price guarantees, free installation and bonus goods. Discount, as used in this solicitation, means a reduction to catalog prices (published or unpublished). Discounts include, but are not limited to, rebates, quantity discounts, purchase option credits, and any other terms or conditions other than concessions) which reduce the amount of money a customer ultimately pays for goods or services ordered or received. Any net price lower than the list price is considered a "discount" by the percentage difference from the list price to the net price. (b) For each Special Item Number (SIN) included in an offer, the Offeror shall provide the information outlined in paragraph (c). Offerors may provide a single response covering more than one SIN, if the information disclosed is the same for all products under each SIN. If discounts and concessions vary by model or product line, offerors shall ensure that information is clearly annotated as to item or items referenced. (c) Provide information described below for each SIN: (1) Two copies of the offeror's current published (dated or otherwise identified) commercial descriptive catalogs and/or price list(s) from which discounts are offered. If special catalogs or price lists are printed for the purpose of this offer, such descriptive catalogs or price lists shall include a statement indicating the special catalog or price list represent a verbatim extract from the Offeror's commercial catalog and/or price list and identify the descriptive catalog and/or price list from which the information has been extracted. (2) Next to each offered item in the commercial catalog and/or price list, the Offeror shall write

Page: 81 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

the special item number (SIN) under which the item is being offered. Unless a special catalog or price list is submitted, all other items shall be marked "excluded," lined out, and initialed by the offeror. (3) The discount(s) offered under this solicitation. The description of discounts offered shall include all discounts, such as prompt payment discounts, quantity/dollar volume discounts (indicate whether models/products can be combined within the SIN or whether SINs can be combined to earn discounts), blanket purchase agreement discounts, or purchase option credits. If the terms of sale appearing in the commercial catalogs or price list on which an offer is based are in conflict with the terms of this solicitation, the latter shall govern. (4) A description of concessions offered under this solicitation which are not granted to other customers. Such concessions may include, but are not limited to, an extended warranty, a return/exchange goods policy, or enhanced or additional services. (5) If the Offeror is a dealer/reseller or the Offeror will use dealers to perform any aspect of contract awarded under this solicitation, describe the functions, if any, that the dealer/reseller will perform.

552.215-71
552.215-71 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS BY GSA (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (JUL 2003)
The Contractor agrees that the Administrator of General Services or any duly authorized representative shall have access to and the right to examine any books, documents, papers and records of the Contractor involving transactions related to this contract for overbillings, billing errors, compliance with the Price Reduction clause and compliance with the Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting clause of this contract. This authority shall expire 3 years after final payment. The basic contract and each option shall be treated as separate contracts for purposes of applying this clause.

552.215-72
552.215-72 PRICE ADJUSTMENT--FAILURE TO PROVIDE ACCURATE INFORMATION (AUG 1997)
(a) The Government, at its election, may reduce the price of this contract or contract modification if the Contracting Officer determines after award of this contract or contract modification that the price negotiated was increased by a significant amount because the Contractor failed to: (1) provide information required by this solicitation/contract or otherwise requested by the Government; or (2) submit information that was current, accurate, and complete; or (3) disclose changes in the Contractor's commercial pricelist(s), discounts or discounting policies which occurred after the original submission and prior to the completion of negotiations. (b) The Government will consider information submitted to be current, accurate and complete if the data is current, accurate and complete as of 14 calendar days prior to the date it is submitted. (c) If any reduction in the contract price under this clause reduces the price for items for which payment was made prior to the date of the modification reflecting the price reduction, the Contractor shall be liable to and shall pay the United States-- (1) The amount of the overpayment; and (2) Simple interest on the amount of such overpayment to be computed from the date(s) of

Page: 82 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

overpayment to the Contractor to the date the Government is repaid by the Contractor at the applicable underpayment rate effective each quarter prescribed by the Secretary of Treasury under 26 U.S.C. 6621(a)(2). (d) Failure to agree on the amount of the decrease shall be resolved as a dispute. (e) In addition to the remedy in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government may terminate this contract for default. The rights and remedies of the Government specified herein are not exclusive, and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.

552.219-72
552.219-72 PREPARATION, SUBMISSION, AND NEGOTIATION OF SUBCONTRACTING PLANS (MAR 2012)
(a) An offeror, other than a small business concern, submitting an offer that exceeds $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) shall submit a subcontracting plan with its initial offer. The subcontracting plan will be negotiated concurrently with price and any required technical and management proposals, unless the offeror submits a previously-approved commercial products plan. (b) Maximum practicable utilization of small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns as subcontractors is a matter of national interest with both social and economic benefits. The General Services Administration (GSA) expects that an offeror's subcontracting plan will reflect a commitment to assuring that small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns are provided the maximum practicable opportunity, consistent with efficient contract performance, to participate as subcontractors in the performance of the resulting contract. An offeror submitting a commercial products plan can reflect this commitment through subcontracting opportunities it provides that relate to the offeror's production generally; i.e., for both its commercial and Government business. (c) GSA believes that this potential contract provides significant opportunities for the use of small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns as subcontractors. Consequently, in addressing the eleven elements described at FAR 52.219-9(d) of the clause in this contract entitled Small Business Subcontracting Plan, the offeror shall: (1) Demonstrate that its subcontracting plan represents a creative and innovative program for involving small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns in performing the contract. (2) Include a description of the offeror's subcontracting strategies used in any previous contracts, significant achievements, and how this plan will build upon those earlier achievements. (3) Demonstrate through its plan that it understands the small business subcontracting program's objectives and GSA's expectations, and it is committed to taking those actions necessary to meet these goals or objectives. (d) In determining the acceptability of any subcontracting plan, the Contracting Officer will take each of the following actions: (1) Review the plan to verify that the offeror demonstrates an understanding of the small business subcontracting program's objectives and GSA's expectations with respect to the program and has included all the information, goals, and assurances required by FAR 52.219-9. (2) Consider previous goals and achievements of contractors in the same industry. (3) Consider information and potential sources obtained from agencies administering national and

Page: 83 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

local preference programs and other advocacy groups in evaluating whether the goals stated in the plan adequately reflect the anticipated potential for subcontracting to small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns. (4) Review the offeror's description of its strategies, historical performance and significant achievements in placing subcontracts for the same or similar products or services with small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns. The offeror's description can apply to commercial as well as previous Government contracts. (e) Failure to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan and/or correct deficiencies in a plan within the time specified by the Contracting Officer shall make the offeror ineligible for award.

552.223-70
552.223-70 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (MAY 1989)
(a) If the packaged items to be delivered under this contract are of a hazardous substance and ordinarily are intended or considered to be for use as a household item, this contract is subject to the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1261-1276), implementing regulations thereof (16 CFR Chapter II(c)), and Federal Standard No. 123, Marking for Shipment (Civil Agencies), issue in effect on the date of this solicitation. (b) The packaged items to be delivered under this contract are subject to the preparation of shipping documents, the preparation of items for transportation, shipping container construction, package making, package labeling, when required, shipper's certification of compliance, and transport vehicle placarding in accordance with Parts 171 through 178 of 49 CFR and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. (c) The minimum packaging acceptable for packaging Department of Transportation regulated hazardous materials shall be those in 49 CFR 173.

552.223-71
552.223-71 NONCONFORMING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (SEP 1999)
(a) Nonconforming supplies that contain hazardous material or that may expose persons who handle or transport the supplies to hazardous material and which require replacement under the inspection and/or warranty clauses of this contract shall be reshipped to the Contractor at the Contractor's expense. The Contractor agrees to accept return of these nonconforming supplies and to pay all costs occasioned by their return. (b) "Hazardous materials," as used in this clause, includes any material defined as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313 (including revisions adopted during the term of the contract). (c) If the Contractor fails to provide acceptable disposition instructions for the nonconforming supplies within 10 days from the date of the Government's request (or such longer period as may be agreed to between the Contracting Officer and the Contractor), or fails to accept return of the reshipped nonconforming supplies, such failure: (1) may be interpreted as a willful failure to perform, (2) may result in termination of the contract for default and (3) shall be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the Contractor for any future award (see FAR 9.104-3(b) and 9.406-2). (d) Pending final resolution of any dispute, the Contractor shall promptly comply with the decision of the Contracting Officer.

552.229-70

Page: 84 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

552.229-70 FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984)
The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes. No adjustment will be made to cover taxes which may subsequently be imposed on this transaction or changes in the rates of currently applicable taxes. However, the Government will, upon the request of the Contractor, furnish evidence appropriate to establish exemption from any tax from which the Government is exempt and which was not included in the contract price.

552.229-71
552.229-71 FEDERAL EXCISE TAX--DC GOVERNMENT (SEP 1999)
If the District of Columbia cites an Internal Revenue Tax Exempt Certificate Number on orders placed under this contract, the Contractor shall bill shipments to the District of Columbia at prices exclusive of Federal excise tax and show the amount of such tax on the invoice.

552.232-23
552.232-23 ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (SEP 1999)
Because this is a requirements or indefinite quantity contract under which more than one agency may place orders, paragraph (a) of the Assignment of Claims clause (FAR 52.232-23) is inapplicable and the following is substituted therefor: In order to prevent confusion and delay in making payment, the Contractor shall not assign any claim(s) for amounts due or to become due under this contract. However, the Contractor is permitted to assign separately to a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, including any Federal lending agency, under the provisions of the Assignment of Claims Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3727, 41 U.S.C. 15 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), all amounts due or to become due under any order amounting to $1,000 or more issued by any Government agency under this contract. Any such assignment takes effect only if and when the assignee files written notice of the assignment together with a true copy of the instrument of assignment with the contracting officer issuing the order and the finance office designated in the order to make payment. Unless otherwise stated in the order, payments to an assignee of any amounts due or to become due under any order assigned may, to the extent specified in the Act, be subject to reduction or set-off.

552.232-74
552.232-74 INVOICE PAYMENTS (SEP 1999)
(a) The due date for making invoice payments by the designated payment office is: (1) For orders placed electronically by the General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Supply Service (FSS), and to be paid by GSA through electronic funds transfer (EFT), the later of the following two events: (i) The 10th day after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from the Contractor. If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date shall be the 10th day after the date of the Contractor's invoice; provided the Contractor submitted a proper invoice and no disagreement exists over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements. (ii) The 10th day after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed by the Contractor. (2) For all other orders, the later of the following two events:

Page: 85 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(i) The 30th day after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from the Contractor. If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date shall be the 30th day after the date of the Contractor's invoice; provided the Contractor submitted a proper invoice and no disagreement exists over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements. (ii) The 30th day after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed by the Contractor. (3) On a final invoice, if the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions, acceptance occurs on the effective date of the contract settlement. (b) The General Services Administration will issue payment on the due date in (a)(1) above if the Contractor complies with full cycle electronic commerce. Full cycle electronic commerce includes all the following elements: (1) The Contractor must receive and fulfill electronic data interchange (EDI) purchase orders (transaction set 850). (2) The Contractor must generate and submit to the Government valid EDI invoices (transaction set 810) or submit invoices through the GSA Finance Center Internet-based invoice process. Internet-based invoices must be submitted using procedures provided by GSA. (3) The Contractor's financial institution must receive and process, on behalf of the Contractor, EFT payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) system. (4) The EDI transaction sets in (b)(1) through (b)(3) above must adhere to implementation conventions provided by GSA. (c) If any of the conditions in (b) above do not occur, the 10 day payment due dates in (a)(1) become 30 day payment due dates. (d) Notwithstanding paragraph (g) of the clause at FAR 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items, if the Contractor submits hard-copy invoices, submit only an original invoice. No copies of the invoice are required. (e) All other provisions of the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-125, Prompt Payment, apply.

552.232-79
552.232-79 PAYMENT BY CREDIT CARD (MAY 2003)
(a) Definitions. "Credit card" means any credit card used to pay for purchases, including the Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card. "Governmentwide commercial purchase card" means a uniquely numbered credit card issued by a contractor under GSA's Governmentwide Contract for Fleet, Travel, and Purchase Card Services to named individual Government employees or entities to pay for official Government purchases. "Oral order" means an order placed orally either in person or by telephone. (b) The Contractor must accept the credit card for payments equal to or less than the micro-purchase threshold (see Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101) for oral or written orders under this contract.

Page: 86 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(c) The Contractor and the ordering agency may agree to use the credit card for dollar amounts over the micro-purchase threshold, and the Government encourages the Contractor to accept payment by the purchase card. The dollar value of a purchase card action must not exceed the ordering agency's established limit. If the Contractor will not accept payment by the purchase card for an order exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, the Contractor must so advise the ordering agency within 24 hours of receipt of the order. (d) The Contractor shall not process a transaction for payment through the credit card clearinghouse until the purchased supplies have been shipped or services performed. Unless the cardholder requests correction or replacement of a defective or faulty item under other contract requirements, the Contractor must immediately credit a cardholder's account for items returned as defective or faulty. (e) Payments made using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card are not eligible for any negotiated prompt payment discount. Payment made using an ordering activity debit card will receive the applicable prompt payment discount.

552.232-8
552.232-8 DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (APR 1989) (DEVIATION FAR 52.232-8)
(a) Discounts for early payment (hereinafter referred to as "discounts" or "the discount") will be considered in evaluating the relationship of the offeror's concessions to the Government vis-a-vis the offeror's concessions to its commercial customers, but only to the extent indicated in this clause. (b) Discounts will not be considered to determine the low offeror in the situation described in the "Offers on Identical Products" provision of this solicitation. (c) Uneconomical discounts will not be considered as meeting the criteria for award established by the Government. In this connection, a discount will be considered uneconomical if the annualized rate of return for earning the discount is lower than the "value of funds" rate established by the Department of the Treasury and published quarterly in the Federal Register. The "value of funds" rate applied will be the rate in effect on the date specified for the receipt of offers. (d) Agencies required to use the resultant schedule will not apply the discount in determining the lowest delivered price pursuant to the FPMR, 41 CFR 101-26.408, if the agency determines that payment will probably not be made within the discount period offered. The same is true if the discount is considered uneconomical at the time of placement of the order. (e) Discounts for early payment may be offered either in the original offer or on individual invoices submitted under the resulting contract. Discounts offered will be taken by the Government if payment is made within the discount period specified. (f) Discounts that are included in offers become a part of the resulting contracts and are binding on the Contractor for all orders placed under the contract. Discounts offered only on individual invoices will be binding on the Contractor only for the particular invoice on which the discount is offered. (g) In connection with any discount offered for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the date on which an electronic funds transfer was made.

552.232-81
552.232-81 PAYMENTS BY NON-FEDERAL ORDERING ACTIVITIES (MAY 2003)

Page: 87 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

If eligible non-federal ordering activities are subject to a State prompt payment law, the terms and conditions of the applicable State law apply to the orders placed under this contract by such activities. If eligible non-federal ordering activities are not subject to a State prompt payment law, the terms and conditions of the Federal Prompt Payment Act as reflected in Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, or 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items, apply to such activities in the same manner as to Federal ordering activities.

552.232-83
552.232-83 CONTRACTOR'S BILLING RESPONSIBILITIES (MAY 2003)
The Contractor is required to perform all billings made pursuant to this contract. However, if the Contractor has dealers that participate on the contract and the billing/payment process by the Contractor for sales made by the dealer is a significant administrative burden, the following alternative procedures may be used. Where dealers are allowed by the Contractor to bill ordering activities and accept payment in the Contractor's name, the Contractor agrees to obtain from all dealers participating in the performance of the contract a written agreement, which will require dealers to-- (1) Comply with the same terms and conditions regarding prices as the Contractor for sales made under the contract; (2) Maintain a system of reporting sales under the contract to the manufacturer, which includes-- (i) The date of sale; (ii) The ordering activity to which the sale was made; (iii) The service or product/model sold; (iv) The quantity of each service or product/model sold; (v) The price at which it was sold, including discounts; and (vi) All other significant sales data. (3) Be subject to audit by the Government, with respect to sales made under the contract; and (4) Place orders and accept payments in the name of the Contractor in care of the dealer. An agreement between a Contractor and its dealers pursuant to this procedure will not establish privity of contract between dealers and the Government.

552.238-70
552.238-70 IDENTIFICATION OF ELECTRONIC OFFICE EQUIPMENT PROVIDING ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE HANDICAPPED (SEP 1991)
(a) Definitions. "Electronic office equipment accessibility" means the application/configuration of electronic office equipment (includes hardware, software, and firmware) in a manner that accommodates the functional limitations of individuals with disabilities (i.e., handicapped individuals) so as to promote productivity and provide access to work related and/or public information resources. "Handicapped individuals" mean qualified individuals with impairments as cited in 29 CFR 1613.702(f) who can benefit from electronic office equipment accessibility. "Special peripheral" means a special needs aid that provides access to electronic equipment that is

Page: 88 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

otherwise inaccessible to a handicapped individual. (b) The offeror is encouraged to identify in its offer, and include in any commercial catalogs and pricelists accepted by the Contracting Officer, office equipment, including any special peripheral, that will facilitate electronic office equipment accessibility for handicapped individuals. Identification should include the type of disability accommodated and how the users with that disability would be helped.

552.238-71
552.238-71 SUBMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AUTHORIZED FSS SCHEDULE PRICELISTS (SEP 1999) (DEVIATION DEC 2004)
(a) The Contracting Officer will return one copy of the Authorized FSS Schedule Pricelist to the Contractor with the notification of contract award. (b) The Contractor shall provide to the GSA Contracting Officer: (1) Two paper copies of the Authorized FSS Schedule Pricelist; and (2) The Authorized FSS Schedule Pricelist on a common-use electronic medium. (c) The Contracting Officer will provide detailed instructions for the electronic submission with the award notification. Some structured data entry in a prescribed format may be required. (d) During the period of the contract, the Contractor shall provide one copy of its Authorized FSS Schedule Pricelist to any authorized Schedule user, upon request.

552.238-72
552.238-72 IDENTIFICATION OF PRODUCTS THAT HAVE ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRIBUTES (SEP 2003)
(a) Several laws, Executive orders and Agency directives require Federal buyers to purchase products that are less harmful to the environment, when they are life cycle cost-effective (see FAR Subpart 23.7). The U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) requires contractors to highlight environmental products under Federal Supply Service schedule contracts in various communications media (e.g., publications and electronic formats). (b) Definitions. As used in this clause -- Energy-efficient product means a product that-- (1) Meets Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Agency criteria for use of the ENERGY STAR [reg] trademark label; or (2) Is in the upper 25 percent of efficiency for all similar products as designated by the Department of Energy's Federal Energy Management Program. GSA Advantage!Ž is an on-line shopping mall and ordering system that provides customers with access to products and services under GSA contracts. Other environmental attributes refers to product characteristics that provide environmental benefits, excluding recovered materials and energy and water efficiency. Several examples of these characteristics are biodegradable, recyclable, reduced pollutants, ozone safe, and low volatile organic compounds (VOCs).

Page: 89 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Post-consumer material means a material or finished product that has served its intended use and has been discarded for disposal or recovery, having completed its life as a consumer item. Post-consumer material is part of the broader category of "recovered material." The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has developed a list of EPA-designated products in their Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPGs) to provide Federal agencies with purchasing recommendations on specific products in a Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN). The RMAN contains recommended recovered and post-consumer material content levels for the specific products designated by EPA (40 CFR part 247 and http://www.epa.gov/cpg/). Recovered materials means waste materials and by-products recovered or diverted from solid waste, but the term does not include those materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process (Executive Order 13101 and 42 U.S.C. 6903 (19) and http://www.epa.gov/cpg/). For paper and paper products, see the definition at FAR 11.301 (42 U.S.C. 6962 (h)). Remanufactured means factory rebuilt to original specifications. Renewable energy means energy produced by solar, wind, geothermal, and biomass power. Renewable energy technology means-- (1) Technologies that use renewable energy to provide light, heat, cooling, or mechanical or electrical energy for use in facilities or other activities; or (2) The use of integrated whole-building designs that rely upon renewable energy resources, including passive solar design. (c) (1) The offeror must identify products that-- (i) Are compliant with the recovered and post-consumer material content levels recommended in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notices (RMANs) for EPA-designated products in the CPG program (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/); (ii) Contain recovered materials that either do not meet the recommended levels in the RMANs or are not EPA-designated products in the CPG program (see FAR 23.401 and http://www.epa.gov/cpg/); (iii) Are energy-efficient, as defined by either ENERGY STAR [reg] and/or FEMP's designated top 25th percentile levels (see ENERGY STAR [reg] at http://www.energystar.gov/ and FEMP at http://www.eere.energy.gov/); (iv) Are water-efficient; (v) Use renewable energy technology; (vi) Are remanufactured; and (vii) Have other environmental attributes. (2) These identifications must be made in each of the offeror's following mediums: (i) The offer itself. (ii) Printed commercial catalogs, brochures, and pricelists. (iii) Online product website.

Page: 90 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(iv) Electronic data submission for GSA Advantage! Ž submitted via GSA's Schedules Input Program (SIP) software or the Electronic Data Inter-change (EDI). Offerors can use the SIP or EDI methods to indicate environmental and other attributes for each product that is translated into respective icons in GSA Advantage! Ž . (d) An offeror, in identifying an item with an environmental attribute, must possess evidence or rely on a reasonable basis to substantiate the claim (see 16 CFR part 260, Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims). The Government will accept an offeror's claim of an item's environmental attribute on the basis of-- (1) Participation in a Federal agency-sponsored program (e.g., the EPA and DOE ENERGY STAR [reg] product labeling program); (2) Verification by an independent organization that specializes in certifying such claims; or (3) Possession of competent and reliable evidence. For any test, analysis, research, study, or other evidence to be "competent and reliable," it must have been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results.

Note: Regulation 552.238-72 Offers of Items with Environmental Attributes. Federal agencies are required to consider the procurement of products containing post-consumer recycled content by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Section 6002, and Executive Order (EO) 13101, Greening the Government through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acquisition. EO 13101 also requires Federal agencies to consider the procurement of "environmentally preferable" and biobased products (see the GSA/FSS environmental web site at www.gsa.gov/environ for a glossary of these terms; click on "Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines" to access EO 13101). Consequently, GSA encourages submission of products with environmental attributes so that we can facilitate agency procurements of these products. If you are offering environmentally oriented products, please highlight them as such in your offer, providing detailed descriptions. If it is determined that submitted products are appropriate, they will be included on the various Government Procurement Web Pages, including the "Integrated Workplace Acquisition Center Green".

552.238-73
552.238-73 CANCELLATION (SEP 1999)
Either party may cancel this contract in whole or in part by providing written notice. The cancellation will take effect 30 calendar days after the other party receives the notice of cancellation. If the Contractor elects to cancel this contract, the Government will not reimburse the minimum guarantee.

552.238-74
552.238-74 INDUSTRIAL FUNDING FEE AND SALES REPORTING (JUL 2003)
(a) Reporting of Federal Supply Schedule Sales. The Contractor shall report all contract sales under this contract as follows: (1) The Contractor shall accurately report the dollar value, in U.S. dollars and rounded to the nearest whole dollar, of all sales under this contract by calendar quarter (January 1-March 31,

Page: 91 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

April 1-June 30, July 1-September 30, and October 1-December 31). The dollar value of a sale is the price paid by the Schedule user for products and services on a Schedule task or delivery order. The reported contract sales value shall include the Industrial Funding Fee (IFF). The Contractor shall maintain a consistent accounting method of sales reporting, based on the Contractor's established commercial accounting practice. The acceptable points at which sales may be reported include-(i) Receipt of order; (ii) Shipment or delivery, as applicable; (iii) Issuance of an invoice; or (iv) Payment. (2) Contract sales shall be reported to FSS within 30 calendar days following the completion of each reporting quarter. The Contractor shall continue to furnish quarterly reports, including "zero" sales, through physical completion of the last outstanding task order or delivery order of the contract. (3) Reportable sales under the contract are those resulting from sales of contract items to authorized users unless the purchase was conducted pursuant to a separate contracting authority such as a Governmentwide Acquisition Contract (GWAC); a separately awarded FAR Part 12, FAR Part 13, FAR Part 14, or FAR Part 15 procurement; or a non-FAR contract. Sales made to state and local governments under Cooperative Purchasing authority shall be counted as reportable sales for IFF purposes. (4) The Contractor shall electronically report the quarterly dollar value of sales, including "zero" sales, by utilizing the automated reporting system at an Internet website designated by the General Services Administration's (GSA) Federal Supply Service (FSS). Prior to using this automated system, the Contractor shall complete contract registration with the FSS Vendor Support Center (VSC). The website address, as well as registration instructions and reporting procedures, will be provided at the time of award. The Contractor shall report sales separately for each National Stock Number (NSN), Special Item Number (SIN), or sub-item. (5) The Contractor shall convert the total value of sales made in foreign currency to U.S. dollars using the "Treasury Reporting Rates of Exchange" issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Financial Management Service. The Contractor shall use the issue of the Treasury report in effect on the last day of the calendar quarter. The report is available from Financial Management Service, International Funds Branch, Telephone: (202) 874-7994, Internet: http://www.fms.treas.gov/intn.html. (b) The Contractor shall remit the IFF at the rate set by GSA's FSS. (1) The Contractor shall remit the IFF to FSS in U.S. dollars within 30 calendar days after the end of the reporting quarter; final payment shall be remitted within 30 days after physical completion of the last outstanding task order or delivery order of the contract. (2) The IFF represents a percentage of the total quarterly sales reported. This percentage is set at the discretion of GSA's FSS. GSA's FSS has the unilateral right to change the percentage at any time, but not more than once per year. FSS will provide reasonable notice prior to the effective date of the change. The IFF reimburses FSS for the costs of operating the Federal Supply Schedules Program and recoups its operating costs from ordering activities. Offerors must include the IFF in their prices. The fee is included in the award price(s) and reflected in the total amount charged to ordering activities. FSS will post notice of the current IFF at http://72a.fss.gsa.gov/ or successor website as appropriate. (c) Within 60 days of award an FSS representative will provide the Contractor with specific written

Page: 92 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

procedural instructions on remitting the IFF. FSS reserves the unilateral right to change such instructions from time to time, following notification to the Contractor. (d) Failure to remit the full amount of the IFF within 30 calendar days after the end of the applicable reporting period constitutes a contract debt to the United States Government under the terms of FAR Subpart 32.6. The Government may exercise all rights under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, including withholding or setting off payments and interest on the debt (see FAR clause 52.232-17, Interest). Should the Contractor fail to submit the required sales reports, falsify them, or fail to timely pay the IFF, this is sufficient cause for the Government to terminate the contract for cause.

552.238-75
552.238-75 PRICE REDUCTIONS (MAY 2004) (ALTERNATE I MAY 2003) 538.273(b)(2)
(a) Before award of a contract, the Contracting Officer and the Offeror will agree upon (1) the customer (or category of customers) which will be the basis of award, and (2) the Government's price or discount relationship to the identified customer (or category of customers). This relationship shall be maintained throughout the contract period. Any change in the Contractor's commercial pricing or discount arrangement applicable to the identified customer (or category of customers) which disturbs this relationship shall constitute a price reduction. (b) During the contract period, the Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer all price reductions to the customer (or category of customers) that was the basis of award. The Contractor's report shall include an explanation of the conditions under which the reductions were made. (c) (1) A price reduction shall apply to purchases under this contract if, after the date negotiations conclude, the Contractor -- (i) Revises the commercial catalog, pricelist, schedule or other document upon which contract award was predicated to reduce prices; (ii) Grants more favorable discounts or terms and conditions than those contained in the commercial catalog, pricelist, schedule or other documents upon which contract award was predicated; or (iii) Grants special discounts to the customer (or category of customers) that formed the basis of award, and the change disturbs the price/discount relationship of the Government to the customer (or category of customers) that was the basis of award. (2) The Contractor shall offer the price reduction to the eligible ordering activities with the same effective date, and for the same time period, as extended to the commercial customer (or category of customers). (d) There shall be no price reduction for sales -- (1) To commercial customers under firm, fixed-price definite quantity contracts with specified delivery in excess of the maximum order threshold specified in this contract; (2) To eligible ordering activities under this contract; (3) Made to State and local government entities when the order is placed under this contract (and the State and local government entity is the agreed upon customer or category of customer that is the basis of award); or (4) Caused by an error in quotation or billing, provided adequate documentation is furnished by the Contractor to the Contracting Officer.

Page: 93 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(e) The Contractor may offer the Contracting Officer a voluntary Governmentwide price reduction at any time during the contract period. (f) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any price reduction subject to this clause as soon as possible, but not later than 15 calendar days after its effective date. (g) The contract will be modified to reflect any price reduction which becomes applicable in accordance with this clause. Note: In accordance with GSAR clause 552.238-78 Scope of Contract (Eligible Ordering Activities)(Alternate I)(a)(2) and GSAR clause 552.238-75 Price Reductions(Alternate I)(d)(2), there shall be no price reduction for sales made under the authority of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 51 class deviation. With written authorization by a Federal Government contracting officer, a GSA contractor may place an order as an eligible ordering activity with a Schedule contractor. In this case, the Schedule contract sale shall not trigger a price reduction.

552.238-77
552.238-77 DEFINITION (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (MAY 2003)
Ordering activity (also called "ordering agency" and "ordering office") means an eligible ordering activity (see 552.238-78) authorized to place orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts.

552.243-72
552.243-72 MODIFICATIONS (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE) (JULY 2000) (DEVIATION I ­ SEPT 2010)
(a) General. The Contractor may request a contract modification by submitting a request to the Contracting Officer for approval, except as noted in paragraph (d) of this clause. At a minimum, every request shall describe the proposed change(s) and provide the rationale for the requested change(s). (b) Types of Modifications. (1) Additional items/additional SIN's. When requesting additions, the following information must be submitted: (i) Information requested in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Commercial Sales Practice Format to add SIN's. (ii) Discount information for the new items(s) or new SIN(s). Specifically, submit the information requested in paragraphs 3 through 5 of the Commercial Sales Practice Format. If this information is the same as the initial award, a statement to that effect may be submitted instead. (iii) Information about the new item(s) or the item(s) under the new SIN(s) as described in 552.212-70, Preparation of Offer (Multiple Award Schedule) is required. (iv) Delivery time(s) for the new item(s) or the item(s) under the new SIN(s) must be submitted in accordance with 552.211-78, Commercial Delivery Schedule (Multiple Award Schedule). (v) Production point(s) for the new item(s) or the item(s) under the new SIN(s) must be submitted if required by 52.215-6, Place of Performance. (vi) Hazardous Material information (if applicable) must be submitted as required by 52.223-3 (ALT I), Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data. (vii) Any information requested by 52.212-3(f), Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, that may be necessary to assure compliance with FAR 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Balance of Payments Programs--Supplies.

Page: 94 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) Deletions. The Contractors shall provide an explanation for the deletion. The Government reserves the right to reject any subsequent offer of the same item or a substantially equal item at a higher price during the same contract period, if the contracting officer finds the higher price to be unreasonable when compared with the deleted item. (3) Price Reduction. The Contractor shall indicate whether the price reduction falls under the item (i), (ii), or (iii) of paragraph (c)(1) of the Price Reductions clause at 552.238-75. If the Price reduction falls under item (i), the Contractor shall submit a copy of the dated commercial price list. If the price reduction falls under item (ii) or (iii), the Contractor shall submit a copy of the applicable price list(s), bulletins or letters or customer agreements which outline the effective date, duration, terms and conditions of the price reduction. (c) Effective dates. The effective date of any modification is the date specified in the modification, except as otherwise provided in the Price Reductions clause at 552.238-75. (d) Electronic File Updates. The Contractor shall update electronic file submissions to reflect all modifications. For additional items or SINs, the Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's approval before transmitting changes. Contract modifications will not be made effective until the Government receives the electronic file updates. The Contractor may transmit price reductions, item deletions, and corrections without prior approval. However, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer as set forth in the Price Reductions clause at 552.238-75. (e) Amendments to Paper Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists. (1) The Contractor must provide supplements to its paper price lists, reflecting the most current changes. The Contractor may either: (i) Distribute a supplemental paper Federal Supply Schedule Price List within 15 workdays after the effective date of each modification. (ii) Distribute quarterly cumulative supplements. The period covered by a cumulative supplement is at the discretion of the Contractor, but may not exceed three calendar months from the effective date of the earliest modification. For example, if the first modification occurs in February, the quarterly supplement must cover February--April, and every 3 month period after. The Contractor must distribute each quarterly cumulative supplement within 15 workdays from the last day of the calendar quarter. (2) At a minimum, the Contractor shall distribute each supplement to those ordering activities that previously received the basic document. In addition, the Contractor shall submit two copies of each supplement to the Contracting Officer and one copy to the FSS Schedule Information Center. (f) Electronic submission of modification requests via eMod is mandatory via http://eOffer.gsa.gov, unless otherwise stated in the electronic submission standards and requirements at the Vendor Support Center website (http://vsc.gsa.gov). If the electronic submissions standards and requirements information is updated at the Vendor Support Center website, Contractors will be notified prior to the effective date of the change.

552.246-73
552.246-73 WARRANTY--MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE (MAR 2000)
(a) Applicable to domestic locations. Unless specified otherwise in this contract, the Contractor's standard commercial warranty as stated in the Contractor's commercial price list applies to this contract. (b) Applicable to overseas destinations. Unless specified otherwise in this contract, the Contractor's standard commercial warranty as stated in the commercial price list applies to this contract, except as follows: (1) The Contractor must provide, at a minimum, a warranty on all non-consumable parts for a period of 90 days from the date that the Government accepts the product.

Page: 95 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(2) The Contractor must supply parts and labor required under the warranty provisions free of charge. (3) The Contractor must bear the transportation costs of returning the products to and from the repair facility, or the costs involved with Contractor personnel traveling to the Government facility for the purpose of repairing the product onsite, during the 90 day warranty period.

C-FSS-412
C-FSS-412 CHARACTERISTICS OF ELECTRIC CURRENT (MAY 2000)
Contractors supplying equipment which uses electrical current are required to supply equipment suitable for the electrical system at the location at which the equipment is to be used as specified on the order.

Note: Regulation C-FSS-412 Applies to contract proposals for INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

D-FSS-471
D-FSS-471 MARKING AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS PER SHIPMENT (APR 1984)
It shall be the responsibility of the Ordering Office to determine the full marking and documentation requirements necessary under the various methods of shipment authorized by the contract. Set forth below is the minimum information and documentation that will be required for shipment. In the event the Ordering Office fails to provide the essential information and documentation, the Contractor shall, within three days after receipt of order, contact the Ordering Office and advise them accordingly. The Contractor shall not proceed with any shipment requiring transshipment via U.S. Government facilities without the below stated prerequisites: Direct Shipments. The Contractor shall mark all items ordered against this contract with indelible ink, paint or fluid, as follows: (1) Traffic Management or Transportation Officer at FINAL destination. (2) Ordering Supply Account Number. (3) Account number. (4) Delivery Order or Purchase Order Number. (5) National Stock Number, if applicable; or Contractor's item number. (6) Box ________ of ________ Boxes. (7) Nomenclature (brief description of items).

Note: Regulation D-FSS-471 Applies to contract proposals for INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

D-FSS-477

Page: 96 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

D-FSS-477 TRANSSHIPMENTS (APR 1984)
The Contractor shall complete TWO DD Forms 1387, Military Shipment Labels and, if applicable, four copies of DD Form 1387-2, Special Handling/Data Certification--used when shipping chemicals, dangerous cargo, etc. Two copies of the DD Form 1387 will be attached to EACH shipping container delivered to the port Transportation Officer for subsequent transshipment by the Government as otherwise provided for under the terms of this contract. These forms will be attached to one end and one side (NOT on the top or bottom) of the container. The Contractor will complete the bottom line of these forms, which pertains to the number of pieces, weight and cube of each piece, using U.S. weight and cubic measures. Weights will be rounded off to the nearest pound. (One kg = 2.2 U.S. pounds; one cubic meter = 35.3156 cubic feet.) In addition, if the cargo consists of chemicals, or is dangerous, one copy of the DD Form 1387 2 will be attached to the container, and three copies will be furnished to the Transportation Officer with the Bill of Lading. DANGEROUS CARGO WILL NOT BE INTERMINGLED WITH NONDANGEROUS CARGO IN THE SAME CONTAINER. Copies of the above forms, and preparation instructions will be obtained from the Ordering Office issuing the Delivery Order. Reproduced copies of the forms are acceptable. FAILURE TO INCLUDE DD FORMS 1387 (AND DD FORM 1387-2, IF APPLICABLE) ON EACH SHIPPING CONTAINER WILL RESULT IN REJECTION OF SHIPMENT BY THE PORT TRANSPORTATION OFFICER.

Note: Regulation D-FSS-477 Applies to contracts for INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

I-FSS-314
I-FSS-314 FOREIGN TAXES AND DUTIES (DEC 1990)
Prices offered must be net, delivered, f.o.b. to the destinations accepted by the Government. (a) The offeror warrants that such prices do not include any tax, duty, customs fees, or other foreign Governmental costs, assessments, or similar charges from which the U.S. Government is exempt. The offeror further warrants that any applicable taxes duties, customs fees, other Government costs, assessments or similar charges from which the U.S. Government is not exempt are included in the prices quoted and that such prices are not subject to increases for any such charges applicable at the time of acceptance of this offer by the Government. (b) Standard commercial export packaging, including containerization, if necessary, packaging, preservation, marking are included in the pricing offered and accepted by the Government.

Note: Regulation I-FSS-314 Applies to contracts for INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

I-FSS-594
I-FSS-594 PARTS AND SERVICE (OCT 1988)
(1) For equipment under items listed in the schedule of items or services on which offers are submitted, the offeror certifies by submission of this offer that parts and services (including the performing of warranty or guarantee service) are now available from dealers or distributors serving the areas of ultimate overseas destination or that such facilities will be established and will be maintained throughout the contract period. If a new servicing facility is to be established, the facility shall be established no later than the beginning of the contract period. (2) Each Contractor shall be fully responsible for the services to be performed by the named servicing facilities, or by such facilities to be established, and fully guarantees performance of such services if the

Page: 97 of 98

REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

original service proves unsatisfactory. (3) Offerors are requested to include in the pricelist, the names and addresses of all supply and service points maintained in the geographic area in which the Contractor will perform. Please indicate opposite each point whether or not a complete stock of repair parts for items offered is carried at that point, and whether or not mechanical service is available. GEOGRAPHIC AREA ADDRESS OF SUPPLY AND SERVICE POINT

It is desired to have available means for maintaining Government-owned items in satisfactory operating condition and to receive service at least as good as that extended to commercial customers.

Page: 98 of 98

NOTICE:   The GSA Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) program has recently experienced a tremendous increase in new offers. Due to the large number of new offers currently in process, it could take up to several months before your offer is evaluated. 

 

GSA's practice is to evaluate offers in the order in which they are received. However, GSA may give priority to processing certain offers when circumstances dictate, such as when a federal agency Contracting Officer specifically requests an expedited offer review in order to meet a pending requirement that will be procured under the MAS program, or when there is a need for GSA to bring strategically critical new products or services to market in order to meet federal customer needs.



The information in this document is provided to assist you in preparing a quality offer in response to the Solicitation.



Do not alter the solicitation or required attachments (CSP-1, Summary of Offer, etc.) in any manner.  Any changes, deletions, or additions to the document, other than required fill-in information, may result in the rejection of the offer.  



NOTE: All paper offers will be rejected as non-responsive.  Paper copies of rejected offers will not be returned to the offeror.  All Schedules are mandatory eOffer schedules.



Your offer must be submitted electronically via the e-Offer website (). 



By using the e-Offer system, submitting a signed copy of the SF1449 is NOT necessary due to the digital certificate required to submit an e-Offer.  All other documents, including but not limited to Letter of Supply, Agent Authorization, and Subcontracting Plan requiring signature must be signed and dated before uploading to the eOffer system.



Offerors must obtain a Level 3 Digital Authentication Certificate in order to access the eOffer system.  In order to facilitate the timely processing of your offer and administration of the resultant contract, it is highly recommend that you have at least two (2) persons with digital certificates listed as Authorized Negotiators in your offer and authorized to sign, at least one of which is an employee of the offering company.  For information and instructions on obtaining digital certificates, visit the eOffer website ().   Include a ‘screen shot’ or copy of the digital certificates with your offer.



In order to fully evaluate your offer, all elements of the solicitation must be completed.  You should pay close attention to the requirements noted below.  Failure to provide any element of these requirements may result in rejection of your offer as substantially incomplete or insufficient to evaluate.



 – this site links you to all sites prospective Offerorss might need (SAM, e-SRS, FedBizOpps).



Before submitting your e-offer:





Complete the mandatory ‘Readiness Assessment” free self evaluation, available on the Vendor Support Center website at .  From the VSC home page, click on ‘Toolbox’ in the upper left corner and complete the Research, Analyze, and Decide modules.  The Decide module contains a questionnaire that must be completed by an officer of the company (President, VP, CEO, CFO, etc.) and must be submitted with your offer. 

Complete the free registration with System for Award Management (SAM.gov) in its entirety. The information is current, accurate, and complete, and reflects the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code(s) for this solicitation. The web address for SAM is .  Offers will be rejected if the System for Award Management (SAM) not been completed or has expired.



Obtain an Open Ratings report.  You must provide the required Open Ratings report with the initial submission of your offer.  You may go on line at  to obtain your Open Ratings report.  An offer submitted without a current Open Ratings report will be rejected as non-responsive.  An Open Ratings report is considered current for 1 (one) year from the date of issuance. See the Past Performance Evaluation attachment to this solicitation for additional information. 



Offerors must submit a copy of the certificate signifying that one of its current employees who is listed in the authorized negotiator section, has completed the “Pathway to Success” training within the past year.  “Pathway to Success” training is available through the Vendor Support Center website at .  Click on the tab “Training” to access this free, web-based training.  The training session is less than two hours total and covers the major factors your organization should consider prior to submitting an offer to GSA.  NOTE:  “Pathway to Success” training certifications will not be accepted from Consultants or Agents completing the training on behalf of their clients.  



When submitting your offer, the following requirements must be met: 



Complete and submit all required and optional documents.  The SF 1449 will be auto-generated by the system based on information you enter into the eOffer system; it is not necessary to upload an additional copy.  Upload documents under the appropriate File Label in the eOffer system (e.g. upload your Commercial Pricelist under the File Label of Commercial Pricelist; upload your Open Ratings PPE under the File Label of Past Performance Evaluation Reports; etc.).  Note: Any documents that are specified in this Information and Instructions to offerors document as required (such as the Pathways to Success certificate), but are not defined by a file label in the eOffer system should be uploaded using the file label ‘Other (optional-offeror defined)’.



Complete CSP-1 – Commercial Sales Practices, which is an attachment to the solicitation, in accordance with the instructions provided with the clause, in its entirety. Additionally, you must provide a copy of the Commercial Pricelist in effect during the period for which you reported commercial sales on the CSP-1 form.   Failure to provide the completed CSP-1 may result in rejection of the offer as non-responsive.  



Provide your current Commercial Pricelist. This is the pricelist you provide your commercial customers, and NOT a GSA price list or price proposal.  This price list must reflect the company name and/or logo and must have an effective date.  This price list should not have any reference to GSA other than to have the applicable Special Item Number (SIN) annotated by the offered items.



If special catalogs or price lists are printed for the purpose of this offer, such descriptive catalogs or price lists shall include a statement indicating the special catalog or price list represents a verbatim extract from the contractor’s commercial catalog and/or price list, and identify the descriptive catalog and/or price list from which the information has been extracted.



Provide discount information to include the basic and/or quantity/volume discount offered from your commercial pricing in accordance with Clause 552.212-70 Preparation of Offer located in the solicitation document.  See the Discount Proposal Spreadsheet attachment for required information.



Complete the Solicitation attachment titled Summary of Offer document and upload it with your offer.



If you are not the manufacturer of the product(s) you are offering, an acceptable Letter of Commitment/Supply must be provided.  See Clause I-FSS-644 – Dealers and Suppliers in the Basic Solicitation and the letter requirements.  Failure to provide acceptable Letters of Commitment/Supply may result in rejection of the offer as non-responsive.  See Letter of Supply template for required language.



Any products offered must comply with the Trade Agreements Act (TAA).  It is the responsibility of the offerors to determine TAA compliance.  When an item consists of components from various countries and the components are assembled in an additional country, the test to determine country of origin is “substantial transformation” (reference FAR 25.001(c)).  Offerors can go to The Office of Regulations and Rulings within U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which is the Federal Agency responsible for making substantial transformation determinations.  CBP’s determinations or opinions are based upon tariff laws.  The offeror may also request an opinion from a third party expert or make the determination himself.  The internet address for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection is: .  Reference 19 CFR 177.23.  Offerors should keep this in mind when completing the TAA certification section of the SAM registration.  When evaluating offers, the Contracting Officer will rely solely on the representations and certifications of the offeror and will not make substantial transformation determinations.  



In accordance with FAR 4.102(e), you must provide an Agent Authorization Letter if you have authorized an Agent/Consultant to act on your behalf. See the Agent Authorization Letter template attachment.



If you are classified as other than small business (or are owned by or affiliated with a large business), your offer will be valued in excess of $650,000 for the basic contract period.  Therefore, a Small Business Subcontracting Plan MUST be submitted with your offer.  See the Small Business Subcontracting Plan attachment for a sample format for the plan.  Failure to provide an acceptable Subcontracting Plan (if required) may result in rejection of the offer as non-responsive.  


If you are offering services subject to the Service Contract Act or Professional Services under this solicitation, carefully review the Corporate and Project Experience attachment as well as any applicable schedule specific technical evaluation requirements and provide the information required therein.  Offerors for all types of services under this solicitation are expected to have at least two (2) years of Corporate and Project Experience and Relevant Experience (may be greater than 2 years depending on the Special Item Number offered).  Failure to provide evidence of the required Corporate Experience or Relevant Project Experience may result in rejection of your offer as non-responsive. 



If you have had a previous Schedule contract cancelled or allowed to expire for low sales, you must submit a marketing plan detailing the steps you plan to take to generate sales through a new GSA schedule contract.  A new offer for your company will not be considered until 12 months have lapsed from the effective date of the cancellation or expiration of the previous contract.  Any offer submitted prior to the completion of the 12 month period will be rejected. 







General Information:



Berry Amendment – Resultant contracts include all types of commercial items and services.  Please be aware that due to the requirements of the Berry Amendment, Department of Defense (DOD) customers may not be able to place orders for items not in compliance with the Berry Amendment.  However, any item offered under a Schedule must comply with the Trade Agreements Act (TAA).



Defense Base Act – Notice to Offerors – Please be advised orders issued by DOD may include the requirement for Defense Base Act insurance as addressed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 28.305.  This requirement shall be addressed in a separate open- market line item on the order and the invoice.  Pricing for this additional requirement will be between the contractor and the DOD ordering agency.



If SCA Services are offered, the SCA Wage Determinations for the major metropolitan areas are available at the following website:  .  Scroll down to “Selecting SCA Wage Determinations.”  Enter the State and County name and then click continue.  Click “No” to answer the next two questions, then the Wage Determination will be displayed.  Click “Printer Friendly Version” to print the Wage Determination.  The information on the website is updated as DOL issues changes to Wage Determinations.  



If you are offering products which require Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data Sheets, see Clause 52.223-3 in the Basic Solicitation.



Pursuant to Clause 552.238-74, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting (July 2003), the IFF is a separate collection mechanism and any increase or decrease in the fee does not change the price/discount relationship established at the time of award pursuant to 552.238-75, Price Reductions (May 2004)(Alt I May 2003).  



The IFF is a separate collection mechanism.  The discounts and pricing you offer to the Government may not include the IFF.  The IFF shall be added to the net GSA price.  Discounted price divided by .9925 equals the final GSA Advantage price.



If allowable under a specific Schedule and contractors accept trade-ins, the products may be considered for award under any resultant contract.  It will be the responsibility of the ordering agency to determine fair and reasonableness of price/off-set.



All successful offerors must accept payment by Government Credit Card for oral or written delivery orders equal to or less than the micro-purchase threshold in accordance with Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-125.  As of the date of this solicitation refresh, the micro-purchase threshold is $3,000.



Any resultant contract may be cancelled unless reported contract sales are at least $25,000 for the first 24 month period after initial contract award and $25,000 for each 12-month period thereafter.  See clause 552.238-73, Cancellation and I-FSS-639, Contract Sales Criteria.



Offerors are advised to review clause 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items.



An individual product (item) may be offered only under one SIN even though it may have multiple applications.



Visit the Ability One website at  for a listing of AbilityOne directed source items. If items being offered are essentially the same, they must be excluded from the offer. Offerors under Schedule 51 V, see attachment titled Critical Information for Schedule 51 V for additional requirements. 



Please be aware that a financial responsibility determination will be completed on your firm.  Please ensure that your Dun and Bradstreet information is up to date.  Financial documentation (Income Statement and Balance Sheet) from your firm’s last 2 fiscal years must be submitted (if applicable; see Critical Information Specific to Schedule 36). 



See attachment entitled "Critical Information Specific to Schedule 36".  Thoroughly read the attachment for additional critical information and requirements specific to the Schedule under which you are submitting your offer.  





Submission of Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) Documents - Vendor Checklist





Failure to meet these requirements will result in an offer rejection as non-responsive.



Check if completed

The following are to be completed and included:

Reference



Readiness Assessment 

See Above



Pathways to Success Certificate

See Above



Summary of Offer 

See Attachment



Commercial Sales Practices Format (CSP-1)

See Attachment



Discount Proposal Spreadsheet

See Attachment



Open Ratings Past Performance Evaluation Report (PPER) (within 1 year)

See Attachment



Current Commercial Price list and/or Catalog(s)  

See clause 552.212-70, Preparation of Offers



Letters of Supply (If offeror is a dealer)

See clause I-FSS-644 and exhibits with Letter of Supply Template



Subcontracting Plan (If offeror is an other than small  business)

See clause 552.219-71 and attachment with Small Business Sub Contracting Plan



System for Award Management (SAM)

See Above



Financial Information

See Above



Technical Response (if applicable)

See Technical Requirements Attachment



Agent Authorization Letter (if applicable)

See Attachment



Digital Certificate Screenshots

See AboveLetter of Supply Template* – Offerors/Contractors – this is the approved GSA format for Letters of Supply – please forward this to your supplier with the appropriate Solicitation number (if this is for a new offer) or contract number (if this is for adding a new product line or an extension)

[Submitted on Supplier Letterhead]  



[Date (must be within 12 months of offer submittal)]



[Supplier Name**]

[Supplier Point of Contact (POC)]

[Address]



Re:  Letter of Supply



Dear [Offeror POC], 



This Letter of Supply is in reference to the offer that [Offeror Name] submitted in response to the General Services Administration’s Solicitation/Contract [enter Solicitation Number if a new offer, or Contract number if an existing contract].



In the event that [Offeror Name] is awarded a Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) contract under the aforementioned solicitation number, [Supplier Name] will assure an uninterrupted source of supply, with sufficient quantities of product, for the duration of the contract period.



[Supplier Name] understands that all products and services that are offered on MAS contracts must be compliant with the Trade Agreements Act (TAA) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq.)  As such, all products supplied by [Supplier Name] to [Offeror Name] will be TAA compliant.  You will be notified immediately upon discovery of any changes in the Country of Origin of supplied products.



EPA/CPG:

[Supplier Name] understands that if they certify that the products being supplied meet or exceed the minimum content levels established under the Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPGs)*** program then they must furnish [Offeror Name] proof in the form of a copy of the certification from the manufacturer or a copy of the environmental organization’s certification in order for [Offeror Name] to be allowed to display the appropriate environmental attributes on their GSA contract.  The percentage of the recovered materials and post-consumer materials must also be provided to the offeror/contractor.



[Supplier Name] understands that if no proof of the environmental attributes being claimed is provided then the offeror will not be allowed to display the applicable environmental attribute icon.





The person whose signature appears below is authorized to make the commitments noted above.



Sincerely,



[Signed by a company official authorized to make the commitment]



*The above is a mandatory template and will constitute the first page of the Letter of Supply.  Although the content of the template is sufficient, Suppliers may attach additional verbiage in subsequent pages as long as the verbiage does not contradict the statements made above.

**Please note that "Supplier" name is synonymous with "Manufacturer" and/or "Distributor."

*** The EPA maintains a list of EPA-designated products in their CPGs to provide Federal agencies purchasing recommendations on specific products in several Recovered Materials Advisory Notices (RMANs).  Each RMAN contains recommended recovered and post-consumer material content levels for the specific products designated by EPA (40 CFR part 247 and EO 13423: Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management).  Visit the CPG web site at  to view the current list of products that must comply with Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPGs).  Also, CPG supporting documentations and background information (such as RMANs) can be found at .
                                                     COVER PAGE TO MODEL SUBCONTRACTING PLAN

Notice to Offerors:  GSA provides this model plan as a tool.  You must adapt this model plan to fit your subcontracting situation.  The plan is
NOT a fill-in-the-blank form and you must remove instructional language.  This model does not establish minimum requirements for an acceptable
plan.  The model reflects objectives GSA encourages contractors to adopt.  GSA expects offerors to thoroughly review the requirements set forth
in FAR 19.704, Subcontracting Plan Requirements and FAR clause 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan before submitting their
subcontracting plans.

Definitions of Types of Plans:

______ COMMERCIAL PLAN:  Covers the offeror’s fiscal year and applies to the entire production of commercial items sold by either the entire
company or a portion thereof (e.g., division, plant, or product line.)  Note that this type of plan shall relate to the offeror’s planned
subcontracting generally, for both commercial and government business, rather than solely to the government contract.  Per FAR 19.704(d) and
clause 52.219-9(g), this is the preferred type of plan for contractors furnishing commercial items. Once a contractor’s commercial plan has
been approved, the Government shall not require another subcontracting plan from the same contractor while the plan remains in effect, as long
as the product or service being provided by the contractor continues to meet the definition of a commercial item.  The contractor shall—  (1)
Submit the commercial plan to either the first contracting officer awarding a contract subject to the plan during the contractor’s fiscal year,
or, if the contractor has ongoing contracts with commercial plans, to the contracting officer responsible for the contract with the latest
completion date. The contracting officer shall negotiate the commercial plan for the Government. The approved commercial plan shall remain in
effect during the contractor’s fiscal year for all Government contracts in effect during that period; (2) Submit a new commercial plan, 30
working days before the end of the Contractor’s fiscal year, to the contracting officer responsible for the uncompleted Government contract
with the latest completion date. The contractor must provide to each contracting officer responsible for an ongoing contract subject to the
plan, the identity of the contracting officer that will be negotiating the new plan; (3) When the new commercial plan is approved, provide a
copy of the approved plan to each contracting officer responsible for an ongoing contract that is subject to the plan; and (4) Comply with the
reporting requirements stated in paragraph (a)(10) of this section by submitting one SSR in eSRS, for all contracts covered by its commercial
plan. This report will be acknowledged or rejected in eSRS by the contracting officer who approved the plan. The report shall be submitted
within 30 days after the end of the Government’s fiscal year.

______ INDIVIDUAL CONTRACT PLAN:  Covers the entire contract period, applies to a specific contract, and has goals that are based on the
offeror’s planned subcontracting (and purchasing) in support of the specific contract, except that indirect costs incurred for common or joint
purposes may be allocated on a prorated basis to the contract.  For contracts with option periods, the plan will include separate goals and
estimated value (or sales) for the base period with separate goals and estimated value for each option period.  Per FAR 52.219-9(c) this type
of plan must separately address subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business (including ANCs and Indian Tribes), and women-owned small business
concerns, with a separate part for the basic contract and separate parts for each option (if any). The plan shall be included in and made a
part of the resultant contract. The subcontracting plan shall be negotiated within the time specified by the Contracting Officer. Failure to
submit and negotiate the subcontracting plan shall make the offeror ineligible for award of a contract.  The Contractor shall submit the
Individual Subcontract Report (ISR), and the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS)
(http://www.esrs.gov), following the instructions in the eSRS and in accordance with FAR clause 52.219-9.
______ MASTER PLAN:  Contains all the required elements of an individual contract plan, except goals, and may be incorporated into individual
contract plans, provided the master plan has been approved.  A master plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains all the elements,
except goals, may be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting plan required of the offeror by the clause 52.219-9; provided (1)
The master plan has been approved; (2) The offeror ensures that the master plan is updated as necessary and provides copies of the approved
master plan, including evidence of its approval, to the Contracting Officer; and (3) Goals and any deviations from the master plan deemed
necessary by the Contracting Officer to satisfy the requirements of this contract are set forth in the individual subcontracting plan. A
contract may have no more than one plan.  When a modification meets the criteria in FAR 19.702 for a plan, or an option is exercised, the goals
associated with the modification or option shall be added to those in the existing subcontracting plan.  The failure of the Contractor or
subcontractor to comply in good faith with the clause at FAR 52.219-8 or an approved plan required by FAR 52.219-9 shall be a material breach of
the contract.  The Contractor shall submit the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR), and the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) using the
Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) (http://www.esrs.gov), following the instructions in the eSRS and in accordance with FAR
clause 52.219-9.


                                                GSA SUBCONTRACTING GOALS (How to do the math tips)

Subcontracting goals are subject to change, based on recent achievement levels and as negotiated with the Small Business Administration (SBA).
SBA is responsible for the Federal Government Goaling Program and their website at www.sba.gov includes details and background on the goaling
process.

 • Total estimated subcontracting dollars (or spend) planned to all types of business concerns must be provided, then separately state the
   dollars that will be subcontracted to each category.  All percents for each category will be expressed as a percentage of the total
   subcontracting dollars to all concerns (both large and small)*.

 • The Small business dollar amount must include all sub-group category amounts; i.e., HUBZone, SDB, WOSB, VOSB, SDVOSB (plus any "other small"
   businesses that do not fall within one of these specified subgroups). Again note that Alaskan Native Corporations (ANCs) and Indian tribes
   will be included in the SDB and total small amounts.

*Only the large plus all small should equal the total in both dollars and percents.  Do not add together subgroups to reach the total Small
figure, as the same dollars can be double and triple counted for each group as applicable to the company receiving the order.
            Sample Dollars                 GSA Goal (FY 2010-11)
      Total dollars to be subcontracted      $1,000,000                   100%
          (to both Large and Small Businesses)
      *To Large Businesses        $  700,000*                  *70%
      *To all Small Businesses          $  300,000*                       *30%
          (includes HUBZone Small, Small Disadvantaged,
      Women-Owned Small, Veteran-Owned Small, Service-Disabled
      Veteran-Owned Small, and Other Small Business Concerns)

      To HUBZone Small Businesses      $    30,000                3%
      To Small Disadvantaged Businesses      $    50,000                5%
      To Women-Owned Small Businesses        $    50,000                5%
      To Veteran-Owned Small Businesses      $    30,000                3%
                  (includes SDVOSB below in this total)
      To Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses      $    30,000                3%


NOTE:  The total $300,000 to all Small businesses already includes each subgroup (HUBZone, SDB, ANCs, WOSB, VOSB, and SDVOSB), plus other small
businesses that are only small and do not fall into a specified category.

                                                 PLEASE REMOVE THE COVER PAGES BEFORE SUBMITTING
                                                          THE SUBCONTRACTING PLAN TO GSA
Template:  July 2011

                                                              [INSERT COMPANY NAME]


                                                    SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (MODEL)


I.    IDENTIFICATION DATA:

Address: _________________________________________________________________________
Date Prepared: ____________________________________________________________________
Description of Supplies/Services: _____________________________________________________
Solicitation Number: (Completed for Individual Plans; N/A for commercial plans)_______________
Contract Number: (Completed for Individual Plans during option period; N/A for commercial plans)


If submitting an Individual Contract Plan, insert dates below for the contract duration, if known (or insert N/A if the contract does not
include specified option period).

Individual Plan Period:  Base: (Date of Award thru ??  years)    Option 1: (1 year, 5 years, etc.)
Option 2: (1 year, 5 years, etc.)    Option 3: (1 year, 5 years, etc.)     Option 4: (1 year, 5 years, etc.)

Estimated Contract Value (Provide separate estimate for base contract period and each option)
Base Period: $____________ Option Period 1: $____________ Option Period 2: $____________
Option Period 3: $____________ Option Period 4: $____________ (if applicable/Not used for MAS)

Place of Performance: ________________________________________________
DUNS Number:  (under the contract awarded or pending award)


If submitting a Commercial Plan, insert dates below:

Commercial Plan Period:  (insert fiscal year for contractor/offeror)
Projected annual sales (Company-wide):  $__________________


II.   TYPE OF PLAN – FAR 19.701 (For definitions, see Cover Page and FAR clause 52.219-9):

_____Commercial Plan

_____Individual Plan

_____Master Plan (incorporated into Individual Plan)

III.  GOALS:

A. The FAR clause at 52.219-9(d) states that the subcontracting plan shall include (1) goals, expressed in terms of percentages of total planned
subcontracting dollars, for the use of small business concerns as subcontractors; and (2) A statement of total dollars planned to be
subcontracted for an individual contract plan; or the offeror’s total projected sales, expressed in dollars, and the total value of projected
subcontracts to support the sales for a commercial plan.  FAR 19.704(a)(1) requires separate percentage goals for using small business
(including Alaskan Native Corporations (ANCs) and Indian tribes), veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business,
HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business (including ANCs and Indian tribes) and women-owned small business concerns as
subcontractors; and (2) A statement of the total dollars planned to be subcontracted and a statement of the total dollars planned to be
subcontracted to small business (including ANCs and Indian tribes), veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business,
HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business (including ANCs and Indian tribes) and women-owned small business concerns. Commercial
plans will always reflect annual company wide goals.  Individual plans will reflect contract-specific goals and shall contain separate
statements and goals for the basic contract (period) and separately for each option (period).  Note that dollars and percentages to large and
total small businesses (all inclusive) must equal the total subcontracted to all categories in both dollars and percentages.  EACH CONTRACTOR IS
EXPECTED TO OFFER THE MAXIMUM PRACTICABLE OPPORTUNITIES TO EACH TYPE OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN CONSISTENT WITH THEIR BEST FAITH EFFORTS AND
SUPPORTED BY THEIR REPORTS AND RECORDS.


COMPLETE FORMAT BELOW IF SUBMITTING AN INDIVIDUAL PLAN and note that a separate part is required for the base contract period and for each
option period, if any.  (Please remove this section and following page if submitting a commercial plan.)


[Company Name] provides the following separate dollar and percentage goals, which are a percentage of the total subcontracting dollars for each
business category:

|BASE GOALS are expressed in dollars and percentages of the total dollars planned to be subcontracted.                                                |
| PLANNED SUBCONTRACTING TO:                                                                               |DOLLARS             |PERCENT             |
|1. Total Dollars to be Subcontracted (2 + 3 = 1) large and all small                                      |                    |100%                |
|businesses must equal total amount to be subcontracted (both $ and %)                                     |                    |                    |
|2. Large Businesses (Other than Small)                                                                    |                    |                    |
|3. All Small Businesses (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                                  |                    |                    |
|4. Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB)                                                                  |                    |                    |
|5. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB)                                               |                    |                    |
|6. HUBZone Small Business (HUBZone)                                                                       |                    |                    |
|7. Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                  |                    |                    |
|8. Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSB)                                                                    |                    |                    |

If applicable:

|1ST OPTION GOALS are expressed in dollars and percentages of total dollars planned to be subcontracted.                                              |
| PLANNED SUBCONTRACTING TO:                                                                               |DOLLARS             |PERCENT             |
|1. Total Dollars to be Subcontracted (2 + 3 = 1) large and all small                                      |                    |100%                |
|businesses must equal total amount to be subcontracted (both $ and %)                                     |                    |                    |
|2. Large Businesses (Other than Small)                                                                    |                    |                    |
|3. All Small Businesses (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                                  |                    |                    |
|4. Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB)                                                                  |                    |                    |
|5. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB)                                               |                    |                    |
|6. HUBZone Small Business (HUBZone)                                                                       |                    |                    |
|7. Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                  |                    |                    |
|8. Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSB)                                                                    |                    |                    |


If applicable:

|2ND OPTION GOALS are expressed in dollars and percentages of total dollars planned to be subcontracted.                                              |
| PLANNED SUBCONTRACTING TO:                                                                               |DOLLARS             |PERCENT             |
|1. Total Dollars to be Subcontracted (2 + 3 = 1) large and all small                                      |                    |100%                |
|businesses must equal total amount to be subcontracted (both $ and %)                                     |                    |                    |
|2. Large Businesses (Other than Small)                                                                    |                    |                    |
|3. All Small Businesses (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                                  |                    |                    |
|4. Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB)                                                                  |                    |                    |
|5. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB)                                               |                    |                    |
|6. HUBZone Small Business (HUBZone)                                                                       |                    |                    |
|7. Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                  |                    |                    |
|8. Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSB)                                                                    |                    |                    |

If applicable:

|3ND OPTION GOALS are expressed in dollars and percentages of total dollars planned to be subcontracted.                                              |
| PLANNED SUBCONTRACTING TO:                                                                               |DOLLARS             |PERCENT             |
|1. Total Dollars to be Subcontracted (2 + 3 = 1) large and all small                                      |                    |100%                |
|businesses must equal total amount to be subcontracted (both $ and %)                                     |                    |                    |
|2. Large Businesses (Other than Small)                                                                    |                    |                    |
|3. All Small Businesses (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                                  |                    |                    |
|4. Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB)                                                                  |                    |                    |
|5. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB)                                               |                    |                    |
|6. HUBZone Small Business (HUBZone)                                                                       |                    |                    |
|7. Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                  |                    |                    |
|8. Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSB)                                                                    |                    |                    |


If applicable: (LEAVE BLANK FOR MAS)

|4TH OPTION GOALS are expressed in dollars and percentages of total dollars planned to be subcontracted.                                              |
| PLANNED SUBCONTRACTING TO:                                                                               |DOLLARS             |PERCENT             |
|1. Total Dollars to be Subcontracted (2 + 3 = 1) large and all small                                      |                    |100%                |
|businesses must equal total amount to be subcontracted (both $ and %)                                     |                    |                    |
|2. Large Businesses (Other than Small)                                                                    |                    |                    |
|3. All Small Businesses (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                                  |                    |                    |
|4. Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB)                                                                  |                    |                    |
|5. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB)                                               |                    |                    |
|6. HUBZone Small Business (HUBZone)                                                                       |                    |                    |
|7. Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) (including ANCs & Indian tribes)                                  |                    |                    |
|8. Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSB)                                                                    |                    |                    |


COMPLETE FORMAT BELOW IF SUBMITTING A COMMERCIAL PLAN (please remove this page/section if submitting an individual plan).


1. Estimated TOTAL dollars planned to be subcontracted to all types of concerns (generally for both commercial and government business, in
support of commercial items sold during company fiscal year):

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $_________________ = 100% subcontracted




2. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to large business concerns (or classified as other than small):

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total




3. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to all small business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB
(including ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB small business concerns:

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total



4. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to veteran-owned small business concerns (including service-disabled veteran-owned small
businesses):

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total




5. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns
    (subset of VOSB above and cannot be higher than #4 above):

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total



6. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to HUBZone small business concerns:

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total



7. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes):

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total




8. Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to women-owned small business concerns:

   Annual Commercial Purchases/Spend: $__________________ = ___ % of Total
B.  FAR 19.704(a)(3) and the clause at 52.219-9(d)(3) requires a description of the principal types of supplies and services to be subcontracted
and an identification of types planned for subcontracting to SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes),VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including ANCs
and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns.  Check all that apply below, ensuring that at least one item is indicated for each column.  If assistance
is needed to locate small business sources, contact your local Small Business Administration Commercial Market Representative via
www.sba.gov/localresources, or access the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) Dynamic Small Business Search database at www.ccr.gov.  You may
also post solicitations for small business opportunities on SBA’s SUB-Net at https://eweb1.sba.gov/subnet/search/index.cfm .


The principal types of supplies and/or services that [Company Name] anticipates to be subcontracted and the identification of the type of
business concern planned are as follows:


                                                            Business Category or Size



|Supplies/Services                                             |Large       |Small     |VOSB        |SDVOSB         |HUBZone           |SDB       |WOSB        |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |
|                                                              |            |          |            |               |                  |          |            |

ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF NECESSARY (OR REMOVE LINES IF NOT NEEDED)


C.  FAR 19.704(a)(4) and the clause at 52.219-9(d)(4) require a description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals.  Explain or
state the basis for establishing your proposed goals (i.e. based on historical data and experience, market research, etc.); and provide
justification for any low goal(s).

[Company Name] used the following method to develop the subcontracting goals:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________


D. FAR 19.704(a)(5) and clause 52.219-9(d)(5) require a description of the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes
(e.g., existing company source lists, the Central Contractor Registration database (CCR), veterans service organizations, the National Minority
Purchasing Council Vendor Information Service, the Research and Information Division of the Minority Business Development Agency in the
Department of Commerce, or small, HUBZone, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business trade associations).  A firm may rely on the
information contained in CCR as an accurate representation of a concern’s size and ownership characteristics for the purposes of maintaining SB,
VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB, and WOSB source list. Use of CCR as its source list does not relieve a firm of its responsibilities (e.g., outreach,
assistance, counseling, or publicizing subcontracting opportunities) in this clause.


[Company Name] identifies potential subcontractors using the following source lists and organizations:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________

E. FAR 19.704(a)(6) and clause 52.219-9(d)(6) require a statement as to whether or not the offeror included indirect costs in establishing
subcontracting goals, and a description of the method used to determine the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with SB
(including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns.  NOTE: indirect costs
represent the expenses of doing business that are NOT easily identified with a specific project (i.e. contract or grant) but are generally
recognized as ordinary and necessary for the general operation of the contractor’s organization and the conduct of activities it performs.
Types of indirect costs include overhead (e.g. facility/utility & supplies cost), general and administrative (G&A), and fringe benefits (e.g.
services or benefits provided to employees such as health insurance, payroll taxes, pension contribution, etc).

Indirect costs _____HAVE BEEN (or) _____HAVE NOT BEEN included in the dollar and percentage subcontracting goals stated above.

If indirect costs HAVE been included, the method used to determine the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with small business
concerns was as follows:
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________


IV.   PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR:


FAR 19.704(a)(7) and clause 52.219-9(d)(7) require the name of an individual employed by the offeror who will administer the offeror’s
subcontracting program, and a description of the duties of the individual.  Please add the contact information for this person (telephone
number, fax number and/or email address), in case of questions and provide an alternate point of contact if applicable.


Name: ____________________________________________________________________________
Title/Position: ______________________________________________________________________
Address: __________________________________________________________________________
City/State/Zip Code: _________________________________________________________________
Telephone number: __________________________________________________________________
Fax number: _______________________________________________________________________
Email Address: _____________________________________________________________________

Alternate POC with contact information: _________________________________________________


Duties:  In accordance with clause 52.219-9(d)(11)(e), in order to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with efficient
contract performance, the contractor shall perform the following functions:

1.  Assist SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns by arranging solicitations, time for the preparation of bids, quantities,
specifications, and delivery schedules so as to facilitate the participation by such concerns. Where the Contractor’s lists of potential SB,
VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB subcontractors are excessively long, reasonable effort shall be made to give all such small business
concerns an opportunity to compete over a period of time.


2.  Provide adequate and timely consideration of the potentialities of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns in all “make-or-buy”
decisions.


3.  Counsel and discuss subcontracting opportunities with representatives of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB firms.


4.  Confirm that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone small business concern is identified as a certified HUBZone small business
concern by accessing the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database or by contacting SBA.

5.  Provide notice to subcontractors concerning penalties and remedies for misrepresentations of business status as SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone,
SDB and WOSB for the purpose of obtaining a subcontract that is to be included as part or all of a goal contained in the Contractor’s
subcontracting plan.


6.  Develop and promote company/division policy statements that demonstrate the company’s/division’s support for awarding contracts and
subcontracts to SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns.

7.  Develop and maintain bidders’ lists of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns from all possible sources.

8.  Ensure periodic rotation of potential subcontractors on bidders’ lists.

9.  Ensure that SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns are included on the bidders’ list for every subcontract solicitation for
products and services they are capable of providing.

10.  Ensure that subcontract procurement “packages” are designed to permit the maximum possible participation of SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB
and WOSB concerns

11.  Review subcontract solicitations to remove statements, clauses, etc., which might tend to restrict or prohibit SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone,
SDB and WOSB concerns.

12.  Ensure that the subcontract bid proposal review board documents its reasons for not selecting any low bids submitted by SB, VOSB, SDVOSB,
HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns.

13.  Oversee the establishment and maintenance of contract and subcontract award records.

14.  Attend or arrange for the attendance of company counselors at Business Opportunity Workshops, Minority Business Enterprise Seminars, Trade
Fairs, etc.

15.  Directly or indirectly counsel SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB and WOSB concerns on subcontracting opportunities and how to prepare bids to
the company.

16.  Conduct or arrange training for purchasing personnel regarding the intent and impact of Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act on
purchasing procedures.

17.  Develop and maintain an incentive program for buyers that support the subcontracting program.

18.  Monitor the company’s performance and make any adjustments necessary to achieve the subcontract plan goals.

19.  Prepare and submit timely reports.

 20. Coordinate the company’s activities during compliance reviews by Federal agencies.


IF YOUR PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR WILL PERFORM ADDITIONAL SUBCONTRACTING DUTIES NOT SHOWN ABOVE, PLEASE IDENTIFY THEM HERE:

 21. Additional Duties:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________


V.    EQUITABLE OPPORTUNITY:


FAR 19.704(a)(8) and clause 52.219-9(d)(8) require a description of the efforts the offeror will make to assure that SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone,
SDB and WOSB concerns have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.


[Company Name] will make every effort to ensure that all small business concerns have an equitable opportunity to compete for subcontracts.
These efforts may include one or more of the following activities: (please indicate which of the following apply or adapt list to fit your
company’s efforts)

      A.  Outreach efforts to obtain sources:
      ___ Contacting minority and small business trade associations
      ___ Contacting business development organizations
      ___ Requesting sources from the Central Contractor Registration (CCR), Dynamic Small Business
              Search, which integrated data from the SBA PRO-Net database
      ___ Attending small and minority business trade fairs and procurement conferences

      B.  Internal efforts to guide and encourage purchasing personnel:
      ___ Presenting workshops, seminars and training programs
      ___ Establishing, maintaining and using small, hubzone small, small disadvantaged,
              women-owned small, veteran-owned small, and service-disabled veteran-owned small
              business source lists, guides, and other data for soliciting subcontracts
      ___ Monitoring activities to evaluate compliance with the subcontracting plan


      C.  Other Additional efforts:  (Please describe below.)
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________


VI.   ASSURANCES OF CLAUSE INCLUSION AND FLOW DOWN:

FAR 19.704(a)(9) and clause 52.219-9(d)(9) require assurances that the offeror will include the clause at 52.219-8, Utilization of Small
Business Concerns (see 19.708(a)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and that the offeror will require all
subcontractors (except small business concerns) that receive subcontracts in excess of $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) to adopt a plan
that complies with the requirements of  this clause (see 19.708(b)).

[Company Name] agrees to include the FAR Clause 52.219-8, “Utilization of Small Business Concerns” in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities, and will require all subcontractors (except small business concerns) that receive subcontracts in excess of
$650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction) to adopt a plan that complies with the requirements of the clause at 52.219-9, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan.

VII.  REPORTING AND COOPERATION:

FAR 19.704(a)(10) and clause 52.219-9(d)(10) require assurances that the offeror will do the following:

[Company Name] agrees to:
     (10)(i) Cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required;
      (ii) Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the extent of compliance by the offeror with the subcontracting plan;
      (iii) Submit the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR), and the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR) using the Electronic Subcontracting
Reporting System (eSRS) (http://www.esrs.gov), following the instructions in the eSRS;
      (iv) Ensure that its subcontractors with subcontracting plans agree to submit the ISR and/or the SSR using the eSRS;
      (v) Provide its prime contract number and its DUNS number and the e-mail address of the Government or Contractor official responsible for
acknowledging or rejecting the reports, to all first-tier subcontractors with subcontracting plans so they can enter this information into the
eSRS when submitting their reports; and
      (vi) Require that each subcontractor with a subcontracting plan provide the prime contract number and its own DUNS number, and the e-mail
address of the Government or Contractor official responsible for acknowledging or rejecting the reports, to its subcontractors with
subcontracting plans.

Reports are to be submitted within 30 days after the close of each calendar period as indicated in the following chart:
                                                         Submit Reports to eSRS
Calendar Period  Report Due       Date Due                with email address for:

10/01--03/31                      ISR                04/30                     Contracting Officer/SBTA
04/01--09/30                      ISR                10/30                     Contracting Officer/SBTA
10/01--09/30                      SSR          10/30                      Contracting Officer/SBTA


THE eSRS WEB-BASED REPORTING REQUIREMENT INSTRUCTIONS CAN BE FOUND IN THE ATTACHMENT TO SUBCONTRACTING PLAN TAKEN FROM FAR CLAUSE 52-219-9.


VIII. RECORDKEEPING:

FAR 19.704(a)(11) and clause 52.219-9(d)(11) require a description of the types of records that will be maintained concerning procedures that
have been adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the plan, including establishing source lists; and a description of the efforts
to locate SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns and award
subcontracts to them.

[Company Name] will maintain records concerning procedures that have been adopted to comply with the requirements and goals in the plan,
including establishing source lists; and a description of efforts to locate SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB
(including ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns and award subcontracts to them. The records shall include at least the following (on a
plant-wide or company-wide basis, unless otherwise indicated):

1. Source lists (e.g., CCR), guides, and other data that identify SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including
   ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns.

2. Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including
   ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns.

3. Records on each subcontract solicitation resulting in an award of more than $150,000, indicating:

        (A) Whether small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;
        (B) Whether veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;
        (C) Whether service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not,
               why not;
        (D) Whether HUBZone small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;
        (E) Whether small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;
        (F) Whether women-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not; and
        (G) If applicable, the reason award was not made to a small business concern.


4. Records of any outreach efforts to contact
        (A) Trade associations;
        (B) Business development organizations;
        (C) Conferences and trade fairs to locate small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and
               women-owned small business sources; and
        (D) Veterans service organizations.
5. Records of internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through
        (A) Workshops, seminars, training, etc.; and
        (B) Monitoring performance to evaluate compliance with the program’s requirements.

6. On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support award data submitted by the offeror to the Government, including the name, address, and
   business size of each subcontractor. Contractors having commercial plans need not comply with this requirement.


7. Other records to support your compliance with the subcontracting plan:  (Please describe below.)
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________


IX.   STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS (Found at FAR 19.702)

    ➢ Any contractor receiving a contract for more than the simplified acquisition threshold must agree in the contract that SB (including ANCs
      and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns will have the maximum practicable
      opportunity to participate in contract performance consistent with its efficient performance.
    ➢ It is further the policy of the United States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due
      pursuant to the terms of their subcontracts with SB (including ANCs and Indian tribes), VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone, SDB (including ANCs and
      Indian tribes), and WOSB concerns.
    ➢ See 19.702(a)(1) for requirements that are imposed in negotiated acquisitions, and (a)(2) for requirements that are imposed in sealed
      bidding acquisitions.
    ➢ As stated in 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(8), any contractor or subcontractor failing to comply in good faith with the requirements of the
      subcontracting plan is in material breach of its contract.  Further,
      15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F) directs that a contractor’s failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the requirements of the
      subcontracting plan shall result in the imposition of liquidated damages (see 19.702(c) and 19.705-7).


X.  DESCRIPTION OF GOOD FAITH EFFORT (Also refer to 13 CFR 125.3(d), Determination of
                                                                                         Good Faith Effort)

In order to demonstrate your compliance with a good faith effort to achieve the small business subcontracting goals, outline the steps below
that your company plans to take.

[Company Name] will take the following steps to demonstrate compliance with a good faith effort in achieving small business subcontracting
goals:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________

The above requirements will be negotiated with the contracting officer prior to approval.  The contracting officer must ensure per FAR 19.705-
5(a)(5) that an acceptable plan is incorporated into and made a material part of the contract.


SIGNATURE REQUIRED: Plan must be signed and dated by a company official.

This subcontracting plan was SUBMITTED by:

Signature: ____________________________________________________________________
Typed Name: __________________________________________________________________
Company Title: ________________________________________________________________
Date Signed:  __________________________________________________________________


Government Contracting Officer APPROVAL:

Signature: ____________________________________________________________________
Printed Name: _________________________________________________________________
Agency: ______________________________________________________________________
Date Signed: __________________________________________________________________












                                                      REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS FOR CONTRACTORS

Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System web-based reporting requirements found at FAR clause 52.219-9(l):

The Contractor shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at http://www.esrs.gov. Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision
that is an affiliate of the prime Contractor or subcontractor are not included in these reports. Subcontract award data reported by prime
Contractors and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for awards
made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small disadvantaged
business credit from an ANC or Indian tribe.

(1) ISR.  This report is not required for commercial plans. The report is required for each contract containing an individual subcontract plan
and shall be submitted to the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or Contracting Officer, if no ACO is assigned.

(i) The report shall be submitted semi-annually during contract performance for the periods ending March 31 and September 30. A report is also
required for each contract within 30 days of contract completion. Reports are due 30 days after the close of each reporting period, unless
otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer. Reports are required when due, regardless of whether there has been any subcontracting activity
since the inception of the contract or the previous reporting period.

(ii) When a subcontracting plan contains separate goals for the basic contract and each option, as prescribed by FAR 19.704(c), the dollar goal
inserted on this report shall be the sum of the base period through the current option; for example, for a report submitted after the second
option is exercised, the dollar goal would be the sum of the goals for the basic contract, the first option, and the second option.

(iii) The authority to acknowledge receipt or reject the ISR resides—
  (A) In the case of the prime Contractor, with the Contracting Officer; and
  (B) In the case of a subcontract with a subcontracting plan, with the entity that awarded the subcontract.

(2) SSR.
(i) Reports submitted under individual contract plans—
  (A) This report encompasses all subcontracting under prime contracts and subcontracts with the awarding agency, regardless of the dollar value
of the subcontracts.
  (B) The report may be submitted on a corporate, company or subdivision (e.g. plant or division operating as a separate profit center) basis,
unless otherwise directed by the agency.
  (C) If a prime Contractor and/or subcontractor is performing work for more than one executive agency, a separate report shall be submitted to
each executive agency covering only that agency’s contracts, provided at least one of that agency’s contracts is over $650,000 (over $1,500,000
for construction of a public facility) and contains a subcontracting plan. For DoD, a consolidated report shall be submitted for all contracts
awarded by military departments/agencies and/or subcontracts awarded by DoD prime Contractors. However, for construction and related maintenance
and repair, a separate report shall be submitted for each DoD component.
  (D) For DoD and NASA, the report shall be submitted semi-annually for the six months ending March 31 and the twelve months ending September
30. For civilian agencies, except NASA, it shall be submitted annually for the twelve month period ending September 30. Reports are due 30 days
after the close of each reporting period.
  (E) Subcontract awards that are related to work for more than one executive agency shall be appropriately allocated.
  (F) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs in eSRS, including SSRs submitted by subcontractors with subcontracting plans, resides with
the Government agency awarding the prime contracts.
(ii) Reports submitted under a commercial plan—
  (A) The report shall include all subcontract awards under the commercial plan in effect during the Government’s fiscal year.
  (B) The report shall be submitted annually, within thirty days after the end of the Government’s fiscal year.
  (C) If a Contractor has a commercial plan and is performing work for more than one executive agency, the Contractor shall specify the
percentage of dollars attributable to each agency from which contracts for commercial items were received.
  (D) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the Contracting Officer who approved the commercial plan.

(iii) All reports submitted at the close of each fiscal year (both individual and commercial plans) shall include a Year-End Supplementary
Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses. The report shall include subcontract awards, in whole dollars, to small disadvantaged business
concerns by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsector. If the data are not available when the year-end SSR is
submitted, the prime Contractor and/or subcontractor shall submit the Year-End Supplementary Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses within 90
days of submitting the year-end SSR. For a commercial plan, the Contractor may obtain from each of its subcontractors a predominant NAICS
Industry Subsector and report all awards to that subcontractor under its predominant NAICS Industry Subsector.


|Contracting Officer                                                                                                   (insert e-mail addresses)            |
|Small Business Technical Advisor                                    (email address for specific office/service/agency)                                     |
|Subcontracting Manager, Office of Small Business Utilization                                (janice.keys@gsa.gov                                           |
|or applicable alternate agency)                                                                                                                            |
|Small Business Administration Representative                                                                                                               |
|(found at www.sba.gov and enter business zip code to find local resources/POC for contractor’s location)                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                           |










Past Performance Evaluation





A PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CAN BE ORDERED AT: 



The following information is required to place an order:

	

YOUR COMPANY:

Duns Number



           Or



Company Name

Company Street Address

City, State, Zip code

Main Telephone Number

Contact Name

Email Address



YOUR COMPANY POINT OF CONTACT:

Contact Name

Email Address

YOUR CUSTOMER REFERENCES:

Company Name

Contact- First and Last Name

Phone Number

Email Address



A minimum of 6 customer references is required.  Open Ratings recommends that 15 customer references are given, but you may provide up to 20.  A “customer reference” is defined as a person or company that has purchased products or services from your company.  Vendor references are not accepted.



RECIPIENT INFORMATION:

First and Last Name

Email Address

Physical Address (IF EMAIL ADDRESS IS NOT AVAILABLE)



PAYMENT INFORMATION:

Amex, Mastercard or Visa Number

Expiration Date

Name as it appears on the credit card

Billing Address



QUESTIONS? 

PLEASE CALL 727-329-1184 OR EMAIL 


                                                                  READ ME FIRST
We appreciate your interest in the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) Program. Under the FSS Program, the General Services Administration and the
Department of Veterans Affairs (GSA/VA) establish long-term Governmentwide contracts with commercial firms to provide ordering activities with
access to a wide variety of commercial supplies and/or services. This letter provides pertinent background information on the FSS Program. You
should consider this information prior to deciding whether to submit an offer for an FSS contract. Please read this letter in its entirety to
learn about the benefits and responsibilities associated with being an FSS contractor. You will then be better informed to determine if
obtaining an FSS contract is the right business decision for your firm.
To help with the educational process on Multiple Award Schedules (MAS) GSA has designed a “Vendor Toolbox” in the Vendor Support Center which
will walk a supplier through researching, analyzing, and deciding whether it is the best business decision to pursue an MAS contract.  If the
supplier decides to become an offeror, it provides an understanding of the steps that need to be taken to be successful in the Federal
marketplace https://vsc.gsa.gov. Once on the VSC website, select the “Toolbox” tab which will take you to the “Vendor Toolbox.”  The FSS Program
is designed to enable ordering activities to purchase commercial supplies and/or services quickly, efficiently, at fair and reasonable prices
and still meet all the requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  The commercial supplies and/or services awarded under FSS
contracts are divided into approximately 32 distinct schedules.  In total, there are approximately 19,000 FSS contracts in place with more added
daily, covering over 11 million supplies and/or services.
AbilityOne Program
The AbilityOne Program is a federal procurement program that generates jobs for individuals who are blind or have another significant disability
through the manufacturing of products or the provision of services required by federal personnel.  Products and services on the AbilityOne
Procurement List are mandatory for use by federal customers.  The mandatory source requirement of the AbilityOne Program as outlined by the
Javits-Wagner-O’Day (JWOD) Act (41 U.S.C. 46 – 48c) must be adhered by all schedule holders.  Certain commercial products are considered
“essentially the same” (ETS) as AbilityOne products.  Because the AbilityOne products are mandatory purchases for federal customers, contractors
are required to remove the commercial ETS items from its offer.  If you offer products that are ETS as AbilityOne products, you are encouraged
to become an authorized distributor of AbilityOne products.  For more information on the AbilityOne Program and how to become an authorized
distributor, please visit www.abilityone.gov.  Point of contact at the AbilityOne Program is Mr. Eric Beale at ebeale@abilityone.gov or (703)
603-2119.
Becoming a successful FSS contractor requires that your company take a few key steps. The first step to success under the FSS Program is to
perform due diligence and understand your commitments and obligations as an FSS contractor. Companies that have prepared well, understand their
commitments and obligations, and have plans to meet those commitments and obligations have thrived under the FSS Program.

The next step is to select the schedule that best aligns to the commercial supplies and/or services your company wants to offer. This action can
be accomplished by accessing GSA eLibrary at www.gsaelibrary.gsa.gov. Under the "Schedules Contracts" box on the right, select "View Schedules
Contracts" to view the complete list of schedules. By clicking on any schedule number, you can then view the generic categories of supplies
and/or services under a particular schedule. For more information about GSA eLibrary, go to www.gsa.gov/elibrary. Detailed information on
selecting the schedule(s) that best aligns to your offering can be found in the “Vendor Toolbox” located at https://vsc.gsa.gov under the
“Toolbox” tab.
Once you have determined the proper schedule under which to submit your offer, the next step is to download, read, and understand the
solicitation. You may access this solicitation by clicking on "Vendors: Click here to view the current solicitation on FedBizOpps," which is
located on each individual schedule's page. It is essential to read the entire schedule solicitation. Understanding the terms and conditions of
an FSS contract and your contractual obligations is critical to your success as an FSS contract holder.
 You can also download the solicitation directly from FedBizOpps by accessing www.fedbizopps.gov. From the FedBizOpps website, you may search by
GSA Office, VA National Acquisition Center, Solicitation Number, or Keyword. We encourage you to visit both GSA eLibrary and FedBizOpps, since
each site provides important news and information.
 Please note that the award of an FSS contract does NOT guarantee future sales and it is up to you to market your company. Although the FSS
Program provides significant benefits to ordering activities, they are not required to use the FSS Program to fulfill their requirements. With
thousands of contracts already in place, competition for orders under the FSS Program is fierce.
 HOW TO DECIDE IF A FSS CONTRACT IS RIGHT FOR YOU
 First, take the mandatory "Pathway to Success" free education seminar and test. "Pathway to Success" is designed to assist prospective FSS
contractors in making informed business decisions as to whether obtaining an FSS contract is in their best interest. The presentation also
provides background information on the FSS Program. You may attend either a live presentation or complete the web based presentation. To
complete the seminar online, go to the Vendor Support Center (VSC) at https://vsc.gsa.gov. Once on the VSC website, select "Pathway to Success"
under the "Training" or the “Toolbox” tab.  Email pathwaytosuccess@gsa.gov to gain more information on how to attend a live presentation. The
seminar includes topics such as expectations of vendors, how to compete and succeed as a schedule contractor, how to develop a schedule-specific
business plan, and how to submit a quality offer.
Next, take the mandatory “Readiness Assessment” free self evaluation. The “Readiness Assessment” is designed to assist prospective offerors in
researching, analyzing, and deciding whether they are able to compete as an FSS contractor.  The mandatory “Readiness Assessment” is a
downloadable form that is in the VSC at https://vsc.gsa.gov and resides in the “Vendor Toolbox.”  Once on the VSC website, select the “Toolbox”
tab located between “Home” and “Getting on Advantage.”  This tool will help your firm understand the amount of time and money that is needed to
be a successful FSS contractor.  It is required that this assessment be signed by an officer of your firm who is authorized to commit and is
mandatory before submitting an offer.  It is important that your firm understand the solicitation clauses and requirements such as past
performance, and certifications, etc.  Therefore it is suggested that an officer carefully read and review the solicitation to which your firm
will be responding PRIOR to completing this assessment.  The assessment contains a combination of “Yes/No” and short answer questions.  Each
question will reference a step in the vendor toolbox that will assist your firm in researching, analyzing, and deciding if you are ready to
become an MAS contractor.

Next, locate the "New Contactor Orientation" webcast under the "Vendor Training" tab on the Vendor Support Center (VSC) website. The webcast was
developed to define key contract requirements with which a vendor must comply and outlines how GSA/VA evaluates FSS contract performance. While
visiting the VSC, also review The Steps to Success: Make the Most of your GSA Contract under the "Publications" tab. This document provides an
overview of FSS contract requirements, including key reporting documents. Both learning tools are highly recommended reading, as they provide
information for you to confidently comply with contractual obligations and ensure that you are ready to be an excellent FSS contractor. For more
information about the VSC, visit https://vsc.gsa.gov.
Also, you can identify and assess your competition. This important task can be accomplished by visiting GSA eLibrary at
http://www.gsaelibrary.gsa.gov/ElibMain/home.do and GSA Advantage!® at https://www.gsaadvantage.gov/advantage/main/start_page.do. In addition to
providing access to schedule solicitations, GSA eLibrary is our online source for FSS contract award information; GSA Advantage!® is our online
shopping and ordering system. Both websites contain information regarding the supplies and/or services that current FSS contractors offer. The
information collected from these websites should assist you in identifying potential competitors under the FSS Program. The knowledge gained
from this effort will help you assess your firm's ability to compete, if awarded an FSS contract. Your review of the competition should include:
competitors' pricing, delivery times, warranty terms, services, and any other elements that make their offerings distinctive. For more
information about GSA Advantage!®, visit https://www.gsaadvantage.gov/advantage/main/start_page.do.
Another online tool for assessing your FSS Program competition is Schedule Sales Query (SSQ) at http://ssq.gsa.gov. SSQ provides detailed sales
information on current FSS contractors. On this site, you can search to see if your competitors have successfully sold similar supplies and/or
services under the FSS Program. For more information on SSQ, visit www.gsa.gov/schedulesalesquery.
Your review and analysis of the preceding websites should allow you to assess the competitive environment for the supplies and/or services you
want to provide. Once you understand the requirements which you will have to follow and the market in which you will have to operate, you can
then decide whether a FSS contract is the right business investment for your firm.
 
We recommend that you become familiar with the Federal procurement proposal evaluation factors. At a minimum, Government buyers will evaluate
price and past performance, and possibly your firm's expertise in providing the supplies and/or services you are seeking to offer. Purchasers
under the FSS Program make a selection of an FSS contractor based upon "best value." FAR 2.101 defines "best value" as the expected outcome of
an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation, provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement.
An important criteria to consider is whether the items you propose are compliant with the Trade Agreements Act, which can be found at
http://acquisition.gov/far/current/html/Subpart%2025_4.html#wp1086589. The Trade Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq.) is the enabling
statute that implements numerous multilateral and bilateral international trade agreements and other trade initiatives. Since the estimated
dollar value of each schedule exceeds the established Trade Agreements Act (TAA) threshold, the TAA is applicable to all schedules. In
accordance with the TAA, only U.S.-made or designated country end products shall be offered and sold under schedule contracts. For the
definition of "designated country," go to http://acquisition.gov/far/current/html/Subpart%2025_1.html#wp1118780.
GSA offers ordering activity buyers training and provides them with informational material about the benefits of the FSS Program. Such benefits
include the following:
    ● Acquisition lead time is reduced.
    ● Wide selection of state-of-the-art commercial supplies and/or services.
    ● Schedule orders are not required to be synopsized.
    ● GSA has already determined schedule prices to be fair and reasonable
Although GSA/VA provide informational material on the benefits of the FSS Program, GSA/VA do not market or promote specific contracts,
distribute products of individual firms, or steer business to any individual contractor. If awarded a FSS contract, you will be required to
market your supplies and/or services to ordering activities. You will be required to upload an approved schedule price list on GSA Advantage!®.
Since purchasing authority is spread out across all ordering activities, marketing your supplies and/or services may not be an easy task. You
are strongly encouraged to target markets and build relationships in much the same way you market to commercial customers. Finally, how well you
perform under your FSS contract is up to you.
If you decide to submit an offer and are awarded an FSS contract, be advised that GSA will require your sales to exceed $25,000 within the first
24 months after your contract is awarded. Your company will then be expected to exceed $25,000 in sales each succeeding 12 month period in order
to retain your FSS contract. If your company is newly established or has had low sales in the supplies and/or services you want to offer under
the FSS Program, you should consider the difficulty you may have in meeting this performance requirement. If you ultimately decide to submit an
offer under the FSS Program, having a business plan to meet this performance requirement will be critical to ensuring your success as an FSS
contractor.
 
YES, I WANT TO SUBMIT AN OFFER
Excellent! GSA/VA are always looking for highly qualified firms to increase competition and serve the needs of the ordering activities. While
not all firms are awarded FSS contracts, the FSS Program, in accordance with statutory authority, is open to all responsible offerors. To be
considered for award of an FSS contract, you must demonstrate that your firm meets all FSS Program requirements, including a reasonable and
competitive price. To understand the term responsible, please refer to FAR 9.104-1, which identifies the standards a prospective contractor must
possess to be determined responsible. To read FAR 9.104-1, go to http://acquisition.gov/far/current/html/Subpart%209_1.html#wp1084076.
Currently, the time required to evaluate and award an FSS contract can range from three to six months. Well prepared and documented offers with
competitive pricing are easier to evaluate and may expedite the award process.
GSA has developed eOffer, a web based application that allows an offeror to prepare and submit an FSS offer electronically. eOffer is designed
to create an interactive, secure environment that simplifies the contracting process, from submission of offer to contract award. eOffer uses
the latest digital authentication technology to ensure the integrity of data and to electronically sign the offer. Digital certificates are
required in order to use eOffer. The eOffer website at http://eoffer.gsa.gov contains a variety of information regarding the eOffer application,
including available training, and information regarding digital certificates. It is required that eOffer be used to submit an offer. For more
information on eOffer, visit www.gsa.gov/eoffer.
Once you submit an offer, GSA will look for a number of items. We will verify that you have submitted all the required information necessary to
evaluate your offer. The following are key elements of your offer that will be reviewed:
    ● Pricing
    ● Past performance
    ● Scope -- the supplies/services are within the scope of the Schedule solicitation
    ● Financial capability
    ● Technical
    ● Subcontracting Plan (if you are not a small business concern)
    ● Other regulatory compliance
Good Luck. We want you to be successful, and look forward to the start of a long and successful partnership.
NO, I DO NOT WANT TO SUBMIT AN OFFER RIGHT NOW. WHAT OTHER OPTIONS DO I HAVE FOR FEDERAL BUSINESS?
 
If you decide an FSS contract is not a good fit for your firm at this time, you can still participate in other Federal Government acquisitions.
In some cases, pursuing other avenues may be even more advantageous.
Other Government contracting opportunities are posted on FedBizOpps at www.fedbizopps.gov. Commercial vendors seeking Federal markets can
search, monitor, and retrieve solicitations for supplies and services issued by all Federal agencies. The FAR addresses the circumstances under
which an acquisition of supplies and/or services with an estimated dollar value exceeding $3,000 but not over the simplified acquisition
threshold gives preference to small business concerns. 
Business concerns may also participate in subcontracting opportunities with companies already under contract to the Federal Government. The U.S.
Small Business Administration (www.sba.gov) provides information on subcontracting, as well as other topics of interest to firms seeking
business opportunities. Existing schedule contractors are always looking for opportunities to subcontract to small business, small disadvantaged
business, women-owned small business, HUBZone small business, veteran-owned small business, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business
concerns.
 Remember, the FSS Program is continually open. If you have determined the FSS Program is not the correct contracting vehicle for your firm at
this time, we encourage you to periodically revisit your business plan and the opportunity to market your supplies and/or services under the FSS
Program at a later date.
 Thank you for taking the time to learn about the FSS Program. We wish you great success in whatever method you chose to market to Government
agencies.
Solicitation Document
Title : Office, Imaging and Document Solicitation Number : 3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh Number : 29

Created on January 7, 2013

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

COVER PAGE
FOR A LIST OF THE CHANGES MADE SINCE THE ISSUANCE OF THE LAST SOLICITATION FOR THE SUPPLIES/SERVICES COVERED HEREIN, PLEASE SEE CLAUSE CP-FSS-2 - SIGNIFICANT CHANGES. EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2010, ALL OFFERS SUBMITTED IN RESPONSE TO THIS SOLICITATION SHOULD BE SENT ELECTRONICALLY VIA THE EOFFER/EMOD SYSTEM AT THE FOLLOWING LINK: http://eoffer.gsa.gov/

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-1-C (MAY 2000)
Solicitation No. 3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh 29 WORLDWIDE FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE CONTRACT FOR (a) FSC GROUP 36 PART (N/A) SECTION (N/A) COMMODITY: Office, Imaging and Document Solutions FSC CLASS(ES)/PRODUCT CODE(S): (N/A) (b) STANDARD INDUSTRY GROUP: (N/A) SERVICE: (N/A) SERVICE CODE(S): (N/A) ANY INFORMATION THAT MAY BE DESIRED ON THIS PARTICULAR SOLICITATION CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE ISSUING OFFICE ADDRESS SHOWN HEREIN.

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-18 NEW SCHEDULE PERIODS (NOV 1997)
Effective immediately, this Federal Supply Schedule will no longer have a prescribed beginning and ending date. The schedule period will be continuous, and will contain contracts with contract periods that commence on the date of award (DOA) and expire in five years (exclusion of any options) from the DOA. In addition, Multiple Award Schedule solicitations will become "standing" opportunities for new offers. Unless otherwise noted in the solicitation, new offers may be forwarded at any time. Finally, the Government will award contracts for identical brand name items when offers are determined to be fair and reasonable to the Government.

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-19 PRICING (DEC 1998)
Offerors are advised that separate pricing may be submitted for different countries if separate pricing is consistent with the offeror's commercial sales practice.

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-2 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES (OCT 1988)
i

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

The attention of offeror is invited to the following changes made since the issuance of the last solicitation for the supplies/services covered herein:

The deleted regulations(s) from previous refresh are listed below
Number I-FSS-468 A-FSS-35 52.246-6 Title AVAILABILITY OF REPAIR PARTS (MAR 1986) EXCEPTIONS TO CLAUSE 52.225-5, TRADE AGREEMENTS (NOV 2002) INSPECTION--TIME-AND-MATERIAL AND LABOR-HOUR (MAY 2001) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003) Clause Clause/Provision Clause Provision

The added regulation(s) in new refresh are listed below
Number 52.237-2 552.238-77 52.204-9 Title PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984) DEFINITION (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (MAY 2003) PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011) SCP-FSS-002 SPECIFIC PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS (FEB 2012) 52.222-19 52.219-28 52.209-10 52.232-99 CHILD LABOR--COOPERATION WITH AUTHORITIES AND REMEDIES (APR 2012) POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (APR 2012) PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED DOMESTIC Clause CORPORATIONS (MAY 2012) PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEVIATION) (AUG 2012) Clause Clause Clause Provision Clause Clause Clause/Provision Clause

The updated regulation(s) in new refresh are listed below
Number 52.222-54 52.204-10 52.212-5 Title EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012) REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (AUG 2012) CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS -COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2012) (ALTERNATE II -- JUL 2012) Clause Clause/Provision Clause Clause

The added SINS in new refresh are listed below
SIN # SIN Title Total Sales in $

The deleted SINS in new refresh are listed below
SIN # SIN Title Total Sales in $

Note: Regulation CP-FSS-2 NOTE: Effective December 7, 2011 we will accept offers for SIN 51-507, Destruction
ii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

Services. Effective December 7, 2011, SIN 51-508, Litigation Support Services incorporates requirements for eDiscovery, FOIA requests and paralegal support. Effective April 1, 2010, the Integrated Workplace Acquisition Center (IWACenter), Schedule 36 will only accept proposals submitted electronically through the eOffer/eMod system. The eOffer/eMod system is a web based application that allows contractors to electronically prepare and submit proposals. Offerors must obtain a valid digital certificate in order to use the eOffer/eMod system. For information on how to obtain digital certificates per DUNs number, please see the following link: http://eoffer.gsa.gov/eoffer_docs/DigitalCert.html

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-3 NOTICE: REQUESTS FOR EXPLANATION OR INFORMATION (MAR 1996)
Oral or written requests for explanation or information regarding this solicitation should be directed to: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION Address: GSA/FAS/3QSAD THE STRAWBRIDGE BLDG ATTN: Steven Lozada 20 N 8th ST, 10TH FLOOR PHILADELPHIA, PA 19107-3191 E-MAIL: steven.lozada@gsa.gov or Phone (215) 446-5040 or (215) 446-4886. IMPORTANT: DO NOT ADDRESS OFFERS, MODIFICATIONS OR WITHDRAWALS TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS. THE ADDRESS DESIGNATED FOR RECEIPT OF OFFERS IS CONTAINED ELSEWHERE IN THIS SOLICITATION.

Note: Regulation CP-FSS-3 NOTE: Effective April 1, 2010, the Integrated Workplace Acquisition Center (IWACenter), Schedule 36 will only accept proposals submitted electronically through the eOffer/eMod system. The eOffer/eMod system is a web based application that allows contractors to electronically prepare and submit proposals. Offerors must obtain a valid digital certificate in order to use the eOffer/eMod system. For information on how to obtain digital certificates per DUNs number, please see the following link: http://eoffer.gsa.gov/eoffer_docs/DigitalCert.html Effective January 11, 2010, IWACenter Schedule 36 will only accept contract modification requests submitted electronically through the eOffer/eMod system.

Begin Regulation

CP-FSS-6 ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (EDI) ORDERING
iii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

(JAN 1994)
Offerors are advised that the Federal Supply Service is expanding use of electronic communications to exchange business documents. The Placement of Orders clause contained in this contract provides that orders may be placed using Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) procedures.

Begin Regulation

SCP-FSS-001 GENERAL PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS (FEB 2012) (ALTERNATE I--DEC 2010)
(a) Read the entire solicitation document prior to preparation of your offer. (b) All information provided by the offeror shall be current concise, specific, and complete, and shall demonstrate a thorough understanding of the requirements described in the Statement of Work in Part I. By signing the offer, the offeror attests to the fact that there have been no changes to the text of this solicitation, unless otherwise stated. (c) All offers must include the following. Omission of any section or substantial deficiencies within any section will result in rejection of the offer. (1) Section I Administrative/Contract Data (2) Section II Technical Proposal (3) Section III Price Proposal (d) Offers will be rejected if they do not meet all of the following criteria: (1) Submit "Pathway to Success" training certificate. (2) Complete, sign, and submit mandatory "Readiness Assessment". (3) If a consultant or an agent, other than an employee of the company, is being used during or after award, submit an agent authorization letter. (4) Submit a completed Vendor Response Document (Vendor Information document if submitting an eOffer). (5) The offeror currently has an up to date registration in Central Contractor Registry (CCR). (6) The offeror has completed the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) in its entirety. The information is current, accurate, and complete, and reflects the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) code(s) for this solicitation. (7) Submit a completed Open Ratings, Inc. (ORI) Past Performance Evaluation and Order Form (references). (8) Submit a completed Commercial Sales Practices (CSP) Format. (9) Submit a complete Small Business Subcontracting Plan, as applicable. (e) Withdrawal of Offer: An offeror may withdraw its offer at any time prior to award by submitting a written withdrawal request to the GSA Contract Specialist evaluating the offer. If the offer is withdrawn, it can be resubmitted as a new offer at a later date. (f) Electronic submission of offers via eOffer is mandatory via http://eOffer.gsa.gov, unless otherwise stated in the electronic submission standards and requirements at the Vendor Support Center website (http://vsc.gsa.gov).

iv

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

Begin Regulation

SCP-FSS-002 SPECIFIC PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS (FEB 2012)
(a) Section I Administrative/Contract Data: (1) Offeror must submit a copy of the certificate signifying that one of its current employees, who is an authorized negotiator for this offer, has completed the "Pathway to Success" training within the past year. "Pathway to Success" training is available through the Vendor Support Center website at http://vsc.gsa.gov. Click on the tab "Vendor Training" to access this free, web based training. The training session is less than two hours total and covers the major factors your organization should consider prior to submitting an offer to GSA. (2) Complete, sign, and submit mandatory "Readiness Assessment". Offeror must submit a copy of the "Readiness Assessment" signifying that one of its current officers who are authorized to commit the organization, has completed the "Readiness Assessment" within the past year. The "Readiness Assessment" is available through the Vendor Support Center website at http://vsc.gsa.gov. Click on the tab "Toolbox" to access this free assessment. The mandatory "Readiness Assessment" covers the major factors your organization should consider prior to submitting an offer to GSA. (3) Your offer may be submitted either electronically by eOffer (http://eoffer.gsa.gov) or paper proposal. The most recent refresh of this solicitation can be viewed on FedBizOpps. Submissions of previous versions received more than thirty (30) calendar days after the issuing date of this version will be rejected. (i) If using the eOffer system, it is NOT necessary to submit a signed copy of the SF1449 or other signatures that may be required in the solicitation document, because a digital certificate is required to submit an eOffer. Completing an eOffer through the eOffer system will constitute a signature wherever signature is required in this solicitation regardless of whether or not an electronic signature is present on the document requiring a signature. If submitting an eOffer, the offer must include theSF1449, the Vendor Information document (fill-in responses to the Vendor Response Document, GSA required attachments, and offeror's "optional" attachments (defined as any other information submitted by the offeror, not already a part of the requirements and instructions defined by the Government). (ii) If submitting a paper proposal, the offer must include an original and an electronic copy of the signed SF1449, the Vendor Response Document, GSA-required attachments, and offeror's "optional" attachments (defined as any other information submitted by the offeror, not already a part of the requirements and instructions defined by the Government). By signing and submitting the SF1449, the offeror agrees to the contract terms and conditions presented in Part II Contract Terms and Conditions of the solicitation, unless otherwise noted. (4) If a consultant is being used during or after award, submit an agent authorization letter. See separate FedBizOpps document for a sample letter. (5) Offeror shall provide a complete copy of its current CCR and ORCA which includes applicable NAICS codes for services/products offered. (6) Offeror shall provide a copy of any cancellation and/or rejection notice(s) your firm has received in the preceding two years from any previous GSA Schedule contracts or proposals. (7) Offeror shall provide the contract number(s) and price lists of any other GSA Schedule contract(s). (8) Offeror shall identify any pending offers under other GSA Schedules including the name and phone number of the contract specialist evaluating the offer.

v

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

(9) Offeror should not submit clauses Incorporated by Reference (IBR) document, which is the full text of all the clauses incorporated by reference. (10) Unless otherwise requested, offerors should not submit brochures, newsletters, or other marketing materials. (11) Elaborate artwork, expensive paper and bindings, and visual or other presentation aids are discouraged. (12) Provide a copy of offeror's most current, complete, audited (if available) two years of financial statements (at a minimum, balance sheets and income statements). GSA uses balance sheet and income statement information to determine financial responsibility. NOTE: Do NOT submit tax returns. Provide an explanation for any negative financial information disclosed, including negative equity or income. You may be required to provide letters of credit or other documentation to demonstrate that adequate financial resources are available. (13) Small Business Subcontracting Plan, if applicable The offeror shall prepare and submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan if, pursuant to the applicable NAICS codes and size standards, it is determined to be other than a small business concern for purposes of this solicitation. Failure to submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan when required will result in the rejection of your proposal. Large businesses, nonprofit organizations and educational institutions are advised of the requirement to submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan (see Clause 552.219-72, incorporated by reference).The Government will review each plan to assure it is consistent with the provisions of this clause. Subcontracting plans are subject to negotiations along with the terms and conditions of any contract resulting from this solicitation. The offeror's subcontracting plan must be approved by the Contracting Officer prior to award. A sample outline that may be used in preparing a subcontracting plan is included as a separate FedBizOpps document (ref. FAR 19.702). GSA's subcontracting goals for Fiscal Year 2012-13 are: Category of Small Business Small Business (total of all types) HUBZone Small Disadvantaged Women Owned Veteran Owned Service Disabled Veteran Owned Goal % of Total Subcontracting Dollars 25% 3% 5% 5% 3% 3%

(b) Section II Technical Proposal: The technical proposal is comprised of four factors Factor One (Corporate Experience), Factor Two (Relevant Project Experience), Factor Three (Past Performance) and Factor Four (Quality Control). All offers shall address these factors as instructed below. If the offeror is proposing multiple Special Item Numbers (SINs), they shall clearly identify each SIN with the corresponding technical information. Please provide a narrative for each of the following sections to demonstrate your company's capabilities in satisfying ALL underlying requirements listed below. (1) Factor One Corporate Experience: Submit a two page (maximum) narrative describing the company's corporate experience in all services provided under this Schedule, regardless of the number of SINs being offered. Your company must have provided the type of professional services under this schedule to either a Government or Commercial entity for a minimum of two years. At a minimum, your narrative must include the following: (i) Organization's number of years of corporate experience in the services described in Part I of this solicitation.

vi

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

(ii) Organization's size, experience in the field, and resources available to enable the offeror to fulfill requirements. (iii) Brief history of the organization's activities contributing to the development of expertise and capabilities related to this requirement. (iv) Information that demonstrates the offeror's organizational and accounting controls and manpower presently in house or the ability to acquire the type and kinds of personnel proposed. (v) Describe/identify how you intend to market services to federal clients. (vi) Discuss the use of subcontractors. If applicable, a letter of commitment is required to cover the term of the contract. (2) Factor Two Relevant Project Experience: (i) For each service SIN offered, the offeror must provide descriptions of two (2) projects. Each description must state the SIN to which it applies, and identify the specific services being proposed for that SIN. (ii) The projects must either have been completed within the last two years or be ongoing. For ongoing contracts with a base year and option years, at a minimum, the base year must have been completed; for multiyear task orders, at a minimum, the first year must have been completed. (iii) The offeror must demonstrate that the tasks performed are of a similar complexity to the work solicited under each SIN. The offeror may provide the same project for more than one SIN as long as the description identifies which specific work relates to each SIN. All examples of completed services must have been found to be acceptable by the client. Project descriptions shall not exceed four (4) pages per project. (iv) Each project description shall include the following customer reference information: (A) Customer/Client Name (B) Project Name/Contract Number (C) Customer Point of Contact for Project (D) POC's phone number and email (E) Project performance period (include months/years) (F) Dollar value of the entire project (G) Dollar value received for the work preformed relevant to the SIN offered (H) Brief summary of the project as a whole (background, purpose, etc.) (I) A copy of the Statement of Work for the project; this does not count against the limitation of four pages per project. (v) As applicable, each project description shall include a narrative account of the work performed that addresses the following elements: (A) Detailed description of SIN relevant work performed and results achieved (B) Methodology, tools, and/or processes utilized in performing the work (C) Demonstration of compliance with any applicable laws, regulations, Executive Orders, OMB Circulars, professional standards, etc. (D) Project schedule (i.e., major milestones, tasks, deliverables), including an explanation of any delays (E) How the work performed is similar in scope and complexity to that described in the Statement of Work (Part I of this solicitation)

vii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

(F) Demonstration of specific experience and/or special qualifications detailed in the Statement of Work (Part I of this solicitation) (vi) Substitution For Relevant Project Experience: If project experience does not exist, the offeror may substitute relevant projects of predecessor companies or key personnel that will be performing major aspects of the work. If the offeror chooses to make such a substitution, the narratives must clearly identify the entity or personnel that performed the services, and include all elements of (b)(2)(v) of this provision. (3) Factor Three Past Performance: The offeror shall order and obtain a Past Performance Evaluation from Open Ratings, Inc. (ORI). See separate FedBizOpps document. Offerors are responsible for payment to ORI for the Past Performance Evaluation. (i) Past Performance Evaluations are valid for a period of one year from date of issuance by ORI. The submission of an evaluation issued more than one year prior to the date of proposal submission will result in rejection of the proposal. (ii) The offeror shall submit one (1) copy of the completed Past Performance Evaluation and one (1) copy of the order form (including information on up to 20 customer references) with its proposal. Failure to submit the order form and the completed evaluation with the offer will result in rejection of the proposal. A "customer reference" is defined as a person or company that has purchased services from your firm. (iii) Offeror is advised to use references from projects involving services related to this solicitation and/or those performed under the appropriate NAICS code(s) related to services offered. If these references were not provided to ORI, please explain why. (iv) The offeror shall address any negative feedback contained in the ORI report. Explain what actions your firm has taken to minimize the problems that resulted in negative feedback. (4) Factor Four Quality Control: Submit one narrative regardless of the number of SINs offered, not to exceed two (2) pages, addressing each of the following items to demonstrate your firm's capabilities in satisfying ALL underlying requirements listed below. (i) Describe the internal review procedures which facilitate high quality standards in the organization. (ii) Identify the individuals who will directly supervise or review projects specifically regarding quality control. (iii) State whether or not subcontractors are used and, if subcontractors are used, describe the quality control measures the offeror uses to ensure acceptable subcontractor performance. (iv) Describe how your firm handles potential problem areas and solutions. (v) Describe the procedures for insuring quality performance while meeting urgent requirements. (vi) Identify the strategies your firm will implement to manage and complete multiple projects for multiple agencies simultaneously. (c) Section III Price Proposal: (1) GSA's pricing goal: Obtain equal to or better than the Most Favored Customer (MFC) pricing with the same or similar terms and conditions. The U.S. Government Accountability Office has specifically recommended that "the price analysis GSA does to establish the Government's MAS negotiation objective should start with the best discount given to any of the vendor's customers." GSA seeks to obtain the offeror's best price based on its evaluation of discounts, terms, conditions, and concessions offered to commercial customers. If the MFC is a Federal agency, but sales exist to commercial clients, identify which, if any, of the commercial clients obtain the
viii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

best price. This will allow the Government to establish a "basis for award" customer in accordance with the Price Reductions Clause 552.238-75, paragraph (a). The prices submitted represent fully burdened rates inclusive of all cost factors (e.g., direct labor, in direct labor, G&A, profit, and IFF). (2) The offeror shall propose a pricing structure consistent with its commercial practices and provide supporting documentation (See paragraph (12) below). Pricing shall be submitted and clearly identified as being based either on a "Commercial Price List" or on "Commercial Market Price," as defined in FAR 2.101 ("Catalog Price" and "Market Prices" under the definition of "Commercial Item"). Submit an electronic copy of the proposed pricing. (i) As part of the Price Proposal: Offeror shall outline all services being proposed. At a minimum, the offeror should provide the following information: (A) SIN(s) proposed (B) Service/Product proposed (C) MFC/Best commercial customer (D) MFC/Best commercial customer price (E) Discount % offered to MFC/Best commercial customer (F) Discount % offered to GSA (G) Prices offered to GSA (excluding IFF) (H) Prices offered to GSA (including IFF) (3) When training courses are offered, pricing will include the following information: (i) (A) Title and brief description of the course, including major course objectives (B) Length of course (number of hours/days) (C) Minimum/Maximum number of participants (D) Price for additional students above minimum (if applicable) (E) Support materials provided as part of the course (e.g., training manuals, CDs, DVDs) (F) Commercial price of course ("N/A" if offering market based prices) (G) Discount % offered to GSA ("N/A" if offering market based prices) (H) Price of course offered to GSA (excluding IFF) (I) Price of course offered to GSA (including IFF) (ii) Note: These descriptions will become part of the GSA Authorized Price List if a contract is awarded, and must be posted on GSA Advantage!ฎ. Submit an electronic copy of the description of each course offered. (4) The offeror may propose separate rates for "domestic" and "overseas" services based on the application of variations in their indirect costs, depending upon where the services are performed. Two sets of rates are not required. In the event two sets of rates are offered, the offeror must identify which are considered "domestic" rates and which are considered "overseas" rates. (5) The offeror may propose separate rates for "customer facility" and "contractor facility" (also known as "offsite/onsite"),based on the application of variations in its indirect costs depending upon where the services are performed. Two sets of rates are not required. In the event two sets of rates are offered, the offeror must identify which is for work at the "customer facility"(i.e., the ordering activity/agency) and which is for work at the "contractor facility." (6) Offeror is required to include a 0.75% Industrial Funding Fee (IFF) in the prices submitted with their offer (See contract clause 552.23874, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting). The fee will be included in the awarded prices and reflected in the total amount charged to ordering activities.
ix

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

(7)

(i) When pricing is based on a Commercial Price List (CPL), submit two copies of the company's current dated CPL/Standard Rate Sheet (this is a standalone document that was not prepared for this solicitation). Submit proposals for the base year only. Pricing based on the CPL are subject to the Economic Price Adjustment Clause at 552.21670. OR (ii) Pricing based on Commercial Market Prices are subject to the Economic Price Adjustment Clause, I-FSS-969. If offering market pricing in accordance with Clause I-FSS-969, the offeror must propose a fixed rate of escalation or identify an economic indicator such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics Employment Cost Index.

(8) For each proposed labor category, the offeror shall provide a detailed position description. Position descriptions must include functional responsibilities, minimum years of experience, minimum educational/degree requirements, and any applicable training or certification requirements. If it is the firm's standard commercial practice to substitute experience for education, explain the methodology in use (e.g., five years experience equates to a BA/BS degree). These descriptions will become part of the GSA Authorized Price List if a contract is awarded, and must be posted on GSA Advantage!ฎ. Submit an electronic copy of the labor category descriptions and minimum education and minimum experience requirements for each labor category. (9) Travel will be handled in accordance with clause C-FSS-370. Costs for transportation, lodging, meals and incidental expenses incurred by the contractor are allowable subject to the limitations contained in the Federal Travel Regulations and/or Joint Travel Regulations. They should not be included in the offered prices and will be considered at the task order level. (10) The Commercial Sales Practices Format (CSP) must be completed in accordance with the Commercial Sales Practices Instructions, demonstrating comparative pricing with your best customer(s). A general explanation of the circumstances and frequency of deviations from your standard commercial practices is required [see Clause 552.212-70, Preparation of Offer (Multiple Awards Schedule)]. A separate CSP must be completed for each pricing structure proposed. Provide a rationale for the estimated GSA contract annual sales (CSP). (11) The offeror shall include a detailed narrative containing sufficient information for each of the services/products offered to enable the Contracting Officer to determine that offered prices are fair and reasonable. For example, if a price offered to GSA is not equal to or better than the price offered to the firm's designated Most Favored Customer, the narrative must fully explain the offeror's rationale for proposing such a rate that will enable the Contracting Officer to determine the rate fair and reasonable. Any deviation from an offeror's commercial sales practices must be explained, including the circumstances surrounding and frequency of the deviations. (12) The offeror must provide supporting pricing documentation for EACH proposed service/product (e.g. each labor category, percentage based fee, etc.). Supporting pricing documentation may consist of copies of invoices, contracts, quote sheets, etc. and MUST be included in the Offer. There must be a clear and relevant relationship between the supporting document and the proposed price it is meant to substantiate. Each supporting document must be labeled with the name of the corresponding proposed labor category, service, etc. (13) If offering professional services (as defined by 29 CFR 541), offeror MUST submit a Professional Compensation Plan setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for the professional employees who will work under the contract in accordance with Clause 52.222-46 Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees. Individual compensation disclosure is not required. Submission of general compensation practices often printed in an employee handbook is sufficient. (14) If offering professional or technical services, submit a copy of the offeror's policy that addresses uncompensated overtime in accordance with Clause 52.237-10 Identification of Uncompensated Overtime. (15) Repair and Alterations (R&A): Applicable to the solicitation 36: Information for offering R&A is located in PART I. Clauses specific to R&A are located in a separate FedBizOpps
x

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

document. (16) Service Contract Act: Applicable to this-solicitation (Service Contract Act 52.222-41, and related clauses 52.222-42, 52.222-43, and 52.222-49) (i) The Service Contract Act (SCA) applies to all nonprofessional services to be provided under this schedule except for any pricing offered for service outside of the United States. The SINs to which the SCA applies are identified elsewhere in the solicitation. The SCA index of applicable wage determinations for this solicitation and resultant contract are shown in FedBizOpps document "SCA Index of Wage Determinations." The full text version of each wage determination can be viewed at www.wdol.gov. Some of the proposed labor categories may be subject to the SCA (usually nonprofessional categories). As such, it is important that the offeror verifies that its proposed base rates and fringe benefit rates for these labor categories meet or exceed the SCA wage determination rates and fringe benefits for the areas where the offeror expects to perform the majority of work under the contract. (ii) A contract must meet only the base rate and fringe benefit rate requirements in the SCA Wage Determination (WD) Revision Number currently incorporated into the GSA Contract. The WD Revision Number in the GSA contract takes precedence over any WD Revision Number an agency incorporates into an RFQ at the Task Order Level. Contractor cannot increase its GSA contract prices at the Task Order Level as a result of accepting a WD Revision Number at the Task Order Level that differs from the WD Revision Number currently incorporated to the Contractor's GSA contract. (iii) Identify the SCA wage determination(s), including determination number, revision date, state and counties that were used to determine that the rates offered are in compliance. The revision numbers of the wage determinations listed in the solicitation index of wage determinations should be used in the comparisons. See the sample below for how labor categories subject to the SCA are to be submitted as part of the GSA proposal. Labor category titles and rates are shown for example purposes only. Labor categories Principal Engineer Secretary** Scientist Driver** Engineering Technician** Administrative Assistant** Hourly Rate $100.00 $80.00 $20.00 $80.00 $25.00 $26.00 $18.00

**Indicates SCA eligible categories. See the SCA Matrix following the price list for additional information regarding these labor categories.

(iv) The following paragraph is meant to be instructive and NOT to be copied as part of the proposed GSA price list. For all the identified SCA eligible labor categories, map the SCA equivalent labor category title (titles/descriptions available at http://www.wdol.gov. Click on the "library" link, then download the SCA Directory of Occupations, 5thEdition). Also identify the WD# that the labor categories in your offer are predicated on. Note that the applicable revision number for any Wage Determination number is the revision number
xi

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

identified in the solicitation index of wage determinations. (v) Utilize the following spreadsheet format (labor categories shown are for example purposes): SCA Matrix SCA Eligible Contract Labor Category Secretary Driver Engineering Technician Administrative Assistant SCA Equivalent Code Title 01115General Clerk I 31361 Truck driver, Light Truck 29081 Engineering Technician I 01011 Accounting Clerk I WD Number 052059 052059 052059 052059

(vi) Insert the following language below the above SCA matrix and insert both (matrix and language) at the end of the proposed GSA price list. "The Service Contract Act (SCA) is applicable to this contract and it includes SCA applicable labor categories. The prices for the indicated (**) SCA labor categories are based on the U.S. Department of Labor Wage Determination Number(s) identified in the SCA matrix. The prices offered are based on the preponderance of where work is performed and should the contractor perform in an area with lower SCA rates, resulting in lower wages being paid, the task order prices will be discounted accordingly." (vii) (A) There are three methods for determining price adjustments of Service Contract Act (SCA) eligible labor categories ONLY. The offeror will be required to select one method for the life of the contract. (1) Method 1: Price Adjustment for the base contract period and all options exercised shall be in accordance with clause 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts). When a modification is issued to all contract holders incorporating a revised index of wage determinations, contractors shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase/decrease claimed under clause 52.222-43 within 30 calendar days after receipt of the modification. (2) Method 2: An escalation method is negotiated prior to award in accordance with the clause I-FSS-969, Economic Price Adjustment FSS Multiple Award Schedule, utilizing any of the methods available in the solicitation under that clause. (3) Method 3: When the offered prices are based upon a commercial price list, then only revisions in the commercial price list will enable the contractor to revise prices. They will only be allowed increases in accordance with clause 552.216-70, Economic Price Adjustment FSS Multiple Award Schedule Contracts. (B) Regardless of the method used ,contractor must ensure that within 30 calendar days after the effective date of any modification to revise pricing based on changes in the applicable wage determination(s), the electronic catalog is updated on GSA Advantage!ฎ. (viii) Note 1: The contractor will not automatically be allowed an increase in prices based solely on new wage determinations. (ix) Note 2: Reference Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29, Labor, Subtitle A Office of
xii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

Cover Page

the Secretary of Labor, Part 4 Labor Standards for Federal Service Contracts, Subpart D Compensation Standards, paragraph 4.161 Minimum monetary wages under contracts exceeding $2,500, which states: "No change in the obligation of the contractor or subcontractor with respect to minimum monetary wages will result from the mere fact that higher or lower wage rates may be determined to be prevailing for such employees in the locality after the award and before completion of the contract."

Begin Regulation

552.219-71 NOTICE TO OFFERORS OF SUBCONTRACTING PLAN REQUIREMENTS (MAR 2012)
The General Services Administration (GSA) is committed to assuring that maximum practicable opportunity is provided to small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns to participate in the performance of this contract consistent with its efficient performance. GSA expects any subcontracting plan submitted pursuant to FAR 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, to reflect this commitment. Consequently, an offeror, other than a small business concern, before being awarded a contract exceeding $650,000 ($1,500,000 for construction), must demonstrate that its subcontracting plan represents a creative and innovative program for involving small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned, veteran-owned, and service-disabled veteran owned small business concerns as subcontractors in the performance of this contract.

xiii

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Please click on an item in Table of Contents below to go to the respective location within this document.

Part I - GOODS & SERVICES........................................................................................ 1
SIN Group -- Copiers/Multi-function Devices and All Related Services, Equipment and Supplies........... 1 SIN Group -- Document Management Products, Systems, Services & Solutions..................................... 17 SIN Group -- Mail Management, Systems, Processing Equipment and Related Solutions.......................50 SIN Group -- Office/Business Products & Solutions.................................................................................57 SIN Group -- Photographic Products, Services & Solutions.................................................................... 61

Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS....................................................64
52.203-15 -- WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009 (JUN 2010)...........................................................................................64 52.204-11 -- AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT-REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (JUL 2010)................................................................................................................................................ 64 52.212-5 -- CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2012) (ALTERNATE II -- JUL 2012)............ 66 52.216-18 -- ORDERING (OCT 1995) (DEVIATION II - FEB 2007)...................................................... 70 52.216-19 -- ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995) (DEVIATION II - FEB 2007)....................................70 52.216-22 -- INDEFINITE QUANTITY (OCT 1995) (DEVIATION I - JAN 1994).................................. 70 52.222-41 -- SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965 (NOV 2007).............................................................71 52.223-11 -- OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (MAY 2001).............................................................76 52.223-15 -- ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN ENERGY-CONSUMING PRODUCTS (DEC 2007)............... 77 52.223-3 -- HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA (JAN 1997)..........................................................................................................................................................78 52.223-3 -- HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA (JAN 1997) (ALTERNATE I - JUL 1995)..................................................................................................................... 79 52.223-7 -- NOTICE OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS (JAN 1997)....................................................... 80 52.232-99 -- PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEVIATION) (AUG 2012).......................................................................................................................81 52.252-2 -- CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)............................................... 81 552.211-15 -- DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS (SEP 2004)83 552.211-78 -- COMMERCIAL DELIVERY SCHEDULE (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (FEB 1996)..........................................................................................................................................................84 552.212-71 -- CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO GSA ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2003)......................................................................................................... 85 552.212-72 -- CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO GSA ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (SEP 2003)..........................................................................................................................................................86 552.216-70 -- ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT -- FSS MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE CONTRACTS (SEP 1999) (ALTERNATE I - SEP 1999).......................................................................... 86 552.216-72 -- PLACEMENT OF ORDERS (AUG 2010)..........................................................................87 552.216-73 -- ORDERING INFORMATION (AUG 2010)....................................................................... 88 552.238-76 -- DEFINITION (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) -- RECOVERY PURCHASING (FEB 2007)..........................................................................................................................................................89 552.238-78 -- SCOPE OF CONTRACT (ELIGIBLE ORDERING ACTIVITIES) (SEP 2008) (ALTERNATE I -- FEB 2007)................................................................................................................... 89 552.238-80 -- USE OF FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE CONTRACTS BY CERTAIN ENTITIES -RECOVERY PURCHASING (FEB 2007)................................................................................................. 91 C-FSS-370 -- CONTRACTOR TASKS / SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS (NOV 2003).................................92 C-FSS-411 -- FIRE OR CASUALTY HAZARDS, OR SAFETY OR HEALTH REQUIREMENTS (OCT 1992)..........................................................................................................................................................93 C-FSS-425 -- WORKMANSHIP (OCT 1988)............................................................................................94 C-FSS-427 -- ANSI STANDARDS (JUL 1991)..........................................................................................94

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

CI-FSS-056 -- FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) PART 51 DEVIATION AUTHORITY (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (JAN 2010).....................................................................................94 D-FSS-440 -- PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, PACKING, AND MARKING AND LABELING OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT) FOR SURFACE SHIPMENT (MAY 1997)...............................95 D-FSS-456 -- PACKAGING AND PACKING (APR 1984).......................................................................95 E-FSS-521-D -- INSPECTION (MAY 2000)............................................................................................. 96 E-FSS-522 -- INSPECTION AT DESTINATION (MAR 1996)................................................................. 96 F-FSS-202-F -- DELIVERY PRICES (APR 1984).................................................................................... 96 F-FSS-202-G -- DELIVERY PRICES (JAN 1994).................................................................................... 97 F-FSS-230 -- DELIVERIES TO THE U.S. POSTAL SERVICE (JAN 1994).............................................98 F-FSS-244-B -- ADDITIONAL SERVICE CHARGE FOR DELIVERY WITHIN CONSIGNEE'S PREMISES (MAY 2000)............................................................................................................................ 98 F-FSS-736-A -- EXPORT TRAFFIC RELEASE (OCT 1988)................................................................... 99 F-FSS-772 -- CARLOAD SHIPMENTS (APR 1984)................................................................................ 99 G-FSS-900-C -- CONTACT FOR CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION (JUL 2003)..................................100 G-FSS-906 -- VENDOR MANAGED INVENTORY (VMI) PROGRAM (MAS) (JAN 1999).................. 100 G-FSS-907 -- ORDER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT (APR 1984)................................................................ 101 G-FSS-910 -- DELIVERIES BEYOND THE CONTRACTUAL PERIOD-PLACING OF ORDERS (OCT 1988)........................................................................................................................................................101 I-FSS-103 -- SCOPE OF CONTRACT WORLDWIDE (JUL 2002)........................................................101 I-FSS-106 -- GUARANTEED MINIMUM (JUL 2003)........................................................................... 102 I-FSS-108 -- CLAUSES FOR OVERSEAS COVERAGE (MAY 2000).................................................... 102 I-FSS-109 -- ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND U.S. DOLLAR REQUIREMENTS (MAR 1998)................. 103 I-FSS-140-B -- URGENT REQUIREMENTS (JAN 1994)...................................................................... 103 I-FSS-163 -- OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (EVERGREEN) (APR 2000).103 I-FSS-40 -- CONTRACTOR TEAM ARRANGEMENTS (JUL 2003)...................................................... 104 I-FSS-50 -- PERFORMANCE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (FEB 1995)........................................ 104 I-FSS-546 -- GUARANTEE (APR 1984)................................................................................................. 104 I-FSS-597 -- GSA ADVANTAGE! (SEP 2000)........................................................................................104 I-FSS-599 -- ELECTRONIC COMMERCE--FACNET (SEP 2006)........................................................104 I-FSS-60 -- PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES (APR 2000)...................................................................... 106 I-FSS-600 -- CONTRACT PRICE LISTS (JUL 2004)............................................................................. 106 I-FSS-624 -- OFFICE COPIER UTILIZATION GUIDELINES (MAY 2000)......................................... 110 I-FSS-626 -- SERVICE POINTS (AUG 1986).........................................................................................110 I-FSS-639 -- CONTRACT SALES CRITERIA (MAR 2002).................................................................... 111 I-FSS-644 -- DEALERS AND SUPPLIERS (OCT 1988)........................................................................ 111 I-FSS-646 -- BLANKET PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (MAY 2000).......................................................111 I-FSS-680 -- DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION BY CONTRACTOR (APR 1984)........................ 111 I-FSS-965 -- INTERPRETATION OF CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS (APR 1984)..............................112 I-FSS-969 -- ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT-FSS MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE (JAN 2002)112

Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS.........................................................................114
52.209-5 -- CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (APR 2010).................... 114 52.209-7 -- INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (FEB 2012).......................116 52.215-20 -- REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010) (ALTERNATE IV - OCT 2010).............. 117 52.215-6 -- PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 1997)......................................................................... 117 52.216-1 -- TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)..................................................................................... 117 52.233-2 -- SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)...................................................................................118 52.252-1 -- SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)............ 118 552.217-71 -- NOTICE REGARDING OPTION(S) (NOV 1992)............................................................119 552.232-82 -- CONTRACTOR'S REMITTANCE (PAYMENT) ADDRESS (MAY 2003)........................ 119 A-FSS-11 -- CONSIDERATION OF OFFERS UNDER STANDING SOLICITATION (DEC 2000)......119 A-FSS-12-C -- PERIOD FOR ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS (NOV 1997).............................................120 A-FSS-31 -- NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (OCT 1988)...................................120 A-FSS-41 -- INFORMATION COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND HOURS OF OPERATION (NOV 1999)........................................................................................................................................................120 B-FSS-96 -- ESTIMATED SALES (NOV 1997).......................................................................................121 K-FSS-1 -- AUTHORIZED NEGOTIATORS (MAR 1998)......................................................................122 L-FSS-101 -- FINAL PROPOSAL REVISION (JUN 2002).....................................................................123

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29

L-FSS-400 -- INTRODUCTION OF NEW SERVICES/PRODUCTS (INSP) (NOV 2000)..................... 123 L-FSS-59 -- AWARD (APR 1984)........................................................................................................... 124

Part IV - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR CONTRACT AWARD............................ 125
552.212-73 -- EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (AUG 1997)........................................................................................................................................................125

Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION........................... 126
52.212-3 -- OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2012)........................................................................................................................................................126

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Part I - GOODS & SERVICES
THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF SPECIAL ITEM NUMBERS (SINs) WHICH ARE INCLUDED IN THIS SCHEDULE. CONTRACTS MAY BE AWARDED FOR ONE OR MORE OF THESE SINs. PLEASE NOTE THAT SINs 20-220, 51-101-7, 47-147, AND 50-180 ARE SET-ASIDE FOR AWARD TO SMALL BUSINESSES ONLY. CONTRACTS FOR ALL REMAINING SINs MAY BE AWARDED TO BUSINESSES OF ANY SIZE.

Group Name: Copiers/Multi-function Devices and All Related Services, Equipment and Supplies 20 220 --- Projection Screen, Stand, Printer (Enlarger), Systems
This SIN includes projection screens for all types of projection applications (including front and rear, portable, manual wall ceiling or electronic wall or ceiling, or wall mount, tripod, theatre video screen, optical). Projection Stands can be used with or without electrical outlets, folding or non-folding, may be self-leveling. Projection Printer (enlargers) allow permit vertical and/or horizontal projection and designed for and used specifically with all types of projectors listed herein. The projection system is a high-definition electronic cinema projection system that delivers film-quality image and digital surround sound. This SIN includes directly related accessories, attachments and supplies. NOTE: *SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE SIN* Sales: $149,889 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: Yes FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333316 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

20 300 --- Projectors & Electronic Whiteboards
This SIN includes a wide range of projectors and Electronic Whiteboards. Projectors include both Digital and Still Picture Projectors, (e.g., front screen, rear screen) and LCD, DLP multimedia, High Output, Theater Projector wall/ceiling, opaque, tripod, palm-sized ceiling & overhead, 35mm slide projectors & viewers, and Projecting Sets including 16/35mm motion picture, silent/sound. Includes directly related supplies, attachments and accessories (e.g., digital memory cards, transparency viewer, transparency lenses, and wireless single/dual remote control). Electronic Whiteboards is an interactive electronic whiteboard that can be used in conjunction with projectors to project digital images on the electronic whiteboard. It allows the user to capture, communicate and interact in real-time, edit and publish or e-mail the information right from the PC desktop. It's perfect for net meeting, training, workshops, distance learning and more. The electronic whiteboards are offered in many types and sizes. Includes directly related attachments and accessories (e.g., digital memory cards, transparency viewer, lenses, easels, slide mounters to produce 2x2 slides mounted with 35mm transparency materials, including polyester base films, and wireless single/dual remote control. This SIN includes directly related accessories, attachments and supplies.

Page: 1 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Sales: $917,372 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333316 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

50 205 --- Rental Plan for Postage Meters and Related Mailing Equipment
This SIN includes rental plan for postage meters and related mailing equipment (e.g, mail processing and X-Ray systems, mail/parcel scales and weighing machines, inserting). NOTE: SPECIAL PROVISIONS for Rental of Mailing Management Equipment under SIN 50-205 This mailing equipment SIN 50-205 covers rental services for mailing equipment, related accessories, options, attachments and any other equipment already established under the Group 36 Schedule that may be integrated to present a total solution package under SIN 50-205. General or Basic Mailing Equipment may be offered under SIN 50 163. As required by the U.S. Postal Service, Postage Meters are prohibited for outright purchase sale and shall be available for rental only. The meter may be used only for imprinting and recording postage. All contractors must act in accordance with the U.S. Postal regulations that govern the Postage Meters and all other mail equipment. All postage meters shall be serviced by the contractor and maintained in first-class operating condition without expense to the Government, except for repairs, replacements, and maintenance necessitated by accident, misuse, or negligence of the Government. The contractor must be able to replace any equipment of his manufacture, and to furnish equipment, which is complimentary or additional thereto. Liability While the equipment is installed on the Government premises, the contractor shall assume all responsibility for loss or damage to the equipment except for loss or damage caused by the negligence or willful act of the Government. Installation and Removal Rental Equipment shall be delivered to the customer at the expense of the contractor (excluding established installation charges). Upon expiration of the rental, the contractor shall pay charges incurred for picking up rented equipment excluding established removal charges. Prices The rates for rental shall allow the use of the equipment by primary shifts of eight (8) hours per day/forty (40) hours per week. Extra shift rates shall be indicated in the offer.

Page: 2 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Service An offeror must be competent to service equipment of the make offered under rental within the geographical areas designated in the offer. Offerors must submit and include in their pricelist a list of names and addresses of service representatives responsible to the contractor. This list remains effective unless the list is subsequently modified by mutual agreement between the contractor and the Contracting Officer. The contractor must repair or replace equipment within nine (9) working hours after a written or oral notice of a breakdown in equipment is received by the contractor, unless otherwise specified by the using activity. If not, deductions of rental charges will be made on the basis of 1/30th of the monthly rate for each day the equipment is inoperative. The contractor shall grant a credit to the Government for any machine, which fails to perform at an effectiveness level 90% during any month. The effectiveness level for a machine is computed by dividing the total productive time by the sum of that time plus machine failure downtime. The credit shall be a percentage amount of the fixed monthly rental charge, which is determined by subtracting the actual percentage of effectiveness level attained during the month from 100. (Examples: if the effectiveness level for a machine is 87% for the month the credit would be 13% of the fixed monthly rental charge; if the effectiveness level is 90% or higher there is no credit due under this provision). Any downtime, for which credit is granted in accordance with the paragraph above, shall be excluded from the effectiveness level computation. Each offeror must provide the reliability factor for each model offered. In the event that a machine is inoperative, due to machine failure, through no fault or negligence of the Government, and the total number of hours of downtime exceeds ten percent (10%) of the total productive use time for three consecutive calendar months, the Government reserves that right to require the contractor to replace the machine or terminate the order with no termination or removal charges. The purchase option credits for the replacement machines shall not be less than the credits accrued from the date of installation of the original machine, regardless of whether the replacement is made at the request of the Government or for the convenience of the contractor. Maintenance and Inspection (Postage Meters) U.S. Postal Service regulations require contractors to inspect the meter and to imprint .00 test meter stamps, and require customers to make the meter and the users postage purchase records and/or receipts immediately available for examination and audit by the U.S. Postal Service or by the contractor upon request. The customer must ensure that the meter is run only at its normal rate of speed. The customer must not make any upgrades or attachments to the equipment. If repair or replacement is needed the customer must notify the contractor. Orders A written order shall be the only basis for rental in accordance with these terms and conditions. Period Orders for rental shall cover only the period of use of the equipment. Rental charges shall commence on the next working day on which the equipment is installed and ready to operate. Once the order is placed, it will continue in effect during the remainder of the agreed rental contract period depending upon availability of government funds. If the requirement for the service/equipment is discontinued, transferred, or otherwise changed to the extent that the

Page: 3 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

original requirement no longer exists, the Government may cancel the order upon thirty (30) days written notice to the contractor. Payment to the contractor shall be restricted to the actual period the equipment was in use, prorated on the basis of twelve (12) calendar months to the contract year, thirty (30) days to the month.

Payment Rental charges shall be computed on the basis of thirty (30) days a month. Charges for fractional parts of a calendar month are to be computed at the rate 1/30 of the monthly charge for each day the equipment is installed and ready for use. Sales: $1,940,830 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532420 Description Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $30 million

51 55 --- Rental Plan for Copiers
This SIN includes rental plans for all copier equipment. Rental rates cover unrestricted normal use of the rented equipment up to the maximum number of copies (e.g., number of copies per month) identified in the rental agreement. An excess charge per copy is usually accessed for copies over the maximum number of copies provided for under the rental agreement. The rental rate includes full maintenance service (repairs, adjustments, replacements) by authorized service technicians, at no additional cost to the customer. Rental rates do not usually include the cost of consumable supplies. NOTE: Copiers rented under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: RENTAL PLAN FOR COPIERS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) 51 55 LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $5,514,373 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532299 532420 Description All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $7 million $30 million

51 56 --- Repair of Government-Owned Equipment (all equipment covered

Page: 4 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

under this schedule) for equipment not under Maintenance Service Agreement
This SIN covers repair of any type of copier equipment offered under this schedule and not covered under a maintenance service agreement. Includes directly related attachments, supplies and accessories. NOTE: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES UNDER SIN 51 56 Repair Services (remedial) includes of those unscheduled (call basis) service calls for repairs not caused by fire, water, accident, power line outrages or abuse by the agency. This service includes cost of labor, replacement parts and supplies (excluding expendable operating supplies). Offeror must have available or have authorized access to all new parts, or remanufactured, replacement parts and provide all labor required to maintain proper operation of the designated equipment.. IN THE PRICELIST, offeror shall identify prices for all services offered herein and list of names, addresses and phone numbers of authorized dealers responsible for maintenance services. Only those dealers provided may render service, unless the list is subsequently modified. Charges for services will be computed on the basis of the time during which repairmen are actually engaged in work, plus charges for required parts, regardless of whether repairs are performed at a Government office or at a contractor's shop. When a Government department or agency on two or more pieces of equipment located in one or more buildings within walking distance of each other orders repairs, the charges will be computed from the time the repairman commences work on the first piece of equipment until the work is completed on the last piece of equipment. The time consumed in going between equipment or buildings must be reasonable. The bill must state the location where the maintenance service was performed. All parts use in connection of maintenance service must be new and the contractor will apply the awarded discount. General Requirements GEOGRAPHIC SERVICE AREAS: Offeror shall list below equipment offered and the geographic areas covered. Equipment (Make/Model) _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ Geographic Areas ____________________ ____________________ ___________________

Service Services must be rendered within nine (9) working hours) after a written or oral notification. Pick up services for equipment under maintenance, must be made within 3 working days after notification is received. In the event, that the location of the equipment has been changed, the ordering office will advise the contractor immediately. Agency Installation

Page: 5 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Prior to acceptance of any equipment for maintenance service agreement, an inspection visit will be performed at no additional charge to the Government. The government will make arrangements for the contractor to perform a pre-inspection visit in order to ascertain if obvious abuse or damage exists. All equipment and maintenance inspection visits will be required through the end of the agreement. FAILURE TO PERFORM INSPECTION SERVICE AS STIPULATED IN THE CONTRACT (UNLESS UNLIMITED REPAIRS CALLS ARE ALLOWED) WILL RESULT IN A DEDUCTION OF 1/12 OF THE YEARLY RATE FOR EACH MONTH OF SUCH DELAY. FURTHER FAILURE TO TENDER EMERGENCY SERVICE WITHIN NINE (9) WORKING HOURS (MAXIMUM) AFTER WRITTEN OR ORAL NOTIFICATION, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, WILL BE SUBJECT TO A DEDUCTION OF 1/30 OF THE MONTHLY RATE FOR EACH DAY THE EQUIPMENT IS INOPERATIVE. The performance period shall begin within one week of the installation date (unless, delayed in accordance with provision entitled a delay of start of performance period and shall end when the equipment has met the standards of performance for period of thirty (30) consecutive days by operating in conformance with the contractors technical specifications and functional descriptions at an effectiveness level of 90% to 95% or more.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL GRANT A CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT FOR ANY MACHINE THAT FAILS TO PERFORM AT AN EFFECTIVE LEVEL OF 90% DURING ANY MONTH. Any non-performance must be corrected within 30 days of notification from the agency request. If the performance is not corrected within 60 days of written notice, the Government may terminate the agreement and request immediate removal of the equipment. The offeror shall grant a credit to the agency for any machine, which fails to perform at an effectiveness level of 90% during any month. The effectiveness level for a machine is computed by dividing the total productive time, by the sum of that time, plus machine failure downtime. The credit shall be a percentage amount of the fixed monthly maintenance charge, which is determined by subtracting the actual percentage of effectiveness level attained during the month from 90%. Example: if the effectiveness level for a machine if 87% for the month, the credit would be 3% of the fixed monthly maintenance charge; if the effectiveness level is 90% or higher, there is no credit due under this provision. It is the responsibility of the Government to prove default. Sales: $76,720 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 333249 811212 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing Computer and Office Machine Repair and Maintenance Business Size 500 employees 500 employees $25.5 million

51 57 --- Maintenance Service Agreement For Copiers
This includes a maintenance service agreement consists of preventative and repair (remedial) services. Preventative consists of those scheduled service calls necessary to maintain the equipment in first-class operating condition (e.g., cleaning, lubricating, adjusting, and replacing parts when needed). Repair (remedial) services consist of those unscheduled service

Page: 6 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

calls necessary for repairs not caused by fire, water, accident, and fluctuations in electrical power or customer abuse. The Maintenance Service Agreement and Repair Service include the cost of labor, transportation, replacement/spare parts, (excluding consumable operating supplies). The greater the distance from the maintenance facility to the user the higher the monthly fees. In the event the Government's equipment requires initial repair or overhaul prior to acceptance by the contractor for coverage under a maintenance service agreement, the charges for such repairs, including replacement parts and labor, and for a complete rebuilding or overhauling of Government's equipment are usually not included in the preventative service agreement. NOTE: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SERVICE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT SINs: 51-57 & 51-208 Maintenance Service Agreement includes an annual preventative maintenance on Government-Owned Equipment. The Preventative Maintenance covers scheduled service calls necessary to maintain the equipment in first-class operating condition (e.g., inspect, test, clean; lubricate, adjust and replace parts when needed) that are designed to reduce equipment failure and extend useful life. For equipment other than copiers, the preventative and repair maintenance agreement may be different and offered in accordance with the agreement between the agency and the contractor will be outlined n the agreement based on their requirements. The price outlined in the maintenance agreement will be established based on the agency's specified needs. IN THE PRICELIST, offerors must identify prices for all services and a list of dealers names, addresses, and phone number of authorized dealers responsible for maintenance. Maintenance Services offered for 51 208 shall be in accordance with commercial practices. General Requirements GEOGRAPHIC SERVICE AREA: Offeror must be competent to service equipment within the scope of the resultant contract or to specific geographic areas. Offeror shall list below equipment offered and the geographic areas covered. Equipment (Make/Model) _________________________ _________________________ ________________________ Geographic Area ____________________ ____________________ ___________________

Service Services must be rendered within nine (9) working hours after a written or oral notification. Pick up services for equipment under maintenance, must be made within 3 working days after notification is received. In the event, that the location of the equipment has been changed, the ordering office will advise the contractor immediately. Agency Installation Prior to acceptance of any equipment for maintenance, an inspection visit will be performed at no additional charge to the Government. The government will make arrangements for the

Page: 7 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

contractor to perform a pre-inspection visit in order to ascertain if obvious abuse or damage exists. All equipment and maintenance inspection visits will be required through the end of the agreement. FAILURE TO PERFORM INSPECTION SERVICE AS STIPULATED IN THE CONTRACT (UNLESS UNLIMITED REPAIRS CALLS ARE ALLOWED) WILL RESULT IN A DEDUCTION OF 1/12 OF THE YEARLY RATE FOR EACH MONTH OF SUCH DELAY. FURTHER FAILURE TO TENDER EMERGENCY SERVICE WITHIN NINE (9) WORKING HOURS (MAXIMUM) AFTER WRITTEN OR ORAL NOTIFICATION, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, WILL BE SUBJECT TO A DEDUCTION OF 1/30 OF THE MONTHLY RATE FOR EACH DAY THE EQUIPMENT IS INOPERATIVE. The performance period shall begin within one week of the installation date (unless, delayed in accordance with provision entitled a delay of start of performance period and shall end when the equipment has met the standards of performance for period of thirty (30) consecutive days by operating in conformance with the contractors technical specifications and functional descriptions at an effectiveness level of 90% to 95% or more. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL GRANT A CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT FOR ANY MACHINE THAT FAILS TO PERFORM AT AN EFFECTIVE LEVEL OF 90% DURING ANY MONTH. Any non-conformance must be corrected within 30 days of notification by the agency. If the performance is not corrected within 60 days of written notice, the Government may terminate the agreement and request immediate removal of the equipment. The offeror shall grant a credit to the agency for any machine, which fails to perform at an effectiveness level of 90% during any month. The effectiveness level for a machine is computed by dividing the total productive time, by the sum of that time, plus machine failure downtime. The credit shall be a percentage amount of the fixed monthly maintenance charge, which is determined by subtracting the actual percentage of effectiveness level attained during the month from 90%. Example: if the effectiveness level for a machine if 87% for the month, the credit would be 3% of the fixed monthly maintenance charge; if the effectiveness level is 90% or higher, there is no credit due under this provision. It is the responsibility of the Government to prove default. Sales: $136,202,134 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : J074 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532299 532420 811212 Description All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Computer and Office Machine Repair and Maintenance Business Size $7 million $30 million $25.5 million

51 58 --- Lease to Ownership Plans (LTOP) Copiers
Lease-to-Ownership Plans (LTOP) are intended for customers who want to lease all types of copiers to secure ownership. At the end of the lease period and upon final payment of all charges due, the Title: and the leased equipment is immediately transferred from the contractor to the government customer. The lease rate does not include the cost of maintenance or consumable supplies. Maintenance service is offered under SIN 51 57 Maintenance Service Agreements (Copier). NOTE: Copiers leased under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the

Page: 8 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: LEASING OF GENERAL PURPOSE COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $19,237,712 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : W074 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532299 532420 Description All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $7 million $30 million

51 58A --- Operating Lease Plan For Copiers
This SIN includes Operating Lease plans under SIN 51 58a are applicable to copiers only. An operating Lease plan allows Federal customers to lease the equipment for a monthly rate over a period of time, with NO intent to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease agreement period. Ownership of the asset remains with the lessor. Consumable supplies are available for copier equipment under SIN 51 101 2. Consumable supplies and maintenance service shall be billed as a separate and additional charge. NOTE: Copiers leased under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: LEASING OF GENERAL PURPOSE COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $48,847,948 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : W074 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532299 532420 Description All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $7 million $30 million

51 58B --- Operating Lease Plan - (All Other Products)
This SIN includes Operating Lease plans under SIN 51 58b are applicable to all other products (e.g., laboratory imaging systems, mailroom equipment, typewriters, darkroom w/equipment and supplies, network optical systems) under this schedule with the exception of copiers. Operating Lease Plan for copiers are accepted under SIN 51 58a. Operating Lease plan allows Federal customers to lease the equipment for a monthly rate over a period of time, with NO intent to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease agreement period. Ownership of the

Page: 9 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

asset remains with the lessor. Maintenance is not included under this SIN and therefore may be acquired under SIN 51 57. Consumable supplies are not included under this SIN. NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: LEASING OF GENERAL PURPOSE COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $341,324 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : W074 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 532299 532420 Description All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $7 million $30 million

51 100 --- Copiers
This SIN includes analog, engineering, digital/multifunctional copiers having single-color and/or full-color imaging in both desktop and console configurations. Analog copier has only copying capability. Digital/Multifunctional copiers have capabilities such as copying, printing, faxing, scanning to print/file, and/or facsimile with post finishing solutions connected to individual and network stations with solutions. The Multi-functional digital copier may have integrated functional capabilities or have modular expansion capabilities that permits functional upgrading. Both analog and digital/multifunctional copiers may have image enhancement capabilities (e.g., image magnification, reduction, contrast), paper handling capabilities (e.g., automatic paper selection, multiple paper trays, duplexing, collating), and/or document finishing capabilities (e.g., stapling, folding, punching). Copier speeds vary from under 25 copies per minute to over 100 copies per minute with copying volumes from under 1,000 copies per month to over 450,000 copies per month. Engineering copier also includes both analog and digital copiers (e.g., copiers capable of using transparent and opaque originals to produce plain paper, vellum or polyester film copies and capable of copying A to E size drawings. Full color, non-laser copiers, and other non-standard copier equipment (e.g., copy boards and easels) are included. It also includes copy control devices and systems for equipment under this SIN that can be used to limit copier access to authorize users and to record copier usage. The devices include mechanical and electrical copy-controls (e.g., key counters, cartridges, interface kits) and copy-control systems (e.g., central data collection units, and related connection devices as an integrated package). Transparency film is available under SIN 51 101 7 and consumable supplies are available under SIN 51 101 2. This SIN includes directly related attachments, accessories and supplies. (Note: Interactive Electronic Whiteboards are offered under SIN 20 300. NOTE: Copiers purchased under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. Sales: $61,309,518 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610

Page: 10 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 333316 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees 1000 employees

51 100C --- Cost-per-Copy Plan for Copiers (to include Analog, Digital, Multifunctional and Engineer Copiers)
This SIN includes cost-per-copy plans; the customer identifies the guaranteed minimum number of copies required per month and the required functional capability of the copier equipment. As necessary to satisfy the customer's requirements, the contractor provides the required copier equipment, including accessories, attachments, copy-control devices and systems, all consumable supplies (except copying paper and transparency films), and full-service maintenance including repair parts. The customer pays a fixed monthly fee based on the customer's guaranteed minimum number of copies per month. For copies over the guaranteed minimum, the customer pays an additional fee for each copy made. NOTE: Copiers leased under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. NOTE: Offerors shall indicate below the make and model(s) of the copier for each volume band and tier. No limit is place on the number of models entered in the space provided. If additional space is needed, please use a separate page per Volume Band. Volume Band I Copier Model(s) Tier 1 (1-24) Tier 2 (25-99) Tier 3 (100-199) Tier 4 (200-299) Tier 5 (300-500) Volume Band II Copier Model(s) Tier 1 (1-24) Tier 2 (25-99) Tier 3 (100-199) Tier 4 (200-299) Tier 5 (300-500) NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COPIER EQUIPMENT LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $11,029,036 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 333249 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees 500 employees

51 100F --- Flat Rate Monthly Fee Copying Plan For Copiers
This SIN includes flat-rate monthly-fee plans; the customer identifies the approximate number of copies required per month (i.e., monthly volume level) and the required functional capability of the copier equipment. As necessary to satisfy the customer's requirements, the

Page: 11 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

contractor provides the required copier equipment, accessories, attachments, copy-control devices and systems, all consumable supplies (except copying paper and transparency films), and full maintenance services including repair parts. The customer pays a flat-rate monthly fee for copier, regardless of the number of copies made each month. NOTE: Copiers leased under this SIN with speeds under 100 copies per minute must meet the energy efficiency requirements set forth in ENERGY STAR specifications. NOTE: Offerors shall indicate below the make and model(s) of copier(s), accessories, attachments and copy control device(s) offered for each volume band and tier. No limit is placed on the number of models, which may be entered in the space provided. Please provide the following format for each Volume Band and accessory offered. Please use a separate page per volume band. Volume Band I Copier Model(s) Tier 1 (1-24) Tier 2 (25-99) Tier 3 (100-199) Tier 4 (200-299) Tier 5 (300-500) Volume Band II Copier Model(s) Tier 1 (1-24) Tier 2 (25-99) Tier 3 (100-199) Tier 4 (200-299) Tier 5 (300-500) NOTE: YOU MUST COMPLY WITH NOTE: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COPIER EQUIPMENT LISTED ON ATTACHMENT "ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SCHEDULE 36" Sales: $28,371,443 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 333249 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees 500 employees

51 101 2 --- Consumable Supplies for Copiers, Computers Printers and Fax Machines
This SIN includes directly related supplies (e.g., toner developer, dry ink, dry imager, fuser oil and fusing rollers, cleaning blades, pickoff fingers, photoconductors, photoreceptor belts and drums, staples wire, binder material, binder adhesive) for the copier equipment available under 51 100. Other directly related consumable supplies for computer printers and fax machines are toner, developer, and new manufactured single-and full-color toner cartridges) for laser and inkjet computer printers, fax machines and systems. This SIN does not include copier paper or transparency films for copiers. Transparency films are available under SIN 51 101 7. NOTE: A VENDOR MUST OFFER EQUIPMENT UNDER SIN 51 100 IN ORDER TO OFFER CONSUMABLE SUPPLIES UNDER SIN 51 101 2. ALL OFFERORS INTERESTED IN PROPOSING SUPPLIES ONLY MUST SUBMIT A PROPOSAL UNDER THE GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION SCHEDULE 75-OFFICE PRODUCTS/SUPPLIES AND SERVICES AND NEW PRODUCTS/TECHNOLOGY SOLICITATION., SIN 75 200 OFFICE PRODUCTS.

Page: 12 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Sales: $4,524,081 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 325910 325992 424120 Description Printing Ink Manufacturing Photographic Film, Paper, Plate and Chemical Manufacturing Stationary and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers Business Size 500 employees 500 employees 100 employees

51 101 7 --- Transparency Film
This SIN includes wide range of transparency film - Xerographic Type - designed for single and color copiers, Thermal Type - designed for different image and background colors (e.g., infrared transparency film and Special Types - Transparency films (excluding xerographic and thermal films) for making special transparencies (e.g., transparency films for use with Laser, Inkjet, and Dot Matrix character printers, opaque films, write-on films, and thermal transfer films for use with computer generated graphics for color transparencies). This SIN includes directly related accessories, attachments (e.g., mounts, and supplies). NOTE: *SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE SIN* Sales: $0 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: Yes FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333316 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

51 208 --- Maintenance Service Agreement For all Other Equipment Repair, replacement, and spare parts for equipment other than copiers, including their associated accessories and attachments.
A maintenance service agreement consists of preventative and repair (remedial) services. Preventative consists of those scheduled service calls necessary to maintain the equipment in first-class operating condition (e.g., cleaning, lubricating, adjusting, and replacing parts when needed). Repair (remedial) service consist of those unscheduled service calls necessary for repairs not caused by fire, water, accident, fluctuations in electrical power or the customer. The maintenance service agreement includes the cost of labor, replacement parts, and supplies (excluding expendable operating supplies). In the event the Government's equipment requires initial repair or overhaul prior to acceptance by the contractor for coverage under a maintenance service agreement, the charges for such repairs, including replacement parts and labor, will usually not be covered under the initial maintenance service agreement. In addition, charges for labor and replacement parts for complete rebuilding or overhauling of the Government's equipment are usually not included in the maintenance service agreement. NOTE: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SERVICE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT SINs

Page: 13 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

51-57 & 51-208 Maintenance Service Agreement includes an annual preventative maintenance on Government-Owned Equipment. The Preventative Maintenance covers scheduled service calls necessary to maintain the equipment in first-class operating condition (e.g., inspect, test, clean; lubricate, adjust and replace parts when needed) that are designed to reduce equipment failure and extend useful life. For equipment other than copiers, the preventative and repair maintenance agreement may be different and offered in accordance with the agreement between the agency and the contractor and will be outlined in the agreement based on their requirements. The price outlined in the maintenance agreement will be established based on the agency's specified needs. IN THE PRICELIST, offerors must identify prices for all services and a list of dealers names, addresses, and phone number of authorized dealers responsible for maintenance. Maintenance Services offered for 51 208 shall be in accordance with commercial practices. General Requirements GEOGRAPHIC SERVICE AREA: Offeror must be competent to service equipment within the scope of the resultant contract or to specific geographic areas. Offeror shall list below equipment offered and the geographic areas covered. Equipment (Make/Model) _________________________ _________________________ ________________________ Geographic Area ____________________ ____________________ ___________________

Service Services must be rendered within nine (9) working hours after a written or oral notification. Pick up services for equipment under maintenance, must be made within 3 working days after notification is received. In the event, that the location of the equipment has been changed, the ordering office will advise the contractor immediately. Agency Installation Prior to acceptance of any equipment for maintenance, an inspection visit will be performed at no additional charge to the Government. The government will make arrangements for the contractor to perform a pre-inspection visit in order to ascertain if obvious abuse or damage exists. All equipment and maintenance inspection visits will be required through the end of the agreement. FAILURE TO PERFORM INSPECTION SERVICE AS STIPULATED IN THE CONTRACT (UNLESS UNLIMITED REPAIRS CALLS ARE ALLOWED) WILL RESULT IN A DEDUCTION OF 1/12 OF THE YEARLY RATE FOR EACH MONTH OF SUCH DELAY. FURTHER FAILURE TO TENDER EMERGENCY SERVICE WITHIN NINE (9) WORKING HOURS (MAXIMUM) AFTER WRITTEN OR ORAL NOTIFICATION, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, WILL BE SUBJECT TO A DEDUCTION OF 1/30 OF THE MONTHLY RATE FOR EACH DAY THE EQUIPMENT IS INOPERATIVE. The performance period shall begin within one week of the installation date (unless, delayed in accordance with provision entitled a delay of start of performance

Page: 14 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

period and shall end when the equipment has met the standards of performance for period of thirty (30) consecutive days by operating in conformance with the contractors technical specifications and functional descriptions at an effectiveness level of 90% to 95% or more. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL GRANT A CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT FOR ANY MACHINE THAT FAILS TO PERFORM AT AN EFFECTIVE LEVEL OF 90% DURING ANY MONTH. Any non-conformance must be corrected within 30 days of notification by the agency. If the performance is not corrected within 60 days of written notice, the Government may terminate the agreement and request immediate removal of the equipment. The offeror shall grant a credit to the agency for any machine, which fails to perform at an effectiveness level of 90% during any month. The effectiveness level for a machine is computed by dividing the total productive time, by the sum of that time, plus machine failure downtime. The credit shall be a percentage amount of the fixed monthly maintenance charge, which is determined by subtracting the actual percentage of effectiveness level attained during the month from 90%. Example: if the effectiveness level for a machine if 87% for the month, the credit would be 3% of the fixed monthly maintenance charge; if the effectiveness level is 90% or higher, there is no credit due under this provision. It is the responsibility of the Government to prove default. Sales: $748,676 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : J099 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 323111 532299 532420 811212 Description Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books) All Other Consumer Goods Rental Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Computer and Office Machine Repair and Maintenance Business Size 500 employees $7 million $30 million $25.5 million

51 212 --- Post Copying/Finishing Equipment and Supplies
This SIN includes paper folding, paper gathering, inserting, collating and finishing, paper cutting and all other related equipment. Sales: $1,396,327 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees

51 229 --- Digital Duplicating Equipment
Digital duplicators scan original documents and automatically form an intermediate stencil master that transfers liquid ink to the paper to produce the desired number of copies at speeds

Page: 15 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

up to 150 plus copies per minute. Digital duplicators are capable of fast, large-size copying runs in single- color and/or full-color. When connected directly to a digital computer for desktop publishing applications, many digital duplicators can operate as high-speed (e.g., 120 copies per minute), high-quality printers capable of producing copies equivalent to those produced on high-speed, laser-quality printers with high resolution prints. Digital duplicators fill the gap between conventional copiers, which are used, for a small number of copies and offset presses, which are used, for a large number of copies. For over 25 copies of each original, the cost per copy using a digital duplicator is usually lower than for copies made using a conventional copier. Includes directly related supplies, accessories and attachments (e.g., cabinets, digital duplicator and color drums, automatic document feeders, edit boards, computer interface equipment, paper tray, tape marker, high capacity sheet feeders, interface kits, sorters, tape dispensers, and controllers for imaging processing, spirit fluids, spirit correction fluids, masters, black and color inks, and job separator colored tape. Sales: $57,127 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 323111 333318 Description Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books) Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees 1000 employees

51 409 --- Network, Optical Imaging Systems and Solutions
The user will have the capability to search for documents from a variety of sources such as desktop computer, intranet/internet, LAN/WAN. The software will support the user's needs in capturing data in typed print, handprint, mark sense and barcode, electronic data and paper documents into an electronic format in a reliable, secured operating environment. To enable the user to migrate legacy based unstructured paper and electronic data into an electronic document; the contractor will provide the hardware and software. One of more of the following will be provided by the contractor, software/hardware components into medium of choice: Data and Document Capture, Document Imaging, COLD, Document Management, Storage Management, Document Management Scanner, and other related equipment. Document Solutions Additionally, this SIN includes equipment to include solutions for small to medium-size offices to allow the user to capture, file paper documents and retrieve data in seconds. This reduces the cost of storage and key documents and media. This equipment requires no software installation, just plug and play and can be fully access to the Web browser with ease. Document Storage Solutions are designed to deliver and maintain on/off line storage solutions for users who need to present, share, archive and distribute information on CD, DVD, DVRAM and other related mediums. Ideal to work with popular networking protocols including TCP/IP on Ethernet or Wideband network. Other related equipment may be offered. This SIN includes directly related software, accessories, attachments and supplies. Sales: $3,950,477 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

Page: 16 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

NAICS
Number 333316 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

Group Name: Document Management Products, Systems, Services & Solutions 51 500 --- Managed Print Services
Managed Print Services (MPS) includes equipment and services required to manage imaging output that may include printing, scanning, copying, and fax devices in a system that monitors and reports status, needs and usage trends on regular basis. The MPS plan may be based on a needs analysis completed under SIN 51 501. Services may include but are not limited to creating a business plan solution that incorporates recommendations for each existing piece of equipment (including removing/retirement/recycling/disposal). The plan may be phased to allow for an orderly progression to the new output environment. The plan should take into account the usage and floor plan of the equipment. NOTE: NOTE: Estimated sales are equal to $3,500,000 Sales: $705,880 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 532420 Description Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing Business Size $30 million

51 501 --- Needs Assessment and Analysis Services
Needs Assessment and Analysis Services consist of a comprehensive assessment of the customer's existing objectives, capabilities and, funding obligations which will provide agency's recommendation(s) on how to meet or exceed organization's overall performance by providing total office equipment/document management solutions. Needs Assessment and Analysis Services provide for professional support in analyzing and developing customer requirements. Regardless of the specific approach and strategies described in the technical proposal for each work segment, the work in general shall include consulting services, and other related services. Needs Assessment - The purpose of the needs assessment is to determine the optimal print solution for a particular organization within an agency, based on the existing workflow and output environment. Needs assessments may include data collection from the existing devices, as well as end users. Device data can be collected manually, and/or through data collection tools such as enterprise software deployment and/or USB discovery devices. The data collected in this process will show the amount of output produced for any given organization. Identification of these needs will assist in pricing and establishing best value criteria for the implementation phase, and analyze the footprint of the defined fleet to determine optimal placement of equipment. Fleet Assessment - Fleet assessments shall include the collection of device information and

Page: 17 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

performance data on the defined fleet through manual assessments and/or software deployment. Assessments shall also include surveys and floor plans of all devices. This phase should identify the equipment (and related MIB data) that may or may not be covered by available MPS software suites. Fleet assessments should identify potential software compatibility issues with non-native software deployments, and individual and total energy consumption of the existing fleet. Sales: $8,578,945 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 541370 541611 Description Surveying and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services Business Size $14 million $14 million

51 503 --- Education and Training Support Services
Education and training support services provide the customer with a comprehensive knowledge (e.g., operational capabilities, user-training, maintenance training, repair techniques) of products offered herein (e.g., color copiers, computer-enhanced copiers, special-application copiers, multi-functional digital copiers, duplicators, high-speed printers, scanners, digital cameras, software applications, photographic laboratories, shredding machines, mailmobile delivery systems, media storage, network and optical systems), procedures, processes, and applications. Services may include (e.g., destruction, document conversion, records management and photographic) Training may be offered in various forms: (e.g., onsite/offsite, CD ROM based training, interactive on-line training). Note: Training of personnel that is required to be provided at initial installation or during the course of the contract and training that is normally provided by the contractor to commercial and/or government customers (at no additional cost to the customer) is not included. NOTE: Offerors shall provide a schedule of available training courses offered. Offerors shall indicate the minimum number of participants per course. Courses shall include all costs for the minimum number of participants. In cases where less than the minimum number of students participates, and the ordering agency has paid for the minimum indicated, any excess material becomes the property of the agency. The types of training may be standard and/or customized to meet the agency's need but must be directly related to the product lines covered under this schedule. Use one sheet per course unless information for different courses is identical. If it is identical, then the applicable courses must be attached to the front of each of the following price data sheets submitted. (i.e., only one sheet as follows is required for each set of identical data, regardless of number of courses offered). Training must be directly related to the product lines under this schedule.

Schedule of Training

Page: 18 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Course Price Data Sheet Title of Course: _________________________________________________________

Length of Course (Number of Hrs/Days): __________________________________________ Total Price of Course for Minimum Number of Participants: $_____________ Minimum Number of Participants: _________________ Commercial/Non-Governmentt Price: ____________ Applicable Governmentt % Discount ____________ (if applicable) Price Per Each Addition Participant in Excess of the Minimum: $________________ (i.e., If the total price of the course is $100 and the minimum number of participants is 10, then the base price of the course is $10 per participant. However, the price for additional students is $1.00 each, up to the maximum number of participants (if applicable). (if applicable) Quantity Discount for _____%_____qty _____% additional participants in excess of _____%_____qty _____% the minimum: _____qty _____% _____qty _____%_____qty _____qty _____%_____qty _____%_____qty

(i.e., If the total price of the course is $100 and the minimum number of participants is 10, then the base price of the course is $10 per participant. However, the price for 11-15 students is $9.50 each then the discount for 11-15 students is 5%. If the price for 16-20 participants is $9.00 each then the discount for 16-20 participants is 10%) Maximum Number of Participants (if applicable): _________________ STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW) FOR 51 503 EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUPPORT SERVICE (ETSS) SCOPE The Contractor shall provide training courses normally available to commercial customers, which will permit government users full, efficient use of the commercial products available in this solicitation. ETSS shall provide the Government comprehensive knowledge (e.g., operational capabilities, user training, maintenance training, repair techniques) of equipment (e.g., color copiers, computer-enhanced copiers, engineer copiers, multi-function digital photocopiers, duplicators, high speed printers, scanners, mail management equipment, photographic equipment, etc.) and software applications. Training under this SIN must be standard or customized commercial courses on the use of the equipment and must not include coursework on principles of records management, either commercial or government. Training of user personnel that is required to be provided under the contract (e.g., at initial installation) and training that is normally provided by the contractor to commercial and/or government customers at no additional cost to the customer. Contractors may provide customized training and/or off the shelf training packages as well as-off-the shelf training packages customized to the agency's specific needs related to the operational capabilities, user training and

Page: 19 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

maintenance training of document management equipment. Customization of off-the-shelf training may include but is not limited to: workbooks; training manuals; slides; videotapes; overhead transparencies, advanced presentation media; and state-of-the art computer based training. The Contractor shall provide training at the Contractor's facility and/or at the Government's location, as agreed to by the Contractor and the Government. ORDER Written orders, EDI orders (GSA Advantage! and FACNET), credit card orders, and orders placed under blanket purchase agreements (BPAs) shall be the basis for the purchase of training courses in accordance with the terms of this contract. Orders shall include the student's name, course title, course date and time, and contracted dollar amount of the course.

SCHEDULING The Government will notify the Contractor at least fourteen (14) days before the scheduled training date, if a student will be unable to attend. The Contractor will then permit the Government to either cancel the order or reschedule the training at no additional charge. In the event the training class is rescheduled, the Government will modify its original training order to specify the time and date of the rescheduled training class. In the event the Government fails to cancel or reschedule a training course within the time frame. The Government will be liable for the contracted dollar amount of the training course. The Contractor agrees to permit the Government to reschedule a student who fails to attend a training class within ninety (90) days from the original course date, at no additional charge. The Government reserves the right to substitute one student for another up to the first day of class. In the event the Contractor is unable to conduct training on the date agreed to by the Contractor and the Government, the Contractor must notify the Government at least seventy-two (72) hours before the scheduled training date. FOLLOW-UP SUPPORT The Contractor agrees to provide each student with unlimited telephone support for a minimum period of 6 months from the completion of the training course. During this period, the student may contact the Contractor's customer service representative for refresh assistance and answers to related course curriculum questions. INVOICES AND PAYMENT Invoices for training shall be submitted by the Contractor after Government completion of the training course. Charges for training must be paid in arrears (31 U.S.C. 3324). PROMPT PAYMENT DISCOUNT, IF APPLICABLE, SHALL BE SHOWN ON THE INVOICE. FORMAT AND CONTENT OF TRAINING The Contractor shall provide written materials (i.e., manuals, handbooks, texts, etc.) normally provided with course offerings. Such documentation will become the property of the student

Page: 20 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

upon completion of the training class. The Contractor shall provide each student with a Certificate of Training at the completion of each training course. The Contractor shall provide the following information for each training course offered: The course title and the brief description of the course content, to include the course format (e.g., lecture, discussion, hands-on training); The length of the course; Mandatory and desirable prerequisites for student enrollment; The minimum and maximum number of students per class; The locations where the course is offered; Class schedules; and Price (per student, per class (if applicable)). For those courses conducted at the Government's location, instructor travel charges (if applicable), including mileage and daily living expenses, must be indicated below. Rates paid as a result of travel must comply with the Federal Travel Regulation or Joint Travel Regulations, as applicable, in effect on the date(s) the travel is performed. Contractors cannot use GSA City Pair Contracts. Sales: $318,226 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : U099 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 611519 Description Other Technical and Trade Schools Business Size $14 million

51 504 --- Records Management Services
Record management services provide a comprehensive capability to solve the complex challenges posed by the movement, manipulation, archiving, security, and management of records. The contractor provides professional management and administrative support personnel having the necessary skills to perform effective record management services for both classified and/or unclassified records. The services are provided using either Government or contractor equipment and facilities or a combination of both. The contractor provides those services necessary to meet the following record management objectives using Government equipment and facilities. The Record management objectives are to maintain the existing file room in a manner that permits the easy location, retrieval, and storage of files. File Organization and Maintenance Services - Generally on-site services i.e., organization of files not for storage, tracking of files, information and documents indexing, scanning, labeling, bar-coding and filing. NOTE: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SIN 51-504 - RECORDS MANAGEMENT SERVICES

Page: 21 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Ordering Agencies are responsible for ensuring that Contractors comply with all (National Archive and Records Administration) NARA Regulations. Purpose: RMS will provide various federal activities technical support and solutions, i.e., file management and file storage, for managing records including files and documents by using state of the art records and information management solutions. This will enable ordering agencies to track, access, and retrieve documents and/or information in a timely manner throughout the entire life cycle of the record. Scope of Work For the purposes of this contract, RMS is divided into two sections: (a) File Organization and Maintenance Services; and (b) Storage Services. The contractor is responsible for providing personnel, materials, software, equipment, and as applicable, facilities to perform all work requirements as will be indicated in an ordering agency's task order. RMS includes the management of records at all stages of the life cycle of the file. Files may be in any medium including electronic. Electronic Records Management (i.e., e-mail messages, word processing documents, and other electronic records) must be in accordance with DOD 5015.2-STD. Certifications of applications are required. Disposal of all documents shall be accomplished through SIN 51 507, Destruction Services. FILE ORGANIZATION AND FILE MAINTENANCE General Requirements: File Organization and Maintenance Services provides intellectual and physical support to enable the Government control of documents or information. It includes the organization of sophisticated documents or information placing them into a simplified filing system in accordance with an ordering agency's needs to improve their existing work environment. Generally, it includes gathering documents and data to be scanned and indexed into a digitized format. However, an ordering agency may simply require updating to an existing file system,maintenance of documents, or filing existing documents or information into a storage media for shipping. STORAGE SERVICES Storage Services provides for preparation of files, pick up, storage and retrieval of documents. Certification: All storage facilities must be certified by the ordering agency(s) as compliant with the standards as set forth in the solicitation prior to award. Security All contractor personnel with access to Government records will be required to sign non-disclosure agreements. Some agencies may require various contractor personnel to obtain a security clearance before receiving access to records. Security clearances, when required on individual orders, will be obtained at the contractor's expense. Due to the nature and sensitivity of the documents that will be handled by the contractor, care must be given to safeguarding files whether on or off the contractor-provided records storage facilities. Confidentiality of records must be kept at all times. Specific Tasks: Records Retrieval A. Within one working day (or as established by the individual task order) of receiving a reference request, orally or in writing, from the agency, the contractor must retrieve the requested records and deliver to the agency requestor. B. The contractor must provide emergency reference services (retrieval services outside business hours) if required by an ordering agency including all services listed in this section, 24 hours each day, every day of the year. Emergency services are defined as services provided beyond the normal operation hours of the contractor's facility. After notification, the required

Page: 22 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

response time will be a maximum of 2 hours. Any shipment under emergency services will be handled direct delivery within 8 hours, unless otherwise specified in the task order. The contractor must provide emergency service phone numbers for all sites utilized to the ordering agency's contracting officer within 30 days after award of the contract. Appropriate numbers must be issued to the individual agency epresentative upon award of each task order. Accessioning of Records: Accessioning is the processing of records coming into the facility. The contractor must be able to accession paper records in a variety of containers. Recognizing that Governmental Agencies may have other media/formats, such as audiovisual (e.g., photographs, posters, sound recordings) or x-rays. The contractor should have the capability, to accession these types of media/formats. The Government may ship records to the contractor, or the contractor may pick up records from governmental sites. The contractor will be responsible for maintaining the arrangement of each accession and verifying that the contents of the accession match the accompanying transfer documentation. Inventory Services: From time to time, the contractor may be asked to assist the agency by inventorying agency records. The inventories require data, and will include either listings of individual folders or the numerical or alphabetical span of folders in each box. The inventories must be prepared on location in the Government's space, according to the schedule established by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) for that agency. If travel is required, the contractor will be reimbursed in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations. Pick up Services: A. Within 50 Miles: Within three working days (or as established by the individual task order) of notification by the Government, the contractor must pick up records that have been prepared for transfer from Governmental agencies storage facilities. Only enclosed vehicles shall be used to transport records. B. Outside of 50 Miles: The Contractor may use the GSA Government Bill of Lading (GBL) program to move records from sites more than 50 miles from the corporation site. The Contractor will coordinate these moves unless otherwise directed by the ordering agency. Tracking: Contractor must possess an Automated Records Management tracking system. At a minimum this tracking system should have the capability of reading bar code labels, providing on line access to the contractor's data base and placing reference request electronically. The contractor shall maintain system capability with the requesting agency (agency will provide technical specifications at the task order level). Other General Requirements: Quality Assurance: The Contractor shall have a quality control/quality assurance plan that meets the Government's requirements. The Contractor shall maintain records throughout the contract period concerning the results of its inspections and monitoring procedures and the Contracting Officer or his/her designee shall provide copies of these to the Government upon request. From time to time, the Government may conduct a site visit. These records shall also be made available to the Government when conducting a site visit of the Contractor's premises. GSA will review and make recommendations concerning the report as needed. The reports and related documentation shall be part of the information used and revised on periodic site inspections. During this process the system should have the capability of verifying the accuracy of the documents being manipulated (i.e. whether the correct document is being handled). The Contractors computer system should be user friendly, and windows based to ensure compatibility with standard Government Systems. The Government reserves the right to inspect the contractor's facility at any time it deems necessary to ensure that the standards are maintained throughout the contract period.

Page: 23 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Approval of the storage site shall be performed by the Government. The contractor must possess a commercial facility capable of storing documents within a controlled environment that will ensure the integrity of the document will be kept intact. In addition: A. The contractor must provide reference room facilities in each records center that maintain a normal office environment, including telephone, facsimile, and electrostatic reproduction services. B. Only agency authorized personnel will be granted access to that agency's records in the contractor operated reference rooms. The contractor will verify the identity of the agency authorized personnel and maintain constant surveillance of the reference room when the individual is not an agent of that Government office. Reports Preparation: The contractor must provide monthly reports to the agency including but not limited to reports on holdings, accessions, disposals, records eligible for disposal, transfers in, transfers out, reference, refiles, and photocopying. User's Manuals: The contractor will prepare a User's Manual at no additional cost to the Government, that will describe the detailed procedures to be used by the Government in conducting the accessioning, referencing, filing, and disposal activities described above. The manual will also include an organizational chart providing the point of contact in each contractor facility as well as a single point of contact for nationwide coordination. The Manual will also detail the various reports that are available for Government uses. Personnel Requirements: The contractor shall provide skilled personnel that may include the supervisory, management and administrative services necessary to successfully meet the Government's requirements for Records Management Services per the ordering agency's Task Order. On an as needed basis, the contractor will provide technical advisory services addressing records management issues relating to the entire lifecycle of records. Services that may be required to include, files maintenance, forms design and automated applications. All contractor personnel shall have the necessary clearances to conduct business with customer agencies, if required. Personnel are required to display contractor identification during pick up and delivery. All personnel responsible for transporting federal records shall have a valid driver's license. Sales: $65,507,483 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 493110 541611 561110 561210 561410 Description General Warehousing and Storage Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services Office Administrative Services Facilities Support Services Document Preparation Services Business Size $25.5 million $14 million $7 million $35.5 million $7 million

51 505 --- Document Production On-site and Off-site Services
Document production on-site and off-site services provide customers a practical turn-key solution to a customer's requirements for production of documents. A typical document

Page: 24 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

production service would include the required equipment (e.g., high-volume digital color copiers, scanners) and contractor provided operational and management personnel required for effective on-site/off-site document production. Document production services are available using either contractor provided and installed equipment, using existing Government-owned equipment, or using equipment installed in Government locations under Lease-to-Ownership Plans. In addition, single or multiple shift production operations; consumable supplies (paper and transparencies are usually not included); on-going equipment maintenance; and customized agency reports are included. Negotiated Operational Performance Standards may be jointly developed and included in the purchase order (e.g., job turn-around time, maximum number of impressions per day or month, document quality expectations, turn-around performance and accuracy ratings, management of the consumable supplies, and monthly management reports). NOTE: LABOR RATES Offerors shall specify the labor categories proposed and the rates for each. The categories and rates are to be based on those used to price orders commercially. The total price for services will be established at the time the order is placed and will be based on the prices awarded. The estimated number of hours will be negotiated by the ordering agency, and shown on the resultant order. Contract orders will be firm fixed price. STATEMENT OF WORK FOR SIN 51 505 DOCUMENT PRODUCTION SERVICES (DPS) SCOPE OF WORK The Federal Aquisition Service is soliciting for contractors capable of servicing the Government's requirements for Document Production services (DPS). Contractors shall provide federal activities with a practical turnkey solution to their requirements for the full-range of reproduction and management of document services. Depending on the nature of the customer's requirement, a preliminary Needs Assessment and Analysis Service (NAAS) may be required in order to assess the extent of the customer's requirement to fulfill the customers need for DPS. The primary purpose of the NAAS is to provide professional support in ascertaining and developing the most appropriate and cost efficient methodology to accomplish the customers DPS requirement. The proposed approach may include, but is not limited to, skilled personnel necessary to complete the effort, equipment (government owned, state of the art, remanufactured, or otherwise). The contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a complete written report specifying the recommended DPS. The report shall address, but is not limited to the operational management support services, overall projected cost, and a milestone schedule for acquiring and/or deploying the necessary resources to complete the effort. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS Document Production Services (DPS) - DPS requirements typically provide for reproduction of documents. Offerors shall provide the appropriate skilled personnel and methodology to address the customer NAA or Task Order requirements to implement DPS. A typical document production service includes such services as copying, fax, high quality digital color copying, large format scanning and copying, facilities management, desk top transmission, on-going equipment maintenance and quarterly reports. Government agencies and activities are the customers and requiring activities that initiate the DPS to be performed. DPS

Page: 25 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

requirements are delineated in task orders by customer agencies. Task orders specify the actual DPS to be performed, the dollar value of the contract, period of performance and any other significant factors relative to the requirement. Contractors are advised to confer with customer agencies to ensure compliance with laws, regulations, security clearances etc. prior to implementing the task order. Quality Control/Tracking System - Offerors must possess a quality control system that monitors and ensures the quality of DPS. Such a system shall ensure the highest quality of the impressions or finished DPS on the medium produced by the contractor. Offerors shall have demonstrated past performance history applying contemporary quality control techniques and measures performed on comparable DPS jobs that describes how it will monitor job status, delivery or turn-around time and finished product. Additionally, Offerors shall safeguard the Government's records at all times onsite and offsite Performance Standards Performance standards may be required by customer agencies. Contractor performance standards shall be commensurate with commercial application of standards for a typical DPS requirement. The application of standards may cover job turnaround time, maximum number of impressions per day, month or hour; output quality of the mediums, management of consumable supplies, submission of periodic reports and any other factors of significance to the customer agency. Security Some agencies may require various contractor personnel to obtain a security clearance before receiving access to facilities and information. Security clearances, when required on individual orders, will be obtained at the contractor's expense. Equipment At the discretion of the agency, the equipment necessary to implement DPS may be newly installed or existing government owned property. The equipment may also be installed in government locations under Lease-to-Ownership Plans depending upon the using activity's need, and requirements per task order. The copier equipment may range from low volume to high volume copiers, digital color photocopiers, scanners and other equipment types relative to DPS. Offerors may be required to possess Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) capability for the purpose of receiving, processing, auditing, storing and transmitting electronic data for DPS purposes. In addition, Internet and or personal computer capability may be required. Government Furnished Property The offeror's proposal must state whether such equipment can be furnished or whether it is relying on Government furnished property. For services rendered on Government property, at a minimum, the Government will provide the required space and electricity. Any additional equipment will be determined at the time the task order is placed. Contractors shall be responsible for all costs associated with machine repairs and supplies (for example, toner, paper clips, rubber bands, clamps, etc.), and ordering, delivery and storage of all supplies, the installation and removal of all equipment, and maintenance.

Page: 26 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Equipment Maintenance Requirements The Contractor shall have sole responsibility for maintaining copiers furnished by the contractor and government owned equipment under the resulting contract. Replacement of Equipment The Contractor is responsible for replacing equipment, however under no circumstance does the Contractor have the right to charge any additional costs to the buying agency. Personnel/Requirements The contractor shall determine staffing requirements in accordance with the Needs Assessment Analysis (NAA) or the volume of duplicating to be completed on any given day. Contractors under this Multiple Award Schedule shall provide the necessary skilled personnel including management, supervisory and administrative levels to implement the DPS per customer task order At a minimum the Contractor shall provide for a Project Manager and Duplicating Production Operator. The Project Manager shall serve as the contractor's point of contact and shall be responsible for the management and coordination of the project. The contractor shall ensure that the duplicating facility is adequately staffed and fully operational in accordance with the terms of the task order and shall keep the ordering agency fully advised of any difficulties, which would adversely affect production. The Project Manager shall also be responsible for problem resolution that may result from the operation of the duplicating services. Replacement of Personnel: The Contractor shall provide substitute personnel to perform in the absence (sick leave or vacation) of the On-Site Manager and duplicating production personnel assigned. Substitutes shall perform in complete compliance with the specifications of the individual task order. Experience/Training The contractor shall be responsible for training its employees. The Contractor shall provide skilled personnel capable of operating the required types of equipment. Appearance/Character: Contractor personnel shall present a neat appearance and provide services in a professional and courteous manner while complying with agency applicable rules, regulations, and procedures. Location and Hours of Work Location: Services may be rendered worldwide as determined by individual task orders. The services may be performed on-site or off-site/ the vendor's place of business. The offeror's proposal therefore shall indicate the extent of its capability to implement a DPS requirement at its own facility. On-Site DPS: The Government will provide the space (the Premises) designated by the using

Page: 27 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

agency. The Contractor shall make all improvements required to the space at the Contractor's own expense. The facility shall be kept in an orderly fashion with supplies stored in a safe manner. The Contractor shall be responsible for securing supplies and equipment after regular working hours. Any losses or damage due to unauthorized use of equipment or supplies shall be borne by the contractor. Off-site DPS: The Contractor shall provide the address for the off-site location. Deliverables shall be F.O.B. Destination. Hours of Work: Generally, the facility will be operational between the hours of 7AM and 5PM, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. As an alternative, the ordering agency's individual task order may require the contractor to operate a shift outside of these hours or on weekends in order to meet duplicating requirements. These alternative shifts must be coordinated with the ordering agency in advance to provide building security. Job requests may be made in person, by mail, by telephone, or by fax. No additional charge, service charge, or any other fee shall be imposed for accepting a request by any method set forth above. Sales: $74,380,085 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561210 561439 Description Facilities Support Services Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops) Business Size $35.5 million $7 million

51 506 --- Document Conversion Services
The process of document conversion involves state-of-the-art scanning of the original document's text and graphic image into digital data, which is then transferred to a new media and formatted for use in a document imaging and storage system. Comprehensive DCS are used to transfer text and graphic images in existing documents (e.g., correspondence, files, technical manuals, land records, charts, engineering drawings, legal instruments, etc.) in whatever media they currently exist (e.g., paper, aperture cards, microfiche, microfilm, roll film, etc.) onto a new delivery/ storage media (e.g., CD-ROM disks, 4mm/8mm magnetic tape, magnetic storage disks, aperture cards, microfiche, microfilm, roll film, etc.) in any required format (e.g., raster images, ASCII text, SGML tagged for electronic distribution or publishing, PDF image files, etc.) required for use in a document imaging and storage system. Customized coding and indexing options are also available as part of the document conversion process. This SIN includes transcription and medical transcription services; it excludes transcriptions for Title III Monitoring, which are available under Schedule 738 II, SIN 382 1. NOTE: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SIN 51 506 DOCUMENT CONVERSION SERVICES

Page: 28 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

DESCRIPTION: The process of document conversion involves state-of-the-art scanning of the original document's text and graphic image into digital data, which is then transferred to a new media and formatted for use in a document imaging and storage system. Comprehensive DCS are used to transfer text and graphic images in existing documents (e.g., correspondence, files, technical manuals, land records, charts, engineering drawings, legal instruments, etc.) in whatever media they currently exist (e.g., paper, aperture cards, microfiche, microfilm, roll film, etc.) onto a new delivery/ storage media (e.g., CD-ROM disks, 4mm/8mm magnetic tape, magnetic storage disks, aperture cards, microfiche, microfilm, roll film, etc.) in any required format (e.g., raster images, ASCII text, SGML tagged for electronic distribution or publishing, PDF image files, etc.) required for use in a document imaging and storage system. Customized coding and indexing options are also available as part of the document conversion process. This SIN includes transcription and medical transcription services; it excludes transcriptions for Title III Monitoring, which are available under Schedule 738 II, SIN 382 1.PURPOSE: This Multiple Award Schedule will offer a full range of Document Conversion Services. Contractors shall provide document conversion services in response to individual agency orders. SCOPE: Document conversion consists of scanning document images and converting them into electronic digital data, which is then transferred into a new format, and media for use in a document imaging, retrieval, and storage system. This SOW addresses the "backfile and day-forward conversion" of documents, which includes both file and data format and media conversion. It does not include data processing and communications equipment (e.g., digital computers, display devices, software, LAN/WAN networks), which may be employed in a document imaging, retrieval, and storage system. The types of DCS may include, but is not limited to: - Index data migration - Project evaluation or discovery - Optical mark scanning (OMR) - PDF Electronic file forms - Web Hosting (ASP) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the following general requirements are applicable to document conversion performed under this contract: a. Contractor Responsibility - The Contractor shall be responsible for furnishing all items used in performing the work unless otherwise specified or approved by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor will act independently and not as an agent of the Government. b. Document Conversion - The contractor shall scan a variety of source documents (e.g., correspondence, files, technical manuals, land records, charts, engineering drawings, or legal instruments) from a variety of source media (e.g., paper, film, microfiche, aperture cards, magnetic tape, or Mylar) having varying degrees of image quality (e.g., crisp originals, faded, poor contrast, or overexposed photographs) using character recognition (e.g., OCR, ICR) into a compressed digital file (e.g., C4 compressed image file format) and deliver that file in a variety of output file formats (e.g., PDF, SGML, HTML, XML, CAD, word processing) on a variety of output media (e.g., optical disks, magnetic tape, or CD-ROM). c. Image Enhancement - The contractor shall perform image enhancement immediately after scanning. Image enhancement shall allow soiled, faded, deteriorated, and inferior quality

Page: 29 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

images to be "cleaned-up". The image enhancement process shall reduce background noise and improve uneven line widths, dull edges, faded areas, and uneven illumination. If required by the ordering activity, special image enhancement (e.g., removal of date stamps and other markings, deskewing images to within 5 degrees or less of skew, cropping, rotation) shall be accomplished during the document conversion process. d. Indexing - The contractor shall provide an index (in both hardcopy and digital format) for all converted data. The index shall permit tracking, retrieval, and storage of converted documents. The index shall be as specified by the ordering activity and shall consist, as a minimum, of the document number, document title, page number, revision level, and date. The index shall be structured from the source data and may be incorporated in the raster image header, incorporated as PDF Bookmarks, or provided separately, as specified by the ordering activity. e. Data Entry - The contractor shall provide keystroke data entry, as required. f. Delivery Media - The contractor shall deliver the digitally converted data in an output media (e.g., CD-ROM, 4mm DAT or 8mm magnetic tape; 9-Track 1600 BPI or 6250 BPI magnetic tape; 3.5 inch, 5.25 inch, 12 inch, or 14 inch Write-Once Read-Many (WORM) optical or magnetic disks and/or Write-Many Read-Many optical disks) and output format (e.g., PDF text and/or image files, TIIF, BMP, JPEG, HTML, ASCII text, SGML tagged for electronic distribution or publishing, XML, CAD, word processing), as specified by the ordering activity. Delivery media shall be labeled in such a manner as to identify the contents of the deliverable. g. Source Document Inspection - The contractor shall inspect all source documents and shall notify the ordering activity's Contracting Officer of any condition which will likely prevent successful performance of the work required. Such notification shall be received by the Contracting Officer within ten (10) working days (or as stipulated on the individual agency task order) following receipt of the source documents. h. Quality Assurance - Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the contractor shall perform 100% quality assurance of the scanned images to ensure that an image is produced for each page or microform frame; the image is equal to or better than the readability of the source page or microform frame; and the image is in accordance with the ordering activity's requirements. Marginal images (e.g., due to poor source images or film quality) shall be electronically marked and specified as such in the production reports. All indexing elements and SGML tagged data shall be parsed to ensure compliance with the requirements prior to delivery. Hollerith data shall be verified against the information contained in the title block of the document and will be edited, if necessary, to ensure the accuracy of the fields (e.g., document type, drawing number, drawing revision, sheet revision, card number, number of cards, drawing size, rights code, and security code). The ordering activity reserves the right to perform quality assurance on any products produced under this contract. Failure to meet quality assurance standards will result in re-work at the contractor's expense or contract termination, as appropriate. i. Corrections - Document conversion errors caused by the contractor shall be considered corrections and shall not be charged to the ordering activity as an additional digitized item. Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the contractor shall be liable for corrections for 12 months from output media delivery. j. Workmanship Standards - The quality of services rendered by the contractor shall conform to the standard commercial practice in the document scanning and conversion profession,

Page: 30 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

trade, or field of endeavor. All services shall be rendered by or supervised directly by individuals fully qualified in the document scanning and conversion profession, and holding any licenses required by law. Failure to meet workmanship standards will result in re-work at the contractor's expense or contract termination, as appropriate. k. Basic Preparation and Handling - The contractor shall be responsible for basic document preparation and handling during all phases of the document conversion effort. The pre-conversion effort shall include document receipt, inspection, inventory and document preparation for scanning and conversion (e.g., removing bindings, paper clips, attachments, and fasteners; photocopying oversize or undersize documents; purgingunnecessary information; repairing damaged originals). The conversion effort shall include all necessary document preparation and handling. The post-conversion effort shall consist of reconstruction of the documents including the attachment of fasteners and bindings, reassemble of the documents into their original configuration, preparing a document inventory listing, and packaging/packing for return shipment to the ordering activity. l. Special Preparation and Handling - When special preparation and/or handling requirements are specified by the ordering activity, the contractor shall be responsible for any special document preparation and handling requirements (e.g., staple locations being required to be marked during pre-conversion preparation and the documents being re-stapled using their original staple locations at post-conversion). m. Production Reports - With each delivery, the contractor shall provide a Production Report (in hardcopy and digital format) that describes the data contained on the delivery media. The report shall be provided to the ordering activity's Contracting Officer or COTR and shall contain, at a minimum, the index for each document, number of pages for each document, and total pages. n. Monthly Volume Report - The contractor shall provide a Monthly Volume Report (in hardcopy and digital format). The report shall be provided to the ordering activity's Contracting Officer and shall, at a minimum, list the number of converted documents delivered and the percentage of work completed. o. Final File - The contractor shall provide a final file (in both hardcopy and digital format) upon project completion to the ordering activity's Contracting Officer. The file shall delineate those documents for which conversion has been completed; if applicable, the intermediate format in which the each document has been scanned; the applicable character recognition, compression algorithm, output storage media and file format of the stored image; and an index for all converted data. The index shall, as a minimum, consist of each document number, document title, date, revision level, and page number. This index shall be structured from the source data and may be incorporated in the raster image header, incorporated as PDF Bookmarks, or provided separately, as specified by the ordering activity. p. Backup Copy - The contractor shall maintain a backup copy of all data generated. The backup copy shall be maintained for a period of 12 months after project completion, unless otherwise specified for a different period by the ordering activity. q. Returned Material - Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, all material provided by the ordering activity shall be returned with the delivered product in the same condition (normal wear and tear excepted) and sequence as the original submission. The contractor shall be responsible for shipping costs, unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity.

Page: 31 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

r. Source Document Destruction - Upon termination or completion of all work, the Contractor shall comply with the agency requirements for disposal. All materials produced or delivered will become and remain the property of the Government. When required by the ordering activity, the contractor shall destroy (rather than return) the source documents. s. Classified Documents - The contractor shall be responsible for providing the appropriate handling, distribution, and storage of classified documents in accordance with all applicable security regulations and laws. t. Page Pricing - Unless otherwise specified in the contractor's price proposal, page pricing shall be based on an original source page size of 8.5 inches x 11 inches. Increments for oversize source document pages shall be based on the number of whole or partial 8.5" x 11" pages. u. Drawing Pricing - Unless otherwise specified in the contractor's price proposal, drawing sheet pricing shall be based on the size of the drawing. Increments for oversize drawings shall be based on the number of whole or partial F size drawings. v. Production Facility - Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, production shall be performed at the contractor's facility. If the ordering activity requires scanning of the documents at a designated facility, the contractor shall provide all the necessary resources (e.g., personnel, equipment, material, and supplies) required to accomplish the work, unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity. However, the ordering activity will be responsible for providing adequate space and electrical power at the designated facility. w. Data Rights - All data produced in performance shall be the sole property of the Government. The Contractor agrees not to assert rights at common law or equity and not to establish any claim to statutory copyright in such data in whole or in part in any manner or form nor authorize others to do so, without prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. This does not restrict the use or publication of such data by the Contractor or its employees.

DETAILED REQUIREMENTS: Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the following detailed requirements are applicable to the contractor's document conversion efforts under this contract: a. Scanning - Images shall be scanned at 200 DPI (dots per inch) resolution for engineering drawings, 500 DPI for engineering drawings being converted to CAD, and 300 DPI for all other document types, except photographs, which shall be scanned at 400 DPI. Raster images shall be compressed using CCITT Group 4 algorithms as specified in Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 150 "Facsimile Coding Schemes and Coding Control Functions for Group 4 Facsimile Apparatus", prior to transfer to the storage media. The latest revision of FIPS Publication 150 in effect at the date of the order or as specified by the ordering activity shall be used. Proprietary compression algorithms are not acceptable. Hollerith data shall be read during image scanning and provided as an index to the image. b. Indexing/Coding - The index requirements (e.g., index fields, number of characters, nomenclature for the index fields) shall be specified by the agency. As a minimum (via display of the scanned image), the index shall consist of three fields having a maximum of 30 characters located peripherally on the page.

Page: 32 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

c. Portable Document Format (PDF) Conversion - Adobe Portable Document Format conversion shall be accomplished in compliance with the latest version of the Portable Document Format Reference Manual (e.g., Version 1.3) in effect on the date of the order or as specified by the ordering activity. PDF converted formatted documents shall replicate all visual characteristics and attributes of the source document. Graphics portions of the source document shall be included in the PDF file as raster images. Scanning of graphic portions shall be provided at a resolution of 300 DPI or greater. PDF converted documents shall contain thumbnail files. (1) Image Only Scanned: Source documents shall be raster scanned at 300 DPI. The scanned image shall be a bitmapped image of the original document and shall be equal to the readability of the original page. The images shall be converted to PDF Image Only files prior to being written to the delivery media. (2) Image Plus Edited Text: Source documents shall be raster scanned at 300 DPI. Textual data shall be converted to ASCII utilizing OCR technology. All free standing standard character text larger than 6 point shall be edited to ensure accuracy of 95% or greater. All converted numerics shall have an accuracy of 100%. Graphics shall be provided as 300 DPI raster graphics. The document shall be converted to PDF Plus Text files prior to be written to the delivery media. (3) PDF Normal: Source documents shall be raster scanned at 300 DPI. Textual data shall be converted to ASCII utilizing OCR/ICR technology. All free standing standard character text larger than 6 point shall be edited to insure accuracy of 95% or greater. All converted numerics shall have an accuracy of 100%. Suspect characters shall be corrected. Color images and photographs shall be scanned and inserted. Graphics shall be provided as 300 DPI raster graphics. The original fonts and format of the document shall be maintained. The document shall be converted to PDF Normal files prior to being written to the delivery media. (4) Hyperlinking: Hyperlinks shall be created for each item contained in the content reference pages of the document (e.g., Tables of Contents, Indexes). In addition, hyperlinks shall be created for all intact internal references. Bookmarks and Thumbnails shall be created for each document. PDF Normal processing of the documents is required prior to hyperlinking. (5) Application File: When required by the ordering activity, an application (output) file from PDF converted documents (e.g., in a word processing format) shall be created. Application files shall be created after completion of any PDF document quality assurance and editing. (6) Accuracy: The accuracy requirements for documents converted using optical recognition technology (e.g., OCR, ICR) shall be applicable to each page as specified by the ordering activity. The percent accuracy is defined as the number of correct characters per page (i.e., characters in the converted document that are the same as the corresponding character in the source document) divided by the total number of characters on the page multiplied by 100. d. Standard Graphic Markup Language (SGML) Tagging - Paper documents shall be raster scanned at 300 DPI. Textual data shall be converted to ASCII utilizing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology. All free standing standard character text larger than 6 point shall be proofed and edited to ensure accuracy of 99.5% or greater. All converted numerics shall have an accuracy of 100%. Graphics shall be provided as 300 DPI raster graphics. Tagged data shall be in accordance with the Document Type Definition (DTD) and the Style

Page: 33 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Sheet. Tagged data shall provide 100% parsing against the provided DTD. Intact internal references shall be tagged.

(4) Level I: Level I SGML tagging shall consist of DTDs that are targeted at electronic browsers, which utilize a limited number of tags to describe the basic document. (5) Level II: Level II SGML tagging shall consist of DTDs that are targeted at complex publishing systems which require an increased number of tags, tag attributes, and specific structural relationships to produce the required printed document. e. HyperText Markup Language (HTML) Conversion - Conversion shall be in accordance with the latest version of the W3C Recommendations (e.g., HTML Version 4.0) in effect on the date of order or as specified by the ordering activity.

f. Extensible Markup Language (XML) Conversion - Conversion shall be in accordance with the latest version of the W3C Recommendations (e.g., XML Version 1.0) in effect on the date of the order or as specified by the ordering activity. g. Graphics File Formats (e.g., GIF, JPEG) - The specific graphic file format shall be as specified by the ordering activity. h. Application Files (e.g., Word, CAD, WordPerfect) - The specific application file format shall be as specified by the ordering activity. i. CD-ROM Mastering: Converted data shall be pre-mastered in accordance with ISO 9660, Volume and File Structure of CD-ROM Information Exchange specification using the latest version in effect on the date of the order or as specified by the ordering activity. CD-ROM masters shall be produced in accordance with industry standards as defined in the CR-ROM Yellow Book. j. CD-ROM Replication: Replicas shall mark as specified by the ordering activity. Replicas shall be provided in CD-ROM.

ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS a. ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange). An 8 bit code representing English letters, characters and numbers. Seven bits are used to identify each individual entity (128 maximum) with one bit for parity. Extended ASCII uses of eight bits to represent up to 256 characters with no parity bit. Most computers use ASCII to represent text, which makes it possible to transfer data from one computer to another. b. BMP (BitMaP) - The standard bit-mapped graphics format used in the Windows environment. c. Backfile Conversion - Converts existing files for use in an imaging system. d. BCR (Bar Code Recognition)- The recognition of bar code (i.e., A method of representing data by combining lines of varying width.). e. CCITT (Consultative Committee on International Telephone and Telegraphy)sets standards for phones, faxes, modems, etc.

Page: 34 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

f. COLD (Computer Output to Laser Disk) - The computer system contains files of ASCII data (from input or application programs) or bit-mapped files previously scanned from microfilm documents or pictures. These output files are compress by a factor of 5-20:1 from the original documents and stored on WORM optical/laser disks. g. DTD (Document Type Definition) - A description of the types of tags allowed in a document as well as the order in which they appear. h. FTP (File Transfer Protocol) - An Internet protocol to move files from one computer to another. i. Grayscale - The binary range of a graphic representation between pure black and pure white. A scale of 256 shades of gray will be a better representation than 16 shades. j. HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) - HTML is a W3C standard (i.e., W3C HTML Recommendations) based upon SGML that is designed to specify the logical organization of a document. HTML instructions divide the text of a document into blocks called elements that define how the body of the document is to be displayed by the browser and those that define information about the document (e.g., title, relationship to other documents). Use of HTML instructions is based on detailed rules (e.g., the names of tags/elements, how they can be used), which are defined using SGML. There are three variants of HTML 4.0 (i.e., HTML 4.0 Transitional, HTML 4.0 Strict, and HTML 4.0 Frameset). k. ICR (Intelligent Character Recognition) - The conversion of scanned images (bar codes or patterns of bits) to computer recognizable codes (ASCII characters and files) by means of software/programs, which define the rules of and algorithms for conversion. l. ITU-T - CCITT renamed Telecommunication Standardization Section of the International Telecommunications Union. m. JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) - A compression algorithm for color image files. n. Optical Character Recognition - The computer processing/conversion of scanned images both full text and forms to computer recognizable codes (ASCII letter, numbers, and characters). o. PDF (Portable Document File) - PDF is a standard (i.e., Portable Document Format Reference Manual) provides a way of distributing, viewing, and printing documents with consistent appearance across a number of computer platforms. Files created from printed documents closely match the paper version including graphics, photographs, and fonts and are compressed for easy downloading and distribution. To view a .pdf file, an Adobe Acrobat Reader must be installed on the computer. p. SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language) - SGML is an ISO Standard (i.e., ISO 8879), which delineates a methodology of describing architecture for information exchange. SGML is a synthesis of three things: A Document Type Definition (DTD), a style sheet, and tagged data. The DTD describes which tags are allowed. The style sheet describes how the corresponding tag is to be formed. The tagged data is the document, in which every piece of data is "tagged", using tags defined in the DTD and Style Sheet. q. Style Sheet - Describes how the SGML tag is to be formed.

Page: 35 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

r. TIFF (Tagged Image File Format) - One of the most widely supported files formats for storing bit-mapped images (8-bit color and grayscale) on personal computers. Includes several types and groups, which are compressed and uncompressed. s. XML (extensible Markup Language) - XML is a W3C standard (i.e., W3C XML Recommendations) that could revolutionize the way intranet applications and document and non-document content are built and managed. XML promises "write once, publish anywhere" simplicity to users who don't have to become experts in Web programming languages. XML is an "instance" of SGML. t. WORM (Write Once Read Many) - Permanent optical storage method where data once written, cannot be erased or altered. u. W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) - W3C is an international industry consortium, which was founded in 1994 to lead the World Wide Web in developing common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its interoperability. W3C develops standards, which are published in the form of Recommendations. Sales: $30,686,065 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 518210 541611 561410 Description Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services Document Preparation Services Business Size $25 million $14 million $7 million

51 507 --- Destruction Services
Destruction services include both on-site and off-site services of classified (e.g., confidential, secret and top secret), unclassified (example: phone list, floor plans, inter-office documents) and personal identifiable information (example: pay records, medical records, financial statements) of hard copy media (e.g., paper, folders, newspapers, catalogs, magazines, maps, envelopes, manuals, ID cards, microfilm, microfiche, photographs, photographic negatives, blue prints and technical drawings), electronic media (e.g., electro-magnetic tapes, hard drives, floppy disks, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM) and subscriber identity module (SIM), and optical mass storage media (e.g., CD/DVD, flash drives and holographic storage.) Destruction techniques may include but are not limited to all of the following: shredding, pulverization, disintegration, purging, pulping and incineration. NOTE: NOTE: CHART - LABOR RATES Labor Category, Government Discount, Commercial Rate Hourly/Daily On/site, Commercial Rate Hourly/Daily Off/site, Government Rate Hourly/Daily On/site, Government Rate Hourly/Daily Off/site IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON A UNIT/QUANTITY BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT: Description, Government Unit/Quantity, Government Price, Commercial Unit/Quantity,

Page: 36 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Commercial Price, Government Discount % I. PURPOSE The Multiple Award Schedule, Federal Supply Schedule Program is to provide Federal agencies with a customized plan for destroying government documents that is unique and cost effective to their needs. II. SCOPE OF WORK The objective of this Performance Work Statement (PWS) is to describe the Government's requirement in soliciting contractor support for Destruction Services (DS). These services may be used on a non-mandatory basis by various Government agencies and activities. Ordering agencies may require these services to satisfy worldwide agency mission production requirements. III. REQUIREMENTS a) The contractor is responsible for providing all resources including personnel, equipment, facilities, containers and transportation in performing all work requirements identified. Destruction service contractors shall have all access individuals (individuals who are employed by the contractor who have been vetted and granted access to classified customer material), non-access employees (employees who have not been vetted for access to classified customer material) and access non-employees (visitors, sub-contractors) sign a confidentially agreement in place prior to gaining access to classified customer media. In addition all access individuals shall be subject to a screening process which includes a criminal background check, drug screening, previous employment verification and proof of U.S. citizenship in accordance with FAR clause 52.222-54. Contractors shall certify compliance with HIPAA, HI-TECH Act of 2009 and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act. Services specified in an order placed against this contract may be performed at the contractor's facilities (off-site) or the ordering agency's facilities (on-site).DS contractor will provide a convenient, safe and secure destruction of a variety of media. Note: Documents produced and submitted to the government must be printed/copied two-sided on 30% postconsumer fiber content paper in accordance with FAR clause 52.204-4.

1. Operational Security Requirements b) DS contractors shall have written policies and procedures in place to ensure secure handling and destruction of customer material that include provisions for collection, staging, transfer of custody, transport, access control, processing and disposal of destroyed material. c) All classified customer material shall be collected and transferred in lockable containers/bins/receptacles that prevent the unauthorized retrieval of the customer material. d) DS contractors shall have a walled/fenced restricted, secure space dedicated to media destruction. Appropriate physical security measures: (e.g., audio/visual alarm systems, lighting, door locks, closed-circuit television (CCTV), motion sensors and visitor logs) shall be in place to prevent unauthorized access to restricted, secure space at all transfer processing locations. e) Customer material shall be destroyed within the time frame established by the ordering agency's policy and procedure. f) Contractor shall provide a certificate of destruction to the government agency at invoicing and/or according to the ordering agency's requirement, for both on-site and off-site material destruction. The certificate shall indicate the date of destruction, identify the material destroyed, method of destruction, and be signed by the individuals designated to destroy and witness the destruction. DS contractor officials shall be required to know, through their personal knowledge, that such material was destroyed. Contractor shall have the capability to produce an audit trail to be reviewed in accordance with the ordering agency's requirement.

Page: 37 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

IV. DESTRUCTION OF MATERIAL Destroyed material must be disposed in a manner that is in accordance with all local, state and federal environmental regulations. Whenever possible, unclassified shredded paper products and metal materials shall be recycled. Classified material collected in the United States shall be destroyed in the United States. V. WITNESS OF DESTRUCTION 1. Classified Material: Destruction of classified material (TOP SECRET, SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL) shall be witnessed by authorized personnel who have a full understanding of their responsibilities, in accordance with the ordering agency's requirement. 2. Ordering agencies that choose to witness the destruction of its materials may notify the contractor of its intent to accompany the materials to the destruction facility. VI. METHODS OF DESTRUCTION SERVICES The key for an organization in deciding how to manage material sanitization and destruction is to consider the information classification, then the material media type. Classification of information and disposal methods shall be made in accordance with the ordering agency's security policy and procedure. Note: The ordering agency will determine the classification and destruction method for Personal Identifiable Information (PII) material and identify such materials to the vendor. Sanitization: the process of clearing/purging all or part of a storage device so that the data contained therein is difficult or impossible to recover, as defined in the NIST Special Publication 800-88, Guidelines for Media Sanitization. Destruction: the physical destruction of media whereby they are rendered unusable and unrecoverable, as defined in the NIST Special Publication 800-88, Guidelines for Media Sanitization. NOTE: Destruction of classified material. Effective January 1, 2011, only equipment listed on an Evaluated Products List (EPL) issued by the National Security Agency (NSA) may be utilized to destroy classified information using any method covered by an EPL. However, equipment approved for use prior to January 1, 2011, and not found on an EPL, may be utilized for the destruction of classified information until December 31, 2016. Unless NSA determines otherwise, whenever an EPL is revised, equipment removed from an EPL may be utilized for the destruction of classified information up to six years from the date of its removal from an EPL. The Administrator of the GSA shall, to the maximum extent possible, coordinate supply schedules and otherwise seek to make equipment on an EPL available through the Federal Supply System. Methods of destruction for the following: 1. Paper or printed Material shredding must render material unreadable by using a cross cut, pierce and tear, strip cut or pulverize, disintegrator, rotary cut or hammermill method. End product shred size must meet the following criteria: a) Unclassified -Cross Cut/Pierce and Tear: 3/4 inch width (max) x 2 1/2 inch length (max) -Strip Cut: 5/8 inch width (max) x length: Indefinite -Pulverize, Disintegrator or Hammermill: Screen size (max) 2-inch diameter holes -Pulping b) Classified -Shredding/Disintegration/ Pulverizing: National Security Agency (NSA) spec of 3/32 inches square, as per NSA Evaluated Products List (EPL). -Incineration: Material must be reduced to white ash.

Page: 38 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

2. Microforms: (eg., Microfilm, microfiche, photographs and photographic negative) Shredding must render material unreadable by using a destruction method. End product shred size must meet the following criteria: a) Unclassified -Shredding: 1/8 inch width (max) x 1/8 inch length (max) b) Classified -Shredding/Slicing/Disintegration: NSA spec of 3/32 inches square, as per NSA EPL. -Incineration: Material must be reduced to white ash. -Chemical Degradation: Bleach for film masters, acetone or methylene chloride for diazo reproductions.

3. Electronic storage media (e.g., electro-magnetic tapes, hard drives, floppy disks, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM) and subscriber identity module (SIM) shall be rendered unreadable and unusable by sanitization and/or destruction. a) Unclassified Material Sanitization Methods: -Data overwrite: The entire media shall be overwritten a minimum of three times using a method based on the information contained on the media. The security goal of the overwriting process is to replace sensitive data with non-sensitive random data. -Degaussing: Use NSA EPL approved degausser -Slicing into unrecoverable, unreadable and unusable parts -Grinding b) Classified Material Sanitization Methods: -Data overwrite: The entire media shall be overwritten a minimum of three times using a method based on the information contained on the media. The security goal of the overwriting process is to replace sensitive data with non-sensitive random data. -Degaussing: Use NSA EPL approved degausser. and/or one of the destruction methods. Destruction Methods: -Pulverizing, Disintegration: NSA spec of 3/32 inches, as per NSA EPL. -Incineration: Material must be reduced to white ash. -Melting/Smelting: 1,600 degrees Celsius or higher. 4. Optical storage media [e.g., CD/DVD, solid state drives (flash drives), holographic storage and molecular memory] shall be rendered unreadable, unusable and unrecoverable by physically destroying the device. a) Unclassified Material Destruction Methods: -Disintegrate, Pulverize, Hammermill: 2 inch width x 2 inch length -Shredding: Strip cut 5/8inch width (max) x indefinite length -Grinding b) Classified Material -Disintegration: NSA spec of 3/32 inches square, as per NSA EPL. -Incineration: Material must be reduced to white ash. -Melting/Smelting: 1,600 degrees Celsius or higher. -Grinding Sales: $6,869,611 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No

Page: 39 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561990 Description All Other Support Services Business Size $7 million

51 508 --- Litigation Support Services
Litigation Support Services encompasses a wide range of services that aid attorneys and other professional and non-professional staff members in the tasks of obtaining, organizing, analyzing and presenting evidence or materials for legal matters not limited to: Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, trials, judgments, lawsuits, Congressional subpoenas, or settlements. Through the use of an Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM), information management systems, reproduction equipment, computer data processing, image management, geographical information systems and other technologies, litigation materials are effectively organized to enable rapid location. Services include but are not limited to document acquisition, document preparation and organization, photocopying, scanning and Optical Character Recognition (OCR), coding, database creation and development, electronic data acquisition and production, data extraction from forensic images, document analysis, software and systems support, and technical support and project management. NOTE: Services which involve actual litigation activities including entries of appearance(s) on behalf of government entities unsupervised by government counsel are not included and will not be procured under this SIN. NOTE: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SIN 51 508 LITIGATION SUPPORT SERVICES (LSS) Description Litigation Support Services encompasses a wide range of services that aid attorneys and other professional and non-professional staff members in the tasks of obtaining, organizing, analyzing and presenting evidence or materials for legal matters not limited to: Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, trials, judgments, lawsuits, Congressional subpoenas, or settlements. Through the use of an Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM), information management systems, reproduction equipment, computer data processing, image management, geographical information systems and other technologies, litigation materials are effectively organized to enable rapid location. Services include but are not limited to document acquisition, document preparation and organization, photocopying, scanning and Optical Character Recognition (OCR), coding, database creation and development, electronic data acquisition and production, data extraction from forensic images, document analysis, software and systems support, and technical support and project management. NOTE: Services which involve actual litigation activities including entries of appearance(s) on behalf of government entities unsupervised by government counsel are not included and will not be procured under this SIN. The contractor shall provide all personnel, equipment and supplies for the performance of litigation support services (LSS). The types of LSS include, but are not limited to the following: Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM) : A framework for performing electronic document discovery for legal matters will include a system of engagement, collection, processing, production, presentation and management of information, as required by the agency. a. Engagement- The ability to receive requests that need to be responded to by the agency or component, identify potential sources of relevant information and provide data entry support. The contractor must have the ability to log and track the requests according to the agency or

Page: 40 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

component that should respond and determine which requests to re-direct to other agencies or components. The ability to identify the appropriate scope of the project within the agency or component, search prior resp cvonses to determine whether similar requests have already been processed, and determine the offices or programs to involve in response to the request. b. Collection- The ability to provide general consulting services regarding mapping systems to determine best approaches for locating electronically stored information (ESI) and establish an overall plan for responding to requests for agency information requiring an electronic discovery process. ESI and its associated metadata should be collected in a manner that is legally defensible, efficient, auditable, and targeted. c. Processing- The ability to process information in an electronic discovery project to reasonably select information pertinent to the request for review by the agency. The information management system used for electronic discovery should adhere to strict process auditing, quality control, analysis and validation and chain of custody considerations. The contractor's information management and processing system must provide the ability to locate, capture, convert, extract text and relevant metadata fields, and convert standard electronic files (word processing files, e-mail message files and attachments, presentations, spreadsheets, photos) into other formats including searchable static images to facilitate document numbering, authentication, search, review and redaction. The contractor's information management system must have the ability to review both static images and native files, and to redact files as well as track the basis upon which any redaction is made (privilege, Privacy Act, state secret, etc.). Redactions must be "burned in" to production images such that the redacted information cannot be accessed by any means. The management system must also have the ability to retain and track original, un-redacted images in a manner that cannot be inadvertently produced but retains all information present and available prior to redaction. The information management and processing system must provide the following functionalities for processing ESI: 1. Search. The ability to accurately, timely and efficiently search agency repositories of potentially responsive information (hard copy and electronic documents). Sources of potentially responsive electronic documents would include e-mail systems, text message systems, social media systems, individual user laptops and desktops (hard drives), network shares, databases, intranets, messaging systems, PDAs, cell phones, removable media (CDs, thumb drives, etc)and other sources to include video, voicemail, audio and picture images (JPEG, TIIF, BMP, JPEG, HTML, etc.). 2. Capture. The ability to capture standard file types of electronic documents (word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, e-mail messages, photos, etc.) in the format in which they exist on the system and covert them in a manner that captures associated metadata. Such capture shall include the ability to export captured electronic documents to a searchable, persistent format (e.g., PDF with extracted and hidden text, Group IV TIFF with extracted and hidden text, etc.) Non-standard file types should be captured in a "readily usable" or "reasonably accessible" format. 3. Ingestion/Converting. The ability to load and catalog standard electronic file types (word processing files, e-mail messages with attachments, presentations, spreadsheets, databases, photos, executable programs, etc.) and to extract text and relevant metadata 4. Processing for Native Review. The ability to process standard electronic file types (word processing files, e-mails with attachments, presentations, spreadsheets, databases, photos, etc.) for review in their native format using local, server-based, or browser-based review tools. 5. Conversion to static images. The ability to convert standard file types that can be rendered as images (word processing, e-mail messages with attachments, presentations, spreadsheets, databases, photos, etc.) into searchable static images (TIFF, PDF) for review or production. 6. Filtering/Culling. The ability to apply search criteria (date range, file type, key words, user domain, and other filtering and culling criteria) to searches conducted for electronic information. 7. Tracking. The ability to track sources searched, search technologies, and criteria used to

Page: 41 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

locate responsive information. 8. Reporting. The ability to generate reports describing what sources were searched, how responsive information was located, who was involved in the search, and what responsive information was found. 9. De-duplication. The ability to use hash values, pixel counts or other unique identifiers to remove duplicate electronic files from document collection prior to converting electronic files to a static image. 10. Threading. The ability to thread e-mail messages together prior to converting electronic files to static images so the entire e-mail chain can be grouped together for review, searching and production. 11. Parent/Child Relationships. The ability to retain parent-child relationships between e-mails and their attachments prior to converting e-mail message to static images for review and production. 12. Computer searches for privileged materials. The ability to use computer searches to locate potentially privileged and deliberative communications, attorney work product materials, or information protected from disclosure under the Privacy Act and similar laws prior to converting the electronic file to a static image for review and production. 13. Extraction of Metadata. The ability to extract relevant metadata fields according to file type prior to converting the electronic file to a static image for review and production. The ability to link metadata or the native file to a static image, if requested. 14. Audit Log. The ability to retain audit logs after converting electronic files to static images so that the original electronic file and other information needed to authenticate the source of each processed native file or static image is available and associated with the static image. 15. Numbering and Serialization. The ability to assign document control numbers (uniquely identifying each document in native form) and Bates numbers (uniquely identifying single page static images ) that serialize a collection of documents and derived images and to endorse or "burn" these numbers into static images to facilitate tracking. 16. Security. The ability to confirm compliance and compatibility with all standing government regulations for data encryption, transfer, privacy, security, patching, destruction, spillage and access. d. Production- The contractor must have the ability to present information in various forms, provide reports upon agency request and have the ability to post information on agency websites. 1. Posting-Information shall be posted in a "508 compliant" manner onto agency websites. All redacted images posted on agency websites shall be posted with redactions "burned in" so that information cannot be accessed by any means. 2. Reporting-Reporting requirements include, but are not limited to reports on holdings, accessions, disposals, records eligible for disposal, transfers in, transfers out, reference, re-files, and photocopying. The contractor must have the ability to report on the timeliness and cost of responding to each request as well as the overall timeliness of agency responses to requests. For example, the ability to produce the agency's Annual FOIA Report expressed in terms of each principal component and the agency overall in compliance with The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. ร#ยง 552; The Open Government Act of 2007, Pub. L. No. 110-175, 121 Stat. 2524, and the Department of Justice content and format reporting requirements for agency Annual FOIA Reports. See 5 U.S.C. ร#ยง 552(e). e. Presentation-The ability to present information, reports, native files, load files (Summation, Concordance or other) and static images with "burned in" redactions, phrase labels, and serialized endorsements to requestors in hard copy and as electronic documents on portable media (CD, DVD, etc.), hard drives, email and/or web-hosted solution. Encryption of portable media may be required as well as secure access to a web repository. The ability to manage documents, images audio/visual content for presentation in courtroom settings or similar

Page: 42 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

venues (mediation/arbitration). Basic functionality of any presentation system should include the ability to: 1. Create witness and trial workbooks, create and print exhibit/trial exhibit lists and generate reports and video clips for court and counsel 2. Create slides, present exhibits in side-by-side comparison, display and highlight sections of documents and import documents and transcripts from existing applications into the court room presentation system 3. Create video/audio clips, synchronize video depositions to transcript text, import photographs, video and audio and display/present them. 4. Mark-up and annotate/edit documents, slides, photographs, video and audio. f. Management-The ability to securely store and provide access to all generated and transferred electronic documents. 1. Storage. The ability to securely capture, transfer, and store government data in a manner that confirms chain-of-custody, integrity, and authenticity. Government data requires protocols that mandate oversight, qualified personnel, and exclusively domestic custody and storage. 2. Hosting. The ability to provide secure, managed access to government data in an auditable, reliable, on-demand capacity. Hosted data may be managed internally on government equipment or externally on qualified vendor resources. 3. Security. The ability to confirm compliance and compatibility with all standing government regulations for data encryption, transfer, privacy, security, patching and access. 4. Change of Control. The ability to rapidly reassign control of government data in a manner that confirms transfer in non-proprietary, usable formats as defined by government regulations and prevailing industry standards. The ability to confirm the complete extraction and removal of all government data from vendor resources. Comprehensive management capability to solve the complex challenges posed by the movement, manipulations, archiving, and security can be accomplished through SIN 51 504, Records Management Services. Dispossession of documents and other media can be accomplished through SIN 51 507, Destruction Services. Comprehensive document conversion of original document text and graphic images to a new media and formatting for use in a document imaging and storage system can be accomplish through SIN 51 506, Document Conversion Services. Document Preparation: Documents have a broad meaning as defined in Rule 34 ( Producing Documents, Electronically Stored Information, and Tangible Things, or Entering onto Land, for Inspection and Other Purposes) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, www.uscourts.gov. Document Preparation includes, but is not limited to, numbering, marking, hole-punching, stapling and staple removal, binding, retrieving, assembly, and re-filing the documents in accordance with the Government's original submission to the contractor or pursuant to the Government's instructions to the contractor. It may also include the provision of binders, tabs, dividers, and other supplies as necessary. It may include pickup and delivery. The contractor shall create and maintain detailed log sheets and associated document controls. Documents produced and submitted to the government must be printed/copied two-sided on 30% postconsumer fiber content paper in accordance with FAR clause 52.204-4, unless court rules for the jurisdiction in which the litigation will occur prohibit the use of recycled content paper. The contractor must design, maintain, and implement a system for identifying and marking

Page: 43 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

documents that will be used for information or evidence in legal matters. A Bates numbering or bar code system may be required to generate and attach unique identifying numbers to all documents. In addition, Phrase Labeling may be required which will indicate at a minimum a document's source; file owner, production request information, and other needed information. Note: Documents produced by the Contractor and submitted to the government must be printed/copied two-sided on 30% postconsumer fiber content paper in accordance with FAR clause is 52.204-4 unless court rules for the jurisdiction in which the litigation will occur prohibit the use of recycled content paper. Phrase labels must be accurate, contain the information specified, and be legible on all copies. Database Development: The contractor shall design, implement, maintain, and update databases used for information in legal matters. The databases shall include (1) full-text databases; (2) databases composed of coded and formatted data; and (3) databases consisting of graphic images of a variety of document types. The contractor shall be responsible for converting deposition and trial transcripts, interrogatories, interrogatory responses, briefs and other documents for full-text searching and storage on CD-ROM, compatible with the customer agency's software. Software provided by the contractor must be compatible with that of the ordering agency. Hands on training, if required, and instructional manuals shall be furnished on the software that is used at no additional cost to the ordering agency. Document Reproduction: The contractor shall provide high-volume reproduction of documents at the contractor (or subcontractor's) site or at a site otherwise specified by the ordering agency. The contractor shall provide all facilities, equipment, labor, and supplies for performing this task. Work ordered under this requirement will not be performed at Government-funded Document Centers. Work may be ordered on a regular or accelerated (to be defined and determined by the ordering agency) turnaround basis. The contractor shall provide personnel, equipment, and materials for the purpose of organizing and preparing documents for reproduction (including photocopying) or for other image capture. The contractor shall maintain a high level of quality control to assure that each page is reproduced so that every line and character on the original page appears on the reproduced page and is clearly legible. If required by an ordering agency, the contractor shall produce reproductions of documents on other media, i.e., diskette, tape, poster board, CD, and microfilm compatible with the ordering agency's software. To the extent specified, the contractor's capabilities shall comprise copying digital data as well as video and audiotapes. In addition to standard size and type documents, the contractor may be required to reproduce a wide-range of varying sized documents such as charts, engineering drawings, blueprints, and photographs. The contractor shall provide for color copying of documents that are in color. In cases where special copying techniques (i.e., source documents, charts, or drawings) are required, the contractor shall preserve grey tones. The contractor shall provide document image scanning and related services. Image scanning and related services shall be provided for government and non-government documents, on or off site, i.e., the Government's storage facilities, or the contractor's or subcontractor's facilities. The contractor shall image and/or scan materials according to priorities set by the ordering agency. All documents shall be produced to the Government on standard media (CD, DVD, hard drive, thumb drive, etc.) in a form that can be viewed and/or printed from any workstation used by the ordering agency. The electronic files shall be marked and indexed for search purposes and made available on CD. Security All personnel with access to confidential, proprietary, protected or sensitive materials will be required to sign non-disclosure agreements. Some agencies may require various contractor personnel to obtain a security clearance before receiving access to facilities and information. Security clearances, when required on individual orders, shall be obtained at the contractor's

Page: 44 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

expense. Due to the nature and sensitivity of the documents that will be handled by the contractor, care must be given to safeguarding files whether on or off site. Confidentiality of file content must be kept at all times. All contractors providing services and/or products pursuant to this SIN must comply with the ordering agency's Information Technology (IT) security policies and procedures, to include, among other things, compliance with the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards, cyber-security standards, and privacy requirements. ALL AGENCY ELECTRONIC INFORMATION TO BE STORED BY CONTRACTORS MUST BE STORED IN THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNET TRANSFERS MUST COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT TRUSTED INTERNET CONNECTION (TIC) REQUIREMENTS AND THE NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM (NCPS) OPERATIONALLY KNOWN AS EINSTEIN. Sales: $7,518,896 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 518210 541110 541199 541611 561110 561410 Description Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services Offices of Lawyers All Other Legal Services Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services Office Administrative Services Document Preparation Services Business Size $25 million $10 million $10 million $14 million $7 million $7 million

51 509 --- Network Connectivity Support Services
Network Connectivity Support Services must be able to support industry's software applications, network operating systems (e.g., Windows 95, 98, NT, Netware) and other related networks that are compatible to the agency's infrastructure. The qualified personnel, materials, spare parts, tool, hardware/software and network components necessary to perform the service will be provided by the contractor. The capability to support, stand-alone and integrated digital equipment (e.g., digital/multifunctional digital copiers, Photo ID Systems, Mail Management Systems, Network Optical and Imaging Systems and Laboratory Systems) must be provided by the contractor. This will give the users the ability to search, view, access and print documents right from their desktop. The contractor must have the ability to manage and control the agency's network environment. This SIN includes directly related support (e.g., security, telephone/hotline, database, software, maintenance). NOTE: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SIN 51 509 Network Connectivity Support Services (NCSS) Network Connectivity Support Services includes services that will allow users to communicate with customers internally and externally across shared network so they can search, view, access and print documents right from their desktop. Scope of Work: The contractor must be able to support industry's software applications, network operating

Page: 45 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

systems (e.g., Windows 95, 98, NT, Netware) and other related networks that are compatible to the agency's infrastructure. The qualified personnel, materials, spare parts, tool, hardware/software and network components necessary to perform the service will be provided by the contractor. The capability to support, stand-alone and integrated digital equipment (e.g., digital/multifunctional digital copiers, Photo ID Systems, Mail Management Systems, Network Optical & Imaging Systems and Laboratory Systems) must be provided by the contractor.. The contractor must have the ability to manage and control the agency's network environment. This SIN includes directly related support (e.g., security, telephone/hotline, database, software, maintenance). At a minimum the contractor must provide the customer with share file capabilities across network on a nationwide/worldwide basis. The network services may include but are not limited to: - Network Management and Operations - Maintenance - Installation - Administration - Quality Assurance - Security - Configuration Management - Training Depending on the nature of the customer's requirement, a preliminary Needs Assessment and Analysis Services (NAAS) may be required in order to assess the extent of the customer's requirement to fulfill the customer's need for NCSS. Equipment Network Connectivity Support will cover ALL EQUIPMENT UNDER THIS SCHEDULE that requires on-line support, which includes but are not limited to: Stand-Alone/Multifunction Copier (e.g., engineer, digital/multifunctional digital copiers & related features/capabilities) Photo ID Systems Mail Management Systems Network Optimal Imaging Systems Office Business Equipment Laboratory Systems General Requirements: Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the following general requirements are applicable to Network Connectivity Support Services to be performed under this schedule. Contractor Responsibility - The Contractor shall be responsible for furnishing all items used in performing the work unless otherwise specified or approved by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor will act independently and not as an agent of the Government. The contractor's results must be consistent with the scope of the agency requirements. Although, the contractor will make recommendations, the agency will be the final approving official. Network Management Operations The contractor shall have the capability to communicate with customer's IT/LAN department

Page: 46 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

and a host of suppliers to manage, maintain and connect to customer shared resources, provides staff and manage central customer service/trouble desk and perform technical assessments on a day-to-day operation. At a minimum, the contractor shall support the following but are not limited to: - Provides back bone connectivity support (e.g., fiber optic cable plant, dual broadband coaxial cable network) for customers with no existing infrastructure; - Connects hosts, terminals, printers and other related peripheral devices and major LAN components (e.g., concentrator, routers, switches, bridges, intelligent hubs, fiber optic transceivers, CATV broadband, dual cable, head end associated equipment, network interface units, personal computer and mainframes, and other devices) to aid in exchange information; - Supports current and future Operating Systems that are compatible with the multifunctional device (e.g., Windows 3.x, Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows NT, Macintosh, AppleTalk, IBM, UNIX, etc.); and the network interface (parrellel, serial, network etc) that is used to communicate and transfer information simultaneously. - Supports a number of shared resources among offices within the organization and provides access to external/public networks; and protocols (e.g., IP, IPX, Vines) used by the customer. Other shared services may include e-mail gateway, internet and backbone gateway. The contractor must maintain the integrity of the agency's investment. Additional Support may include but are not limited to: - Maintenance/Warranty - Supports the resources and work performed for a specified term. - Telephone/hotline - Provides ongoing communications for a specified term. - Database - Obtains on-line data to better define the problem for specified term. Maintenance/Warranty The contractor shall provide troubleshooting and preventative and corrective maintenance services for the customer's hardware, software and cable or in accordance with the customer's terms and conditions. The contractor shall provide commercial warranty or in accordance with the customer's requirements whichever is greater. The Contractor warrants all services in accordance with the commercial practice. The price of the warranty shall be included in the purchase price of the item. Installation Depending on the customer's requirements, the contractor shall have resources to support the installation of cable, equipment, and related software products. In addition, the contractor must develop and maintain documentation and certification of each installation. Administration The contractor shall provide a wide range of administrative functions to meet the customer's requirements. Security The contractor shall develop and implement techniques and procedures to prevent unauthorized access and use of the customer's resources and in accordance with the customer's

Page: 47 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

requirements. Some agencies may require various contractor personnel to obtain a security clearance before receiving access to facilities and information at the contractor's expense will be obtained at the contractor's expense. Performance Standards The contractor shall comply with all performance standards in accordance with the commercial practice and agency's requirements. For example: acceptance, availability, validity, reliability, downtime, testing. Failure to meet workmanship standards will result in re-work at the contractor's expense or contract termination, as appropriate. The contractor shall notify the ordering activity's Contracting Officer feedback that will prevent successful performance of the work required. The Contracting Officer shall receive such notification within ten (10) working days (or as stipulated on the individual agency task order). Quality Control/Tracking System Unless otherwise specified by the ordering activity, the contractor shall perform 100% quality control tracking that monitors and ensures the quality of Network Connectivity Support Services. The jobs must describe and monitor job status, delivery of a finished product. The ordering activity reserves the right to perform quality control on any products produced under this schedule. Failures to meet quality control standards will result in re-work at the contractor's expense or contract termination, as appropriate. Configuration Support The contractor shall develop and implement a comprehensive configuration plan and work closely with the customer's IT department to ensure the operation is maintained in an efficient and effectively manner. The contractor must have the knowledge and be familiar with all network resources, customer locations, physical and logical topologies which may include: - Make, model and serial number of all equipment and other network devices. - Product name and version of all software - Physical topology network map - Configure the customer's network hardware/software - Test, benchmark and calibrate new software, equipment, and other network devices used to test and analyze all products used in connection with the support. Training At the contractor's expense, the contractor shall develop standard operating procedures that describes the specific approach, procedures, and schedules how the training plan will be implemented to meet the agency's requirements. Training provided under this SIN is conducted at initial installation, which is normally provided, by the contractor to commercial and/or government customers at no additional cost to the customer. The Contractor shall provide training courses normally available to commercial customer. The training should provide the customer with comprehensive knowledge (e.g., operational capabilities, user training, maintenance training, repair techniques) of equipment or service. Training must be standard or customized commercial courses. Contractors may provide customized training and/or off the shelf training packages as well as-off-the shelf training packages customized to the agency's specific needs related to the operational capabilities, user training and maintenance training of the equipment. Customization off-the-shelf training may include but is not limited to: workbooks; training manuals; slides; videotapes; overhead transparencies, advanced presentation media; and state-of-the art computer based training. All training must

Page: 48 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

give the user the ability to operate with ease. Before implementing a training plan, the contractor shall perform an in depth assessment of the agency's capabilities: - Customer's Background (e.g., knowledge, experience and capabilities) - Type of equipment, number of users, usage etc. - Course content, agenda, objectives and length of course - Training (professional/non-professional) - Training aids - Offsite/off site - Network with internal/external customers (hands on equipment) - Training manuals and reference materials The Contractor shall provide training at the Contractor's facility and/or at the Government's location, as agreed to by the Contractor and the Government. When the Government requires the contractor to acquire training facilities, the Government will provide payment on a reimbursable basis for the training facilities or in accordance with the customer's requirements. Additional training for a fee, may be offered under Special Item Number (SIN) 51 503 Educational and Training Services (ETS) Contractor Furnished Property The contractor shall furnish one or more of the necessary personnel, tools, spare parts, material and supplies, hardware/software, and support services (except as otherwise specified in the task order), to perform, manage and maintain the customer network infrastructure. All equipment, supplies, spare parts, components, software used in connection with network support must be new and meet the standard commercial provisions. Government Furnished Property The government shall furnish personnel, material, equipment, services and facilities (except as otherwise specified in the task order) in order to accomplish the work. Location and Hours of Work The contractor shall adhere to the customer's work hours in accordance with the customer's terms and conditions specified in the task order. Location: The services may be performed on-site or off-site/ at the contractor's place of business. On-Site If applicable, the Government will provide the space designated by the using agency. The facility shall be kept in an orderly fashion with supplies stored in a safe manner. The Contractor shall be responsible for securing supplies and equipment after regular working hours. Any losses or damage due to unauthorized use of equipment or supplies shall be borne by the contractor. Off-site : The Contractor shall provide the address for the off-site location. Deliverables shall be F.O.B. Destination. Hours of Work: Generally, the facility will be operational between the hours of 8AM and 5PM, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. As an alternative, the ordering agency's individual task order may require the contractor to operate a shift outside of these hours or on weekends in order to meet short term requirements. These alternative shifts must be coordinated with the ordering agency in advance to provide building security.

Page: 49 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Sales: $59,347 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R799 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561499 Description All Other Business Support Services Business Size $7 million

Group Name: Mail Management, Systems, Processing Equipment and Related Solutions 50 163 --- Mail Processing Machines, Systems and Related Software
This SIN includes Mailing Machines that automatically or manually feed seal (including seal-only machines), postmark, meter stamps, count and stack letters and machines that print postage on wet, dry or pressure-sensitive tape for packages and bulky envelopes. Mail/Parcel Scales and Weighing Machines that are either electronic or mechanical machines used for weighing and managing weighing/shipping information for packages and envelopes. Inserting Machines that insert checks, bulletins, reports, cards, letters, etc., into envelopes and other related products. Envelope Opener/Extracting Machines that completely and easily open envelopes and allow for easy removal of the envelope's contents. Addressing Machines that print addresses, attention lines, return addresses, etc., on (outgoing) mail. Imprinter machines imprint cards (e.g., credit card slips), forms, tickets, labels, and similar material requiring multiple imprints. Addresser/imprinter machines use metal and/or plastic plates. The mailmobile system is an automated internal mail delivery system as well as a service. This system is basically equipped to deliver mail, supplies, packages, cash as well as classified and sensitive documents on an invisible guidepath that is stimulated by ultraviolet and tracked by photoelectric sensors. X-Ray Inspection Systems - This system is designed to identify terrorist and criminal attacks of incoming mail, parcel packages, bags, boxes, etc. These systems are mainly used in government buildings, banks, industry, television broadcasting, courtrooms, public training and workshops. This SIN includes a host of ancillary services, related software, attachments, accessories, supplies and solutions. All products include directly related, software accessories, attachments and supplies. Sales: $8,864,354 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

50 287 --- Money Handling & Processing Machines
This SIN includes a wide range money handling and processing equipment such as cash registers, check and money handling equipment, check endorsing, signing and writing

Page: 50 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

equipment, check perforating machines, coin sorting, and paper counting, and more. Includes directly related accessories, attachments and supplies. Sales: $298,403 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

51 1000 --- Ancillary Supplies and/or Services
Ancillary supplies and/or services are support supplies and/or services which are not within the scope of any other SIN on this schedule. These supplies and/or services are necessary to compliment a contractor's offerings to provide a solution to a customer requirement. This SIN may be used for orders and blanket purchase agreements that involve work or a project that is solely associated with the supplies and/or services purchased under this schedule. This SIN EXCLUDES purchases that are exclusively for supplies and/or services already available under another schedule. Special Instructions: The work performed under this SIN shall be associated with existing SIN(s) that are part of this schedule. Ancillary supplies and/or services shall not be the primary purpose of the work ordered, but be an integral part of the total solution offered. Ancillary supplies and/or services may only be ordered in conjunction with or in support of supplies or services purchased under another SIN(s) of the same schedule. Offerors may be required to provide additional information to support a determination that their proposed ancillary supplies and/or services are commercially offered in support of one or more SIN(s) under this schedule. Sales: $36,970 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 561499 Description All Other Business Support Services Business Size $7 million

733 1 --- Mail Room Management Services
As specified in a task order, contractor shall provide daily mailroom administrative services consisting of, but not limited to: accepting incoming mail from USPS and courier services such as UPS and FEDEX; accepts and signs for certified mail, registered mail and overnight mail. Makes distribution of all mail using an Office Roster. Processes outgoing mail, metering flats, letters, packages, etc. NOTE: IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON AN HOURLY RATE BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT:

Page: 51 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Labor/Task Category, Government Hourly Rate, Government Daily Rate, Commercial Hourly Rate, Commercial Daily Rate, Government Discount % IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON A UNIT/QUANTITY BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT: Description, Government Unit/Quantity, Government Price, Commercial Unit/Quantity, Commercial Price, Government Discount % OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 1 MAIL ROOM ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT Services include, but are not limited to, accepting incoming mail from the United States Postal System (USPS) and courier services such as UPS and FedEx; accepts and signs for certified mail, registered mail and overnight mail; distribution of mail using an Office Roster; processes outgoing mail, metering flats, letters, and packages. Sales: $7,919,486 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R604 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561110 561210 561439 Description Office Administrative Services Facilities Support Services Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops) Business Size $7 million $35.5 million $7 million

733 2 --- Presort Mail
Provides all management, supervision, labor, materials, supplies and equipment and shall plan, schedule, coordinate, and assure effective performance of all services described herein. Contractors will be required to provide a minimum of presort mail and barcode services applicable to the postage discount level offered, for domestic First Class Federal Government Mail, for various Federal Agencies in accordance with standard commercial practices and all USPS regulations. Contractors are required to have and continually maintain an USPS Coding Accuracy Support System (CASS) certification.

Page: 52 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

NOTE: POSTAGE RATE SERVICES PREVAILING USPS R100 FIRST CLASS POSTAGE RATE No automation-Presorted Metered____________________________________ Automation Basic Metered___________________________________________ Automation 3 Digit Metered_________________________________________ Geographic Area of Coverage(i.e. city, county, metro area, etc.)___ OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 2 MAIL PRESORT Services include, but are not limited to, mail-presort and barcode services and clean-up below standard address format. No mail shall be rejected by the Contractor due to below standard address format. Each time a mail pickup is made, the Contractor's representative making the pickup must sign a prepared receipt that indicates the pickup date, and the exact number of pieces of mail consigned. The Contractor must collect and maintain this information and make it available to the agency for examination upon request by the Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's Representative. All automation rate mailings must be address coded by Coding Accuracy Support System (CASS) certified software using the current ZIP+4 database. Sales: $1,399,417 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561210 561439 561499 Description Facilities Support Services Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops) All Other Business Support Services Business Size $35.5 million $7 million $7 million

733 3 --- Miscellaneous Mail Services
Provides management, supervision, labor and equipment and plans, schedules, coordinates and

Page: 53 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

assures effective performance of all services described. Consists of preparing/packaging mail, addressing, labeling, folding, inserting, bursting, collating, mail match, wrapping, software services, metering and stamping mail. NOTE: IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON AN HOURLY RATE BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT: Labor/Task Category, Government Hourly Rate, Government Daily Rate, Commercial Hourly Rate, Commercial Daily Rate, Government Discount % IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON A UNIT/QUANTITY BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT: Description, Government Unit/Quantity, Government Price, Commercial Unit/Quantity, Commercial Price, Government Discount % IF THE OFFEROR'S COMMERCIAL PRACTICE IS TO PRICE THESE SERVICES ON A FIXED PRICE BASIS, USE THE FOLLOWING FORMAT: Description, Government Price, Commercial Price, Government Discount % OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 3 MISCELLANEOUS MAIL SERVICES Services include, but are not limited to, preparing/packaging mail, addressing, labeling, folding, inserting, bursting, collating, mail match, wrapping, software services, metering and stamping in accordance with standard commercial practices and all United States Postal Service (USPS) regulations. Sales: $118,838,424 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561210 561439 561499 Description Facilities Support Services Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops) All Other Business Support Services Business Size $35.5 million $7 million $7 million

Page: 54 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

733 4 --- List Management Services
Consists of data entry, address label printing, lists management, list cleanup and list coding. NOTE: OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 4 LIST MANAGEMENT SERVICES Services include, but are not limited to, data entry, address label printing, lists management, list cleanup and list coding. Sales: $334,975 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R604 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 561499 Description All Other Business Support Services Business Size $7 million

733 5 --- Mailroom Ergonomic Analysis Services
Provides mailroom ergonomic analysis services that may include, but are not limited to: workflow analyses, studying and improving mailroom processes, productivity studies, task analysis, time and motion studies, determining optimal mailroom layout, site-specific ergonomic training, space planning, and process equipment assessments. NOTE: OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply

Page: 55 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 5 MAIL ROOM ERGONOMIC ANALYSIS SERVICES Services include, but are not limited to, workflow analyses, studying and improving mailroom processes, productivity studies, task analysis, time and motion studies, determining optimal mailroom layout, site-specific ergonomic training, space planning, and process equipment assessments. Sales: $0 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : R604 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 541611 Description Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services Business Size $14 million

733 6 --- Mail Screening and Inspection Services
This Service involves on-site and off-site examination of incoming mail, packages, etc. to detect any form of contamination (e.g., hazardous materials, chemicals, or explosives). This service includes personnel, materials, equipment, and facility to properly screen and inspect all incoming mail. NOTE: OBJECTIVE The purpose of this procurement and resulting contracts is to provide a contracting vehicle for Federal agencies to obtain qualified firms to accomplish their mail requirements. SCOPE OF WORK Contractors shall comply with all United States Postal Service (USPS) mailing standards, described in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) and other Postal Service directives that apply to the contractors operations. Contractors shall provide all qualified personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and services relative to Mail Management Services as specified in task orders placed by authorized users in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner. Services specified in a task order may be performed at the contractor's facility, the ordering agency's facility, or other sites as appropriate. Contractors may provide a full range of services or choose only those services in which they specialize in one or more of the following Special Item Numbers. SIN 733 6 MAIL SCREENING AND INSPECTION SERVICES This service involves on site and/or off site examination of all incoming mail, to detect any

Page: 56 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

form of contamination (e.g., hazardous chemicals, anthrax or explosive). It includes Key Personnel, Specialized Equipment, and Supervision to properly screen and inspect incoming mail. Sales: $26,763 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $1,000,000

NAICS
Number 541330 Description Engineering Services Business Size $14 million

Group Name: Office/Business Products & Solutions 47 145 --- Typewriters
This SIN includes manual, non-electric/electric types - dictionary type, multilingual, electronic office, word processing, and professional/non-professional w/without disk drive, spell check. This SIN includes directly related attachments, accessories and supplies. Sales: $198,650 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 7430 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

47 147 --- Security Applications for Business Machines
(SMALL BUSINESS SET ASIDE) This SIN includes security applications for office equipment (e.g., computers/monitors, keyboards, printers, fax machines, TV and VCR, calculators, copiers, medical equipment, cash registers, printers, typewriters laboratory Systems, word processors, audio/visual. This equipment is to be secured within any environment to deter unlawful removal of equipment. A combination of security solutions include (e.g., anti-theft software tracking system, - manage PC from a network location, switch for computer case, motion sensor, security hardware (e.g., metal plates and cable, strong adhesive, and other related options). This SIN includes all directly related conventional and biometric products, software, attachment, accessories and supplies. NOTE: *SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE SIN* Sales: $49,013 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: Yes FSC/PSC Code : 3610

Page: 57 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

47 355 --- Dictating and Transcribing Machines and Systems
This professional PC Dictation System that offers the user state-of-the art technology and digitize recording with a full voice recording system interface via network connected card reader with superior digital sound. No need for special telephone connections or wireless networks, superior digital sound quality, ID programmable to eliminate user input. The user has the option to instantly access deletions and re-record hands free. Restore missing information hands free without missing a word. The products may include: hand-held voice/data digital recorder with multifunction LCD display, voice documents, personal voice messaging, card reader, pc-based dictation application and digital kits. Additional features for enhancement purposes are software package, high-quality microphone designed for speeches, dedicated mouse, internal speaker for voice playback, sound card etc. Units are available in standard, mini, and micro cassette configurations. Sales: $119,785 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

50 177 --- Date and Time Stamps
This SIN includes electric/non-electric date and stamps which automatically print date and time (e.g., month, date, and time, number and date, TEXT stamp for signature or message and check signer. Includes directly related accessories, attachments and supplies. Sales: $189,750 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333316 339940 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Office Supplies (except Paper) Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees 500 employees

50 180 --- Time and Attendance Program Systems
This SIN includes analog and digital Time and Attendance Program Systems. It includes the traditional time clock that gives the employee the option to walk to clock in. The digital version delivers accurate attendance and a host of capabilities which allows the manager to track time and attendance through network compatible software anytime right from their PC,

Page: 58 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

enter the office by using a pin number and the employee is automatic clocked in. Perfect for organization with contractors to track paid and non-paid breaks. Payroll accounting system may be available. This SIN includes directly related accessories, attachments and supplies. NOTE: *SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE SIN* Sales: $0 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: Yes FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

50 281 --- Calculators
This SIN includes a wide range of calculators such as basic, business, electronic, fraction, metric conversion, programmable/non-programmable, scientific, statistical, printing, graphic, web-site/financial. Includes directly related accessories, attachments, supplies and software. Sales: $856 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 7420 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

50 7002 --- Stencil Cutting Machines
This SIN includes a wide range of stencil cutting machines for all types of business applications such as industrial, military, municipal and transportation and related accessories, attachments and supplies. Sales: $142,055 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333318 Description Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

51 001 --- Office Products for the Impaired
This SIN covers turnkey products for vision, hearing, mobility and cognitive language impairments primarily used for disabilities. The purpose is to caption a subtitle from an analog

Page: 59 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

and digital files format to quickly format text into individual captions, displayed on the computer screen, and video screen from one language into several languages. The files may include the following formats (e.g., microsoft word, wordperfect (any language), text with/without time code in and out, cheetah, inc. files, captions inc. files). The products may include: closed captioning systems (works with closed captioning encoders to create closed captions - can be placed anywhere on the screen), open captioning systems for compressed video, real-time captioning, encoders (work closely with closed captioning software to encode captions), and decoders. Include attachments, accessories, supplies and software. Sales: $51,864 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 512191 Description Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services Business Size $29.5 million

51 002 --- Business Card Scanner and Solutions
This SIN includes handheld and desktop business card scanners that automatically read and organize business cards. Text information is stored into its proper fields - name, title, address, city, state, zip code, country, phone, fax, e-mail and web address. The user can easily search data on any of the fields and don't have to worry about missing words or numbers again. Perfect for creating business mailing list (e.g., workshops and conferences, training). Includes all directly related accessories, attachments, supplies and software. Sales: $0 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 541511 Description Custom Computer Programming Services Business Size $25.5 million

165 205 --- Multimedia Office Cabinets, Displays, and Filing Systems including Pocket Card Frames and Portfolios
This SIN includes a wide range of multimedia office cabinets (e.g., aperture card, microfilm, microfiche, record keeping type), display and filing systems (e.g., file index desktop, powered/non rotary files, multimedia filing and storage products, racks, pocket card frames and portfolios, easel stands, plate holders) (including pocket card frames and portfolios). This SIN includes directly supplies, accessories and attachments. Sales: $9,804,912 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 7125

Page: 60 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 337215 Description Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees

Group Name: Photographic Products, Services & Solutions 50 156 --- Personal & Document Identification Systems
This SIN includes Personal and Document Identification Systems that includes, but not limited to: eye, face, palm, fingerprint and voice recognition systems, public (private) key infrastructure are excluded (PKI). The Identification Systems may include but not limited to: Photo Identification Cameras and Systems and Embossed Card Systems. Systems may be PC assessable and may feature Smart Card Technology, such as, encoded magnetic strips, bar codes, signatures, etc. This SIN also includes all related software, attachments, accessories and supplies. Sales: $1,818,753 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 323111 Description Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books) Business Size 500 employees

51 402 --- Multi-Media Readers, Reader-Printers and Systems
This SIN includes a wide range of Readers and Reader-Printers - electronic reader scanner systems, aperture card, microfilm, microfilm and universal, microfiche, microfilm - automated retrieval, microfiche, high-volume output reader-printers, sorter/collators and other related equipment. Includes directly accessories, and attachments (e.g., microfilm reel, cartridges/magazines and aperture cards (with/without film). Sales: $584,196 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333316 Description Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing Business Size 1000 employees

51 417 --- Microphotographic Film, Paper, Chemical Preparation and Equipment
This SIN covers a wide range of film, paper chemical preparation, related equipment and supplies. The film includes (silver halide used to process permanent records, computer output microfilm for COM units, duplicating film - for direct/indirect silver duplicators), dry silver

Page: 61 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

film and paper (including aperture cards that have dry silver film in the opening), standard size microfilm copy prints paper. Chemical Preparations include (e.g., developers, fixers, and specialties for reader-printer paper and a host of accessories, attachments and consumable supplies (e.g., leaders, trailers, splice, tab). The Related Equipment includes (e.g., microphotographic duplicating and developing equipment - used in the duplication of Diazo, Thermal and Silver Gelatin Microfilms), Black and White Negatives or Color Wet-Processing Equipment, Microfilm Finishing and Editing Equipment - includes microfilm finishing and editing equipment including (e.g., microfilm cutters, trimmers notchers, and splicers, jacket/aperture, card loaders and filler (e.g., mounters and inserters, magazine and cartridge loaders, manual motorized, table model station) and Microphotographic Inspection and Quality Control Equipment (used for cleaning equipment, test kits, rewinds, test targets). Includes directly related accessories and attachments (e.g., MicroFilm Reel, Cartridges/Magazines and Aperture Cards (without film). Sales: $5,132 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 325992 Description Photographic Film, Paper, Plate and Chemical Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees

51 1001 --- Introduction of New Products/Services (INPS SIN)
A new or improved product/services is a product/service, offered at any time that has the potential to provide economical or efficient means for Federal agencies to accomplish their mission. It may be a service/product existing in the commercial market, which is being developed, improved, or not yet introduced to the Federal Government. It also may perform a new task, service, or procedure within the scope of the Federal Supply Schedule, not currently available under any GSA contract. The contractor shall be capable of demonstrating that the product/service has the potential to provide greater economical or efficient means for Federal agencies to accomplish their mission; perform a new task or procedure not currently under any GSA contract. As determined by the Government, there are no similar items currently available under an existing Special Item Number (SIN). Contractors must understand that there is no guarantee that the product/service offered be recognized and accepted as a new product/service. Technical review of products/services may be considered. The Government has sole discretion to determine whether a product/service shall be accepted as a new product/service. Note: If the services proposed is found acceptable under this schedule, additional information may be required such as (e.g., samples of work requirements, past/current references) and commercial/government pricing. At that time, criteria will be developed. Sales: $5,684,393 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number Description Business Size

Page: 62 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part I - GOODS & SERVICES

333318

Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing

1000 employees

51 B36 2A --- International - All Equipment under this Schedule
Includes overseas purchase of copiers, accessories, supplies; rental/lease of copiers; and maintenance and repair and other directly related requirements. Includes all directly related accessories, attachments, and supplies. Sales: $5,001,046 Sales Period: Oct 1, 2011 to Sep 30, 2012 Cooperative Purchasing: No Set Aside: No FSC/PSC Code : 3610 Maximum Order : $350,000

NAICS
Number 333244 333249 Description Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing Business Size 500 employees 500 employees

Page: 63 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Begin Regulation

52.203-15 WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009 (JUN 2010)
(a) The Contractor shall post notice of employees rights and remedies for whistleblower protections provided under section 1553 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111ญ5) (Recovery Act). (b) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts that are funded in whole or in part with Recovery Act funds.

Begin Regulation

52.204-11 AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT ญ REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (JUL 2010)
(a) Definitions. For definitions related to this clause (e.g., contract, first-tier subcontract, total compensation etc.) see the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/recovery_faqs_contractors. These FAQs are also linked under http://www.FederalReporting.gov. (b) This contract requires the contractor to provide products and/or services that are funded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). Section 1512(c) of the Recovery Act requires each contractor to report on its use of Recovery Act funds under this contract. These reports will be made available to the public. (c) Reports from the Contractor for all work funded, in whole or in part, by the Recovery Act, are due no later than the 10th day following the end of each calendar quarter. The Contractor shall review the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Federal Contractors before each reporting cycle and prior to submitting each quarterly report as the FAQs may be updated from time-to-time. The first report is due no later than the 10th day after the end of the calendar quarter in which the Contractor received the award. Thereafter, reports shall be submitted no later than the 10th day after the end of each calendar quarter. For information on when the Contractor shall submit its final report, see http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/recovery_faqs_contractors. (d) The Contractor shall report the following information, using the online reporting tool available at http://www.FederalReporting.gov. (1) The Government contract and order number, as applicable. (2) The amount of Recovery Act funds invoiced by the contractor for the reporting period. A cumulative amount from all the reports submitted for this action will be maintained by the government's on-line reporting tool. (3) A list of all significant services performed or supplies delivered, including construction, for which the contractor invoiced in this calendar quarter. (4) Program or project title, if any. (5) A description of the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the contract, including significant deliverables and, if appropriate, associated units of measure.

Page: 64 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(6) An assessment of the contractor's progress towards the completion of the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the contract (i.e., not started, less than 50 percent completed, completed 50 percent or more, or fully completed). This covers the contract (or portion thereof) funded by the Recovery Act. (7) A narrative description of the employment impact of work funded by the Recovery Act. This narrative should be cumulative for each calendar quarter and address the impact on the Contractor's and first-tier subcontractors' workforce for all first-tier subcontracts valued at $25,000 or more. At a minimum, the Contractor shall provide -- (i) A brief description of the types of jobs created and jobs retained in the United States and outlying areas (see definition in FAR 2.101). This description may rely on job titles, broader labor categories, or the Contractor's existing practice for describing jobs as long as the terms used are widely understood and describe the general nature of the work; and (ii) An estimate of the number of jobs created and jobs retained by the prime Contractor and all first-tier subcontracts valued at $25,000 or more, in the United States and outlying areas. A job cannot be reported as both created and retained. See an example of how to calculate the number of jobs at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/recovery_faqs_contractors. (8) Names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated officers of the Contractor for the calendar year in which the contract is awarded if -- (i) In the Contractor's preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received -- (A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and (B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and (ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (9) For subcontracts valued at less than $25,000 or any subcontracts awarded to an individual, or subcontracts awarded to a subcontractor that in the previous tax year had gross income under $300,000, the Contractor shall only report the aggregate number of such first tier subcontracts awarded in the quarter and their aggregate total dollar amount. (10) For any first-tier subcontract funded in whole or in part under the Recovery Act, that is valued at $25,000 or more and not subject to reporting under paragraph 9, the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to provide the information described in paragraphs (d)(10)(i), (ix), (x), (xi), and (xii) of this section to the Contractor for the purposes of the quarterly report. The Contractor shall advise the subcontractor that the information will be made available to the public as required by section 1512 of the Recovery Act. The Contractor shall provide detailed information on these first-tier subcontracts as follows: (i) Unique identifier (DUNS Number) for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the subcontractor's parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company. (ii) Name of the subcontractor. (iii) Amount of the subcontract award. (iv) Date of the subcontract award.

Page: 65 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(v) The applicable North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code. (vi) Funding agency. (vii) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract. (viii) Subcontract number (the contract number assigned by the prime contractor). (ix) Subcontractor's physical address including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district if applicable. (x) Subcontract primary performance location including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district if applicable. (xi) Names and total compensation of each of the subcontractor's five most highly compensated officers, for the calendar year in which the subcontract is awarded if -- (A) In the subcontractor's preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received -- (1) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), and cooperative agreements; and (2) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), and cooperative agreements; and (B) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (xii) A narrative description of the employment impact of work funded by the Recovery Act. This narrative should be cumulative for each calendar quarter and address the impact on the subcontractor's workforce. At a minimum, the subcontractor shall provide -- (A) A brief description of the types of jobs created and jobs retained in the United States and outlying areas (see definition in FAR 2.101). This description may rely on job titles, broader labor categories, or the subcontractor's existing practice for describing jobs as long as the terms used are widely understood and describe the general nature of the work; and (B) An estimate of the number of jobs created and jobs retained by the subcontractor in the United States and outlying areas. A job cannot be reported as both created and retained. See an example of how to calculate the number of jobs at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/recovery_faqs_contractors.

Begin Regulation

52.212-5 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS ญ COMMERCIAL ITEMS (AUG 2012) (ALTERNATE II ญ JUL 2012)
(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses,

Page: 66 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). [ X ] Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78) (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

Number 52.203-13 52.203-6 52.204-10 52.219-13 52.219-14 52.219-16 52.219-27 52.219-28 52.219-29

Title CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (APR 2010) RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006) (ALTERNATE I -- OCT 1995) REPORTING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND FIRST-TIER SUBCONTRACT AWARDS (AUG 2012) NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE OF ORDERS (NOV 2011) LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (NOV 2011) NOTICE OF SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011) POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REREPRESENTATION (APR 2012) NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (APR 2012)

Clause/Provision Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 1999) Clause

52.219-3 52.219-30

NOTICE OF TOTAL HUBZONE SET-ASIDE OR SOLE SOURCE AWARD (NOV 2011) NOTICE OF SET-ASIDE FOR WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS ELIGIBLE UNDER THE WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM (APR 2012)

Clause Clause

52.219-6 52.219-8 52.219-9 52.222-19 52.222-21 52.222-26 52.222-3 52.222-35 52.222-36 52.222-37

NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (NOV 2011) UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JAN 2011) SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JAN 2011) (ALTERNATE II -- OCT 2001) CHILD LABOR--COOPERATION WITH AUTHORITIES AND REMEDIES (APR 2012) PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999) EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007) CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003) EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS (SEP 2010) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (OCT 2010) EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON VETERANS (SEP 2010)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

Page: 67 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

52.222-40 52.222-54 52.223-18 52.225-13 52.225-5 52.232-33 52.239-1 52.247-64

NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT (DEC 2010) EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION (JUL 2012) ENCOURAGING CONTRACTOR POLICIES TO BAN TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING (AUG 2011) RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES (JUN 2008) TRADE AGREEMENTS (MAY 2012) PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER -- CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003) PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS (AUG 1996) PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED U.S.--FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS (FEB 2006) (ALTERNATE I -- APR 2003)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

Number 52.222-42 52.222-43

Title STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES (MAY 1989)

Clause/Provision Clause

FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT Clause -- PRICE ADJUSTMENT (MULTIPLE YEAR AND OPTION CONTRACTS) (SEP 2009)

(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, an appropriate Inspector General appointed under section 3 or 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or an authorized representative of either of the foregoing officials shall have access to and right to-(i) Examine any of the Contractor's or any subcontractors' records that pertain to, and involve transactions relating to, this contract; and (ii) Interview any officer or employee regarding such transactions. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the

Page: 68 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c), of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause in a subcontract for commercial items, other than-(i) Paragraph (d) of this clause. This paragraph flows down to all subcontracts, except the authority of the Inspector General under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) does not flow down; and (ii) Those clauses listed in this paragraph (e)(1). Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause ญ (A) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). (B) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (C) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (D) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (E) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (F) 52.222ญ36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (G) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222ญ40. (H) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (I) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (J) 52.222ญ51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (K) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (L) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (M) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6. (N) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247ญ64.

Page: 69 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. [Note to Offerors: If choosing not to accept orders funded in whole or in part by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), this clause will be replaced with the base clause, meaning that Alternate II is not applicable.]

Begin Regulation

52.216-18 ORDERING (OCT 1995) (DEVIATION II -- FEB 2007)
(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from Date of Award through Contract expiration date. (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the ordering activity deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule.

Begin Regulation

52.216-19 ORDER LIMITATIONS (OCT 1995) (DEVIATION II -- FEB 2007)16.506(b)
(a) Minimum order. When the ordering activity requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $100, the ordering activity is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor-- (1) Any order for a single item in excess of (See Goods and Services Section of the Solicitation Document); (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of $500,000; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within 10 days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b) (1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the ordering activity is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 10 days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the ordering activity may acquire the supplies or services from another source.

Begin Regulation

Page: 70 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

52.216-22 INDEFINITE QUANTITY (DEVIATION I--JAN 1994)
16.506(e) FSS A/L FC-94-2 (a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule. The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Guaranteed Minimum clause and the Delivery Order Limitations clause, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period.

Begin Regulation

52.222-41 SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965 (NOV 2007)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clauseญ Act means the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). Contractor when this clause is used in any subcontract, shall be deemed to refer to the subcontractor, except in the term "Government Prime Contractor." Service employee means any person engaged in the performance of this contract other than any person employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as these terms are defined in Part 541 of Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, as revised. It includes all such persons regardless of any contractual relationship that may be alleged to exist between a Contractor or subcontractor. (b) Applicability. This contract is subject to the following provisions and to all other applicable provisions of the Act and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4). This clause does not apply to contracts or subcontracts administratively exempted by the Secretary of Labor or exempted by 41 U.S.C. 356, as interpreted in subpart C of 29 CFR Part 4. (c) Compensation. (1) Each service employee employed in the performance of this contract by the Contractor or any subcontractor shall be paid not less than the minimum monetary wages and shall be furnished fringe benefits in accordance with the wages and fringe benefits determined by the Secretary of Labor or authorized representative, as specified in any wage determination attached to this contract. (2) (i) If a wage determination is attached to this contract, the Contractor shall classify any class of service employee which is not listed herein and which is to be employed under the contract (i.e., the work to be performed is not performed by any classification listed in the wage determination), so as to provide a reasonable relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between such unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the wage determination. Such conformed class of employees shall be paid the monetary wages and furnished the fringe benefits as are determined pursuant to the procedures in this paragraph (c). (ii) This conforming procedure shall be initiated by the Contractor prior to the

Page: 71 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

performance of contract work by the unlisted class of employee. The Contractor shall submit Standard Form (SF) 1444, Request for Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate, to the Contracting Officer no later than 30 days after the unlisted class of employee performs any contract work. The Contracting Officer shall review the proposed classification and rate and promptly submit the completed SF 1444 (which must include information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the employees' authorized representatives or the employees themselves together with the agency recommendation), and all pertinent information to the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. The Wage and Hour Division will approve, modify, or disapprove the action or render a final determination in the event of disagreement within 30 days of receipt or will notify the Contracting Officer within 30 days of receipt that additional time is necessary. (iii) The final determination of the conformance action by the Wage and Hour Division shall be transmitted to the Contracting Officer who shall promptly notify the Contractor of the action taken. Each affected employee shall be furnished by the Contractor with a written copy of such determination or it shall be posted as a part of the wage determination. (iv) (A) The process of establishing wage and fringe benefit rates that bear a reasonable relationship to those listed in a wage determination cannot be reduced to any single formula. The approach used may vary from wage determination to wage determination depending on the circumstances. Standard wage and salary administration practices which rank various job classifications by pay grade pursuant to point schemes or other job factors may, for example, be relied upon. Guidance may also be obtained from the way different jobs are rated under Federal pay systems (Federal Wage Board Pay System and the General Schedule) or from other wage determinations issued in the same locality. Basic to the establishment of any conformable wage rate(s) is the concept that a pay relationship should be maintained between job classifications based on the skill required and the duties performed. (B) In the case of a contract modification, an exercise of an option or extension of an existing contract, or in any other case where a Contractor succeeds a contract under which the classification in question was previously conformed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause, a new conformed wage rate and fringe benefits may be assigned to the conformed classification by indexing (i.e., adjusting) the previous conformed rate and fringe benefits by an amount equal to the average (mean) percentage increase (or decrease, where appropriate) between the wages and fringe benefits specified for all classifications to be used on the contract which are listed in the current wage determination, and those specified for the corresponding classifications in the previously applicable wage determination. Where conforming actions are accomplished in accordance with this paragraph prior to the performance of contract work by the unlisted class of employees, the Contractor shall advise the Contracting Officer of the action taken but the other procedures in subdivision (c)(2)(ii) of this clause need not be followed. (C) No employee engaged in performing work on this contract shall in any event be paid less than the currently applicable minimum wage specified under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended. (v) The wage rate and fringe benefits finally determined under this subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause shall be paid to all employees performing in the classification from the first day on which contract work is performed by them in the classification. Failure to pay the unlisted employees the compensation agreed upon by the interested parties and/or finally determined by the Wage and Hour Division retroactive to the date such class of employees commenced contract work shall be a violation of the Act and this contract.

Page: 72 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(vi) Upon discovery of failure to comply with subparagraphs (b)(2) of this clause, the Wage and Hour Division shall make a final determination of conformed classification, wage rate, and/or fringe benefits which shall be retroactive to the date such class or classes of employees commenced contract work. (3) Adjustment of Compensation. If the term of this contract is more than 1 year, the minimum monetary wages and fringe benefits required to be paid or furnished thereunder to service employees under the contract shall be subject to adjustment after 1 year and not less often than once every 2 years, under wage determinations issued by the Wage and Hour Division. (d) Obligation to Furnish Fringe Benefits. The Contractor or subcontractor may discharge the obligation to furnish fringe benefits specified in the attachment or determined under subparagraph (c)(2) of this clause by furnishing equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits, or by making equivalent or differential cash payments, only in accordance with Subpart D of 29 CFR Part 4. (e) Minimum Wage. In the absence of a minimum wage attachment for this contract, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any person performing work under this contract (regardless of whether the person is a service employee) less than the minimum wage specified by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor or any subcontractor of any other obligation under law or contract for payment of a higher wage to any employee. (f) Successor Contracts. If this contract succeeds a contract subject to the Act under which substantially the same services were furnished in the same locality and service employees were paid wages and fringe benefits provided for in a collective bargaining agreement, in the absence of the minimum wage attachment for this contract setting forth such collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any service employee performing any of the contract work (regardless of whether or not such employee was employed under the predecessor contract), less than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in such collective bargaining agreement to which such employee would have been entitled if employed under the predecessor contract, including accrued wages and fringe benefits and any prospective increases in wages and fringe benefits provided for under such agreement. No Contractor or subcontractor under this contract may be relieved of the foregoing obligation unless the limitations of 29 CFR 4.1b(b) apply or unless the Secretary of Labor or authorized representative finds, after a hearing as provided in 29 CFR 4.10 that the wages and/or fringe benefits provided for in such agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, or determines, as provided in 29 CFR 4.11, that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's length negotiations. Where it is found in accordance with the review procedures provided in 29 CFR 4.10 and/or 4.11 and Parts 6 and 8 that some or all of the wages and/or fringe benefits contained in a predecessor Contractor's collective bargaining agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, and/or that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm's length negotiations, the Department will issue a new or revised wage determination setting forth the applicable wage rates and fringe benefits. Such determination shall be made part of the contract or subcontract, in accordance with the decision of the Administrator, the Administrative Law Judge, or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, irrespective of whether such issuance occurs prior to or after the award of a contract or subcontract. 53 Comp. Gen. 401 (1973). In the case of a wage determination issued solely as a result of a finding of substantial variance, such determination shall be effective as of the date of the final administrative decision. (g) Notification to employees. The Contractor and any subcontractor under this contract shall notify each service employee commencing work on this contract of the minimum monetary wage and any fringe benefits required to be paid pursuant to this contract, or shall post the wage determination attached to this contract. The poster provided by the Department of Labor (Publication WH 1313) shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Failure to comply with this requirement is a violation of section 2(a)(4) of the Act and of this contract.

Page: 73 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(h) Safe and Sanitary Working Conditions. The Contractor or subcontractor shall not permit any part of the services called for by this contract to be performed in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions provided by or under the control or supervision of the Contractor or subcontractor which are unsanitary or hazardous or dangerous to the health or safety of the service employee. The Contractor or subcontractor shall comply with the safety and health standards applied under 29 CFR Part 1925. (i) Records. (1) The Contractor and each subcontractor performing work subject to the Act shall make and maintain for 3 years from the completion of the work, and make them available for inspection and transcription by authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, a record of the following: (i) For each employee subject to the Act-- (A) Name and address and social security number; (B) Correct work classification or classifications, rate or rates of monetary wages paid and fringe benefits provided, rate or rates of payments in lieu of fringe benefits, and total daily and weekly compensation; (C) Daily and weekly hours worked by each employee; and (D) Any deductions, rebates, or refunds from the total daily or weekly compensation of each employee. (ii) For those classes of service employees not included in any wage determination attached to this contract, wage rates or fringe benefits determined by the interested parties or by the Administrator or authorized representative under the terms of paragraph (c) of this clause. A copy of the report required by subdivision (c)(2)(ii) of this clause will fulfill this requirement. (iii) Any list of the predecessor Contractor's employees which had been furnished to the Contractor as prescribed by paragraph (n) of this clause. (2) The Contractor shall also make available a copy of this contract for inspection or transcription by authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division. (3) Failure to make and maintain or to make available these records for inspection and transcription shall be a violation of the regulations and this contract, and in the case of failure to produce these records, the Contracting Officer, upon direction of the Department of Labor and notification to the Contractor, shall take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until the violation ceases. (4) The Contractor will permit authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division to conduct interviews with employees at the worksite during normal working hours. (j) Pay Periods. The Contractor shall unconditionally pay to each employee subject to the Act all wages due free and clear and without subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by law or Regulations, 29 CFR Part 4), rebate, or kickback on any account. These payments shall be made no later than one pay period following the end of the regular pay period in which the wages were earned or accrued. A pay period under this Act may not be of any duration longer than semimonthly. (k) Withholding of Payments and Termination of Contract. The Contracting Officer shall withhold or cause to be withheld from the Government prime Contractor under this or any other Government contract with the prime Contractor such sums as an appropriate official of the Department of Labor requests or such sums as the Contracting Officer decides may be necessary to pay underpaid employees employed by the Contractor or subcontractor. In the event of failure to pay any employees subject to the Act all or part of the wages or fringe benefits due under the Act, the Contracting Officer may, after authorization or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification to the Contractor, take

Page: 74 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such violations have ceased. Additionally, any failure to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for termination of the right to proceed with the contract work. In such event, the Government may either enter into other contracts or arrangements for completion of the work, charging the Contractor in default with any additional cost. (l) Subcontracts. The Contractor agrees to insert this clause in all subcontracts subject to the Act. (m) Collective Bargaining Agreements Applicable to Service Employees. If wages to be paid or fringe benefits to be furnished any service employees employed by the Government prime Contractor or any subcontractor under the contract are provided for in a collective bargaining agreement which is or will be effective during any period in which the contract is being performed, the Government prime Contractor shall report such fact to the Contracting Officer, together with full information as to the application and accrual of such wages and fringe benefits, including any prospective increases, to service employees engaged in work on the contract, and a copy of the collective bargaining agreement. Such report shall be made upon commencing performance of the contract, in the case of collective bargaining agreements effective at such time, and in the case of such agreements or provisions or amendments thereof effective at a later time during the period of contract performance such agreements shall be reported promptly after negotiation thereof. (n) Seniority List. Not less than 10 days prior to completion of any contract being performed at a Federal facility where service employees may be retained in the performance of the succeeding contract and subject to a wage determination which contains vacation or other benefit provisions based upon length of service with a Contractor (predecessor) or successor (29 CFR 4.173), the incumbent prime Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names of all service employees on the Contractor's or subcontractor's payroll during the last month of contract performance. Such list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment on the contract either with the current or predecessor Contractors of each such service employee. The Contracting Officer shall turn over such list to the successor Contractor at the commencement of the succeeding contract. (o) Ruling and Interpretations. Rulings and interpretations of the Act are contained in Regulations, 29 CFR Part 4. (p) Contractor's Certification. (1) By entering into this contract, the Contractor (and officials thereof) certifies that neither it (nor he or she) nor any person or firm who has a substantial interest in the Contractor's firm is a person or firm ineligible to be awarded Government contracts by virtue of the sanctions imposed under section 5 of the Act. (2) No part of this contract shall be subcontracted to any person or firm ineligible for award of a Government contract under section 5 of the Act. (3) The penalty for making false statements is prescribed in the U.S. Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. 1001. (q) Variations, Tolerances, and Exemptions Involving Employment. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (o) of this clause, the following employees may be employed in accordance with the following variations, tolerances, and exemptions, which the Secretary of Labor, pursuant to section 4(b) of the Act prior to its amendment by Pub. L. 92-473, found to be necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid serious impairment of the conduct of Government business. (1) Apprentices, student-learners, and workers whose earning capacity is impaired by age, physical or mental deficiency or injury may be employed at wages lower than the minimum wages otherwise required by section 2(a)(1) or 2(b)(1) of the Act without diminishing any fringe benefits or cash payments in lieu thereof required under section 2(a)(2) of the Act, in accordance with the conditions and procedures prescribed for the employment of apprentices, student-learners, handicapped persons, and handicapped clients of sheltered workshops under section 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, in the regulations issued by the Administrator (29 CFR Parts 520, 521, 524, and 525).

Page: 75 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(2) The Administrator will issue certificates under the Act for the employment of apprentices, student-learners, handicapped persons, or handicapped clients of sheltered workshops not subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, or subject to different minimum rates of pay under the two acts, authorizing appropriate rates of minimum wages (but without changing requirements concerning fringe benefits or supplementary cash payments in lieu thereof), applying procedures prescribed by the applicable regulations issued under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 CFR Parts 520, 521, 524, and 525). (3) The Administrator will also withdraw, annul, or cancel such certificates in accordance with the regulations in 29 CFR Parts 525 and 528. (r) Apprentices. Apprentices will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work they perform when they are employed and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with a State Apprenticeship Agency which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor, or if no such recognized agency exists in a State, under a program registered with the Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS), U.S. Department of Labor. Any employee who is not registered as an apprentice in an approved program shall be paid the wage rate and fringe benefits contained in the applicable wage determination for the journeyman classification of work actually performed. The wage rates paid apprentices shall not be less than the wage rate for their level of progress set forth in the registered program, expressed as the appropriate percentage of the journeyman's rate contained in the applicable wage determination. The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen employed on the contract work in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the Contractor as to his entire work force under the registered program. (s) Tips. An employee engaged in an occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips may have the amount of these tips credited by the employer against the minimum wage required by section 2(a)(1) or section 2(b)(1) of the Act, in accordance with section 3(m) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and Regulations 29 CFR Part 531. However, the amount of credit shall not exceed $1.34 per hour beginning January 1, 1981. To use this provision-- (1) The employer must inform tipped employees about this tip credit allowance before the credit is utilized; (2) The employees must be allowed to retain all tips (individually or through a pooling arrangement and regardless of whether the employer elects to take a credit for tips received); (3) The employer must be able to show by records that the employee receives at least the applicable Service Contract Act minimum wage through the combination of direct wages and tip credit; (4) The use of such tip credit must have been permitted under any predecessor collective bargaining agreement applicable by virtue of section 4(c) of the Act. (t) Disputes Concerning Labor Standards. The U.S. Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR Parts 4, 6, and 8 procedures for resolving disputes concerning labor standards requirements. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. Disputes within the meaning of this clause include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives.

Begin Regulation

52.223-11 OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (MAY 2001)
(a) Definitions. "Ozone-depleting substance," as used in this clause, means any substance the Environmental Protection

Page: 76 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Agency designates in 40 CFR Part 82 as -- (1) Class I, including, but not limited to, chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl chloroform; or (2) Class II, including, but not limited to, hydrochlorofluorocarbons. (b) The Contractor shall label products which contain or are manufactured with ozone-depleting substances in the manner and to the extent required by 42 U.S.C. 7671j (b), (c), and (d) and 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart E, as follows: "WARNING: Contains (or manufactured with, if applicable) ______________,* a substance(s) which harm(s) public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere." * The Contractor shall insert the name of the substance(s).

Begin Regulation

52.223-15 Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007)
(a) Definition. As used in this clause-Energy-efficient product-(1) Means a product that-(i) Meets Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Agency criteria for use of the Energy Star trademark label; or (ii) Is in the upper 25 percent of efficiency for all similar products as designated by the Department of Energy's Federal Energy Management Program. (2) The term "product'' does not include any energy-consuming product or system designed or procured for combat or combat-related missions (42 U.S.C. 8259b). (b) The Contractor shall ensure that energy-consuming products are energy efficient products (i.e., ENERGY STARฎ products or FEMP-designated products) at the time of contract award, for products that are-(1) Delivered; (2) Acquired by the Contractor for use in performing services at a Federally-controlled facility; (3) Furnished by the Contractor for use by the Government; or (4) Specified in the design of a building or work, or incorporated during its construction, renovation, or maintenance. (c) The requirements of paragraph (b) apply to the Contractor (including any subcontractor) unless-(1) The energy-consuming product is not listed in the ENERGY STARฎ Program or FEMP; or (2) Otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. (d) Information about these products is available for--

Page: 77 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(1) ENERGY STARฎ at http://www.energystar.gov/products; and (2) FEMP at http://www1.eere.energy.gov/femp/procurement/eep_requirements.html

Begin Regulation

52.223-3 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA (JAN 1997)
(a) "Hazardous material," as used in this clause, includes any material defined as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313 (including revisions adopted during the term of the contract). (b) The offeror must list any hazardous material, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, to be delivered under this contract. The hazardous material shall be properly identified and include any applicable identification number, such as National Stock Number or Special Item Number. This information shall also be included on the Material Safety Data Sheet submitted under this contract. Material (If none, insert "None") Identification No.

(c) This list must be updated during performance of the contract whenever the Contractor determines that any other material to be delivered under this contract is hazardous. (d) The apparently successful offeror agrees to submit, for each item as required prior to award, a Material Safety Data Sheet, meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313, for all hazardous material identified in paragraph (b) of this clause. Data shall be submitted in accordance with Federal Standard No. 313, whether or not the apparently successful offeror is the actual manufacturer of these items. Failure to submit the Material Safety Data Sheet prior to award may result in the apparently successful offeror being considered nonresponsible and ineligible for award. (e) If, after award, there is a change in the composition of the item(s) or a revision to Federal Standard No. 313, which renders incomplete or inaccurate the data submitted under paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and resubmit the data. (f) Neither the requirements of this clause nor any act or failure to act by the Government shall relieve the Contractor of any responsibility or liability for the safety of Government, Contractor, or subcontractor personnel or property. (g) Nothing contained in this clause shall relieve the Contractor from complying with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits) in connection with hazardous material. (h) The Government's rights in data furnished under this contract with respect to hazardous material are as follows: (1) To use, duplicate and disclose any data to which this clause is applicable. The purposes of this right are to--

Page: 78 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(i) Apprise personnel of the hazards to which they may be exposed in using, handling, packaging, transporting, or disposing of hazardous materials; (ii) Obtain medical treatment for those affected by the material; and (iii) Have others use, duplicate, and disclose the data for the Government for these purposes. (2) To use, duplicate, and disclose data furnished under this clause, in accordance with subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, in precedence over any other clause of this contract providing for rights in data. (3) The Government is not precluded from using similar or identical data acquired from other sources.

Begin Regulation

52.223-3 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA (JAN 1997) (ALTERNATE I--JUL 1995)
(a) Hazardous material, as used in this clause, includes any material defined as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313 (including revisions adopted during the term of the contract). (b) The offeror must list any hazardous material, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, to be delivered under this contract. The hazardous material shall be properly identified and include any applicable identification number, such as National Stock Number or Special Item Number. This information shall also be included on the Material Safety Data Sheet submitted under this contract. Material (If none, insert None) Identification No.

(c) This list must be updated during performance of the contract whenever the Contractor determines that any other material to be delivered under this contract is hazardous. (d) The apparently successful offeror agrees to submit, for each item as required prior to award, a Material Safety Data Sheet, meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313, for all hazardous material identified in paragraph (b) of this clause. Data shall be submitted in accordance with Federal Standard No. 313, whether or not the apparently successful offeror is the actual manufacturer of these items. Failure to submit the Material Safety Data Sheet prior to award may result in the apparently successful offeror being considered nonresponsible and ineligible for award. (e) If, after award, there is a change in the composition of the item(s) or a revision to Federal Standard No. 313, which renders incomplete or inaccurate the data submitted under paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and resubmit the data. (f) Neither the requirements of this clause nor any act or failure to act by the Government shall relieve the Contractor of any responsibility or liability for the safety of Government, Contractor, or

Page: 79 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

subcontractor personnel or property. (g) Nothing contained in this clause shall relieve the Contractor from complying with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits) in connection with hazardous material. (h) The Government's rights in data furnished under this contract with respect to hazardous material are as follows: (1) To use, duplicate and disclose any data to which this clause is applicable. The purposes of this right are to-- (i) Apprise personnel of the hazards to which they may be exposed in using, handling, packaging, transporting, or disposing of hazardous materials; (ii) Obtain medical treatment for those affected by the material; and (iii) Have others use, duplicate, and disclose the data for the Government for these purposes. (2) To use, duplicate, and disclose data furnished under this clause, in accordance with subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, in precedence over any other clause of this contract providing for rights in data. (3) The Government is not precluded from using similar or identical data acquired from other sources. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) the Contractor shall prepare and submit a sufficient number of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS's), meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard No. 313, for all hazardous materials identified in paragraph (b) of this clause. (1) For items shipped to consignees, the Contractor shall include a copy of the MSDS with the packing list or other suitable shipping document which accompanies each shipment. Alternatively, the Contractor is permitted to transmit MSDS's to consignees in advance of receipt of shipments by consignees, if authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. (2) For items shipped to consignees identified by mailing address as agency depots, distribution centers or customer supply centers, the Contractor shall provide one copy of the MSDS's in or on each shipping container. If affixed to the outside of each container, the MSDS must be placed in a weather resistant envelope.

Begin Regulation

52.223-7 NOTICE OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS (JAN 1997)
(a) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer or designee, in writing, 60 days prior to the delivery of, or prior to completion of any servicing required by this contract of, items containing either (1) radioactive material requiring specific licensing under the regulations issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, as set forth in Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in effect on the date of this contract, or (2) other radioactive material not requiring specific licensing in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or the activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries. Such notice shall specify the part or parts of the items which contain radioactive materials, a description of the materials, the name and activity of the isotope, the manufacturer of the materials, and any other information known to the Contractor which will put users of the items on notice as to the hazards involved (OMB No. 9000-0107).

Page: 80 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(b) If there has been no change affecting the quantity of activity, or the characteristics and composition of the radioactive material from deliveries under this contract or prior contracts, the Contractor may request that the Contracting Officer or designee waive the notice requirement in paragraph (a) of this clause. Any such request shall-- (1) Be submitted in writing; (2) State that the quantity of activity, characteristics, and composition of the radioactive material have not changed; and (3) Cite the contract number on which the prior notification was submitted and the contracting office to which it was submitted. (c) All items, parts, or subassemblies which contain radioactive materials in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries, and all containers in which such items, parts or subassemblies are delivered to the Government shall be clearly marked and labeled as required by the latest revision of MIL-STD 129 in effect on the date of the contract. (d) This clause, including this paragraph (d), shall be inserted in all subcontracts for radioactive materials meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this clause.

Begin Regulation

52.232-99 PROVIDING ACCELERATED PAYMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTORS (DEVIATION) (AUG 2012)
This clause implements the temporary policy provided by OMB Policy Memorandum M-12-16, Providing Prompt Payment to Small Business Subcontractors, dated July 11, 2012. (a) Upon receipt of accelerated payments from the Government, the contractor is required to make accelerated payments to small business subcontractors to the maximum extent practicable after receipt of a proper invoice and all proper documentation from the small business subcontractor. (b) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all subcontracts with small business concerns. (c) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act.

Begin Regulation

52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): For contract clauses which are contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) the address is http://acquisition.gov/far/.

Number 52.202-1

Title DEFINITIONS (JAN 2012)

Clause/Provision Clause

Page: 81 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

52.203-3 52.204-4 52.204-9 52.207-5 52.208-9 52.209-10 52.211-16 52.212-4 52.215-21

GRATUITIES (APR 1984) PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED ON POSTCONSUMER FIBER CONTENT PAPER (MAY 2011) PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (JAN 2011) OPTION TO PURCHASE EQUIPMENT (FEB 1995) CONTRACTOR USE OF MANDATORY SOURCES OF SUPPLY OR SERVICES (OCT 2008)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH INVERTED DOMESTIC Clause CORPORATIONS (MAY 2012) VARIATION IN QUANTITY (APR 1984) CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) (DEVIATION I -- FEB 2007) REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA--MODIFICATIONS (OCT 2010) (ALTERNATE IV - OCT 2010) Clause Clause Clause

52.217-8 52.222-1 52.222-49 52.222-7 52.222-8 52.222-9 52.223-10 52.223-5 52.224-1 52.224-2 52.228-5 52.229-1 52.229-3 52.232-17 52.232-19 52.232-34

OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) NOTICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES (FEB 1997) SERVICE CONTRACT ACT -- PLACE OF PERFORMANCE UNKNOWN (MAY 1989) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS (FEB 1988) PAYROLLS AND BASIC RECORDS (JUN 2010) APPRENTICES AND TRAINEES (JUL 2005) WASTE REDUCTION PROGRAM (MAY 2011) POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION (MAY 2011) PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984) PRIVACY ACT (APR 1984) 1997) STATE AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984) FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 2003) (DEVIATION I - FEB 2007) INTEREST (OCT 2010) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR (APR 1984) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

INSURANCE--WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION (JAN Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--OTHER THAN Clause CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (MAY 1999) (DEVIATION I - FEB 2007)

52.232-36 52.232-37 52.233-1 52.237-2 52.237-3

PAYMENT BY THIRD PARTY (FEB 2010) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003) MULTIPLE PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS (MAY 1999) DISPUTES (JUL 2002) PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION (APR 1984) CONTINUITY OF SERVICES (JAN 1991)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

Page: 82 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

52.242-13 52.242-15 52.246-4 52.247-1 52.247-32 52.247-34 52.247-38 52.247-39 52.247-58

BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995) STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003) COMMERCIAL BILL OF LADING NOTATIONS (FEB 2006) F.O.B. ORIGIN, FREIGHT PREPAID (FEB 2006) F.O.B. DESTINATION (NOV 1991) (DEVIATION I - MAY 2003) F.O.B. INLAND POINT, COUNTRY OF IMPORTATION (APR 1984) LOADING, BLOCKING, AND BRACING OF FREIGHT CAR AND TRAILER-ON-FLAT CAR (PIGGYBACK) SHIPMENTS (DEVIATION I - OCT 1984)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

F.O.B. INLAND CARRIER, POINT OF EXPORTATION (FEB 2006) Clause

52.247-65 52.247-68 552.211-73 552.211-75 552.211-77 552.212-70 552.229-71 552.232-74 552.232-79 552.232-8 552.232-81 552.232-83 552.238-73 552.238-77 C-FSS-412 D-FSS-471 D-FSS-477 I-FSS-314 I-FSS-594

F.O.B. ORIGIN, PREPAID FREIGHT--SMALL PACKAGE SHIPMENTS (JAN 1991) REPORT OF SHIPMENT (REPSHIP) (FEB 2006) MARKING (FEB 1996) PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, AND PACKING (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003) PACKING LIST (FEB 1996) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003) PREPARATION OF OFFER (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (AUG 1997) FEDERAL EXCISE TAX--DC GOVERNMENT (SEP 1999) INVOICE PAYMENTS (SEP 1999) PAYMENT BY CREDIT CARD (MAY 2003) FAR 52.232-8) PAYMENTS BY NON-FEDERAL ORDERING ACTIVITIES (MAY 2003) CONTRACTOR'S BILLING RESPONSIBILITIES (MAY 2003) CANCELLATION (SEP 1999) DEFINITION (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (MAY 2003) CHARACTERISTICS OF ELECTRIC CURRENT (MAY 2000) MARKING AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS PER SHIPMENT (APR 1984) TRANSSHIPMENTS (APR 1984) FOREIGN TAXES AND DUTIES (DEC 1990) PARTS AND SERVICE (OCT 1988)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (APR 1989) (DEVIATION Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

Begin Regulation

552.211-15 Defense Priorities and Allocations System Requirements (SEP 2004)
(a) Definitions. Approved program means a program determined to be necessary or appropriate for priorities and allocation support to promote the national defense by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy,

Page: 83 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

or the Department of Homeland Security Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response under the authority of the Defense Production Act, the Stafford Act, and Executive Order 12919, or the Selective Service Act and related statutes, and Executive Order 12742. See Schedule 1 of 15 CFR part 700 for a list of Delegate Agencies, approved programs, and program identification symbols at http://www.bis.doc.gov/DefenseIndustrialBasePrograms/OSIES/DPAS/Default.htm. Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) means the regulation published at 15 CFR part 700 that requires preferential treatment for certain contracts and orders placed by a Delegate Agency in support of an approved program. Delegate Agency means an agency of the U.S. Government authorized by delegation from the Department of Commerce (DOC) to place priority ratings on contracts or orders needed to support approved programs. Rated order means, for the purpose of this contract, a delivery or task order issued in accordance with the provisions of the DPAS regulation (15 CFR part 700). (b) Rated Order Requirement. From time to time, the Contractor may receive a rated order under this contract from a Delegate Agency. The Contractor must give preferential treatment to rated orders as required by the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700). The existence of previously accepted unrated or lower rated orders is not sufficient reason to reject a rated order. Rated orders take preference over all unrated orders as necessary to meet required delivery dates. There are two levels of ratings designated by the symbol of either "DO" or "DX." All "DO" rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over unrated orders. All "DX" rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over "DO" rated orders and unrated orders. The rating designation is followed by a program identification symbol. Program identification symbols indicate which approved program is supported by the rated order (see Schedule 1 of 15 CFR part 700 for a list of Delegate Agencies, approved programs, and program identification symbols). (c) Additional information. Additional information may be obtained at the DOC DPAS website http://www.bis.doc.gov/DefenseIndustrialBasePrograms/OSIES/DPAS/Default.htm or by contacting the designated Administrative Contracting Officer.

Begin Regulation

552.211-78 COMMERCIAL DELIVERY SCHEDULE (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (FEB 1996)
(a) Time of Delivery. The Contractor shall deliver to destination within the number of calendar days after receipt of order (ARO) in the case of F.O.B. Destination prices; or to place of shipment in transit in the case of F.O.B. Origin prices, as set forth below. Offerors shall insert in the "Time of Delivery (days ARO)" column in the schedule of Items a definite number of calendar days within which delivery will be made. In no case shall the offered delivery time exceed the Contractor's normal commercial practice. The Government requires the Contractor's normal commercial delivery time, as long as it is less than the "stated" delivery time(s) shown below. If the Offeror does not insert a delivery time in the schedule of items, the Offeror will be deemed to offer delivery in accordance with the Government's stated delivery time, as stated below: ITEMS OR GROUP OF ITEMS (Special item No. or nomenclature) GOVERNMENT STATED DELIVERY TIME (Days ARO) CONTRACTOR'S NORMAL COMMERCIAL DELIVERY TIME

Page: 84 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

ALL

30

__________

___

___

__________

___

___

__________

(b) Expedited Delivery Times. For those items that can be delivered quicker than the delivery times in paragraph (a), above, the Offeror is requested to insert below, a time (hours/days ARO) that delivery can be made when expedited delivery is requested.

ITEM OR GROUP OF ITEMS (Special Item No. of nomenclature)

Expedited Delivery Time (Hours/Days ARO)

______

______

______

______

______

______

(c) Overnight and 2-Day Delivery Times. Ordering activities may require overnight or 2--day delivery. The Offeror is requested to annotate its price list or by separate attachment identify the items that can be delivered overnight or within 2 days. Contractors offering such delivery services will be required to state in the cover sheet to its FSS price list details concerning this service.

Begin Regulation

552.212-71 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO GSA ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (JUL 2003)
The Contractor agrees to comply with any provision or clause that is incorporated herein by reference to implement agency policy applicable to acquisition of commercial items or components. The provision or clause in effect based on the applicable regulation cited on the date the solicitation is issued applies unless otherwise stated herein. The following provisions and clauses are incorporated by reference:

Number 552.203-71 552.215-71

Title RESTRICTION ON ADVERTISING (SEP 1999) EXAMINATION OF RECORDS BY GSA (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (JUL 2003)

Clause/Provision Clause Clause

Page: 85 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

552.215-72 552.229-70 552.232-23 552.238-71 552.238-74 552.238-75 552.243-72 552.246-73

PRICE ADJUSTMENT--FAILURE TO PROVIDE ACCURATE INFORMATION (AUG 1997) FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES (APR 1984) ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (SEP 1999) SUBMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AUTHORIZED FSS SCHEDULE PRICELISTS (SEP 1999) (DEVIATION I -- DEC 2004) INDUSTRIAL FUNDING FEE AND SALES REPORTING (JUL 2003) PRICE REDUCTIONS (MAY 2004) (ALTERNATE I - MAY 2003) MODIFICATIONS (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (JUL 2000) (DEVIATION I - SEP 2010) WARRANTY--MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE (MAR 2000)

Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause Clause

Begin Regulation

552.212-72 CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO GSA ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS (SEP 2003)
The Contractor agrees to comply with any provision or clause that is incorporated herein by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive Orders applicable to acquisition of commercial items or components. The provision or clause in effect based on the applicable regulation cited on the date the solicitation is issued applies unless otherwise stated herein. The following provisions and clauses are incorporated by reference:

Number 552.223-70 552.223-71 552.238-70

Title HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (MAY 1989) NONCONFORMING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (SEP 1999) IDENTIFICATION OF ELECTRONIC OFFICE EQUIPMENT PROVIDING ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE HANDICAPPED (SEP 1991)

Clause/Provision Clause Clause Clause

552.238-72

IDENTIFICATION OF PRODUCTS THAT HAVE ENVIRONMENTAL ATTRIBUTES (SEP 2003)

Clause

Begin Regulation

552.216-70 ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT--FSS MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE CONTRACTS (SEP 1999) (ALTERNATE I--SEP 1999)
Price adjustments include price increases and price decreases. Adjustments will be considered as follows: (a) Contractors shall submit price decreases anytime during the contract period in which they occur. Price decreases will be handled in accordance with the provisions of the Price Reduction Clause. (b) Contractors may request price increases to be effective on or after the first 12 months of the contract period providing all of the following conditions are met:

Page: 86 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(1) Increases resulting from a reissue or other modification of the Contractor's commercial catalog/pricelist that was used as the basis for the contract award. (2) No more than three increases will be considered during each succeeding 12-month period of the contract.(For succeeding contract periods of less than 12 months, up to three increases will be considered subject to the other conditions of this subparagraph (b)). (3) Increases are requested before the last 60 days of the contract period. (4) At least 30 days elapse between requested increases. (c) In any contract period during which price increases will be considered, the aggregate of the increases during any 12-month period shall not exceed 20 percent for products and 8 percent for services percent of the contract unit price in effect at the end of the preceding 12-month period. The Government reserves the right to raise the ceiling when market conditions during the contract period support such a change. (d) The following material shall be submitted with the request for a price increase: (1) A copy of the commercial catalog/pricelist showing the price increase and the effective date for commercial customers. (2) Commercial Sales Practice format regarding the Contractor's commercial pricing practice relating to the reissued or modified catalog/pricelist, or a certification that no change has occurred in the data since completion of the initial negotiation or a subsequent submission. (3) Documentation supporting the reasonableness of the price increase. (e) The Government reserves the right to exercise one of the following options: (1) Accept the Contractor's price increases as requested when all conditions of (b), (c), and (d) of this clause are satisfied; (2) Negotiate more favorable discounts from the new commercial prices when the total increase requested is not supported; or, (3) Remove the product(s) from contract involved pursuant to the Cancellation Clause of this contract, when the increase requested is not supported. (f) The contract modification reflecting the price adjustment shall be signed by the Government and made effective upon receipt of notification from the Contractor that the new catalog/pricelist has been mailed to the addressees previously furnished by the Contracting Officer, provided that in no event shall such price adjustment be effective prior to the effective date of the commercial price increases. The increased contract prices shall apply to delivery orders issued to the Contractor on or after the effective date of the contract modification.

Begin Regulation

552.216-72 PLACEMENT OF ORDERS (AUG 2010)
(a) Delivery orders (orders) will be placed by: Eligible Ordering Activities (b) Orders may be placed through Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) or mailed in paper form. EDI orders shall be placed using the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) X12 Standard for

Page: 87 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) format. (c) If the Contractor agrees, General Services Administration's Federal Acquisition Service (FAS) will place all orders by EDI using computer-to-computer EDI. If computer-to-computer EDI is not possible, FAS will use an alternative EDI method allowing the Contractor to receive orders by facsimile transmission. Subject to the Contractor's agreement, other agencies may place orders by EDI. (d) When computer-to-computer EDI procedures will be used to place orders, the Contractor shall enter into one or more Trading Partner Agreements (TPA) with each Federal agency placing orders electronically in order to ensure mutual understanding by the parties of certain electronic transaction conventions and to recognize the rights and responsibilities of the parties as they apply to this method of placing orders. The TPA must identify, among other things, the third party provider(s) through which electronic orders are placed, the transaction sets used, security procedures, and guidelines for implementation. Federal agencies may obtain a sample format to customize as needed from the office specified in (g) below. (e) The Contractor shall be responsible for providing its own hardware and software necessary to transmit and receive data electronically. Additionally, each party to the TPA shall be responsible for the costs associated with its use of third party provider services. (f) Nothing in the TPA will invalidate any part of this contract between the Contractor and the General Services Administration. All terms and conditions of this contract that otherwise would be applicable to a mailed order shall apply to the electronic order. (g) The basic content and format of the TPA will be provided by: General Services Administration Office of the Chief Information Officer (QI), 2100 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202 Telephone: (703) 605-9444

Begin Regulation

552.216-73 ORDERING INFORMATION (AUG 2010)
(a) In accordance with the Placement of Orders clause of this solicitation, the offeror elects to receive orders placed by GSA's Federal Acquisition Service (FAS) by either facsimile transmission or computer-to-computer Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). (b) An offeror electing to receive computer-to-computer EDI is requested to indicate below the name, address, and telephone number of the representative to be contacted regarding establishment of an EDI interface. _____________________________________ _____________________________________ _____________________________________ (c) An offeror electing to receive orders by facsimile transmission is requested to indicate below the telephone number(s) for facsimile transmission equipment where orders should be forwarded. _____________________________________ _____________________________________ _____________________________________

Page: 88 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(d) For mailed orders, the offeror is requested to include the postal mailing address(es) where paper form orders should be mailed. _____________________________________ _____________________________________ _____________________________________ (e) Offerors marketing through dealers are requested to indicate below whether those dealers will be participating in the proposed contract. YES NO If "yes" is checked, ordering information to be inserted above shall reflect that in addition to offeror's name, address, and facsimile transmission telephone number, orders can be addressed to the offeror's name, c/o nearest local dealer. In this event, two copies of a list of participating dealers shall accompany this offer, and shall also be included in Contractor's Federal Supply Schedule pricelist.

Begin Regulation

552.238-76 Definition (Federal Supply Schedules)--Recovery Purchasing (FEB 2007)
Ordering activity (also called ``ordering agency'' and ``ordering office'') means an eligible ordering activity (see 552.238-78, Alternate I) authorized to place orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts.

Begin Regulation

552.238-78 SCOPE OF CONTRACT (ELIGIBLE ORDERING ACTIVITIES) (SEP 2008) (ALTERNATE I -- FEB 2007)
(a) This solicitation is issued to establish contracts which may be used on a nonmandatory basis by the agencies and activities named below, as a source of supply for the supplies or services described herein, for domestic delivery. (1) Executive agencies (as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 2.1) including nonappropriated fund activities as prescribed in 41 CFR 101-26.000; (2) Government contractors authorized in writing by a Federal agency pursuant to Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 51.1; (3) Mixed ownership Government corporations (as defined in the Government Corporation Control Act); (4) Federal Agencies, including establishments in the legislative or judicial branch of government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the direction of the Architect of the Capitol); (5) The District of Columbia; (6) Tribal governments when authorized under 25 U.S.C. 450j(k); (7) Qualified Nonprofit Agencies as authorized under 40 U.S.C. 502(b); and (8) Organizations, other than those identified in paragraph (d) of this clause, authorized by GSA pursuant to statute or regulation to use GSA as a source of supply.

Page: 89 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(b) Definitions. Domestic delivery is delivery within the 48 contiguous states, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Washington, DC, and U.S. territories. Domestic delivery also includes a port or consolidation point, within the aforementioned areas, for orders received from overseas activities. Overseas delivery is delivery to points outside of the 48 contiguous states, Washington, DC, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories. (c) Offerors are requested to check one of the following boxes: ______ Contractor will provide domestic and overseas delivery. ______ Contractor will provide overseas delivery only. ______ Contractor will provide domestic delivery only. (d) The following activities may place orders against Federal Supply Schedules for products and services determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security to facilitate recovery from major disasters, terrorism, or nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack, on an optional basis; PROVIDED, the Contractor accepts order(s) from such activities: State and local government entities, includes any state, local, regional or tribal government or any instrumentality thereof (including any local educational agency or institution of higher learning). State and local government entities, means the states of the United States, counties, municipalities, cities, towns, townships, tribal governments, public authorities (including public or Indian housing agencies under the United States Housing Act of 1937), school districts, colleges and other institutions of higher education, council of governments (incorporated or not), regional or interstate government entities, or any agency or instrumentality of the preceding entities (including any local educational agency or institution of higher education), and including legislative and judicial departments. The term does not include contractors of, or grantees of, State or local governments. (1) Local educational agency has the meaning given that term in section 8013 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713). (2) Institution of higher education has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)). (3) Tribal government means-- (i) The governing body of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community located in the continental United States (excluding the State of Alaska) that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and (ii) Any Alaska Native regional or village corporation established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.). (e) Articles or services may be ordered from time to time in such quantities as may be needed to fill any requirement, subject to the Order Limitations thresholds which will be specified in resultant contracts. Overseas activities may place orders directly with schedule contractors for delivery to CONUS port or consolidation point. (f) (1) The Contractor is obligated to accept orders received from activities within the Executive branch of the Federal Government. (2) The Contractor is not obligated to accept orders received from activities outside the Executive branch; however, the Contractor is encouraged to accept such orders. If the Contractor elects to accept such orders, all provisions of the contract shall apply, including clause 552.232-79,

Page: 90 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Payment by Credit Card. If the Contractor is unwilling to accept such orders, and the proposed method of payment is not through the Credit Card, the Contractor shall return the order by mail or other means of delivery within 5 workdays from receipt. If the Contractor is unwilling to accept such orders, and the proposed method of payment is through the Credit Card, the Contractor must so advise the ordering activity within 24 hours of receipt of order. (Reference clause 552.232-79, Payment by Credit Card.) Failure to return an order or advise the ordering activity within the time frames of this paragraph shall constitute acceptance whereupon all provisions of the contract shall apply. (g) The Government is obligated to purchase under each resultant contract a guaranteed minimum of $2,500 (two thousand, five hundred dollars) during the contract term.

Begin Regulation

552.238-80 Use of Federal Supply Schedule Contracts by Certain Entities--Recovery Purchasing (FEB 2007)
(a) If an entity identified in paragraph (d) of the clause at 552.238-78, Scope of Contract (Eligible Ordering Activities)-- Alternate I, elects to place an order under this contract, the entity agrees that the order shall be subject to the following conditions: (1) When the Contractor accepts an order from such an entity, a separate contract is formed which incorporates by reference all the terms and conditions of the Schedule contract except the Disputes clause, the patent indemnity clause, and the portion of the Commercial Item Contract Terms and Conditions that specifies ``Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts'' (which applies only to contracts with entities of the Executive branch of the U.S. Government). The parties to this new contract which incorporates the terms and conditions of the Schedule contract are the individual ordering activity and the Contractor. The U.S. Government shall not be liable for the performance or nonperformance of the new contract. Disputes which cannot be resolved by the parties to the new contract may be litigated in any State or Federal court with jurisdiction over the parties, applying Federal procurement law, including statutes, regulations and case law, and, if pertinent, the Uniform Commercial Code. To the extent authorized by law, parties to this new contract are encouraged to resolve disputes through Alternative Dispute Resolution. Likewise, a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA), although not a contract, is an agreement that may be entered into by the Contractor with such an entity and the Federal Government is not a party. (2) Where contract clauses refer to action by a Contracting Officer or a Contracting Officer of GSA, that shall mean the individual responsible for placing the order for the ordering activity (e.g., Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.212-4 at paragraph (f) and FSS clause I-FSS-249 B). (3) As a condition of using this contract, eligible ordering activities agree to abide by all terms and conditions of the Schedule contract, except for those deleted clauses or portions of clauses mentioned in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause. Ordering activities may include terms and conditions required by statute, ordinance, regulation, order, or as otherwise allowed by State and local government entities as a part of a statement of work (SOW) or statement of objective (SOO) to the extent that these terms and conditions do not conflict with the terms and conditions of the Schedule contract. The ordering activity and the Contractor expressly acknowledge that, in entering into an agreement for the ordering activity to purchase goods or services from the Contractor, neither the ordering activity nor the Contractor will look to, primarily or in any secondary capacity, or file any claim against the United States or any of its agencies with respect to any failure of performance by the other party. (4) The ordering activity is responsible for all payments due the Contractor under the contract formed by acceptance of the ordering activity's order, without recourse to the agency of the U.S. Government, which awarded the Schedule contract.

Page: 91 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(5) The Contractor is encouraged, but not obligated, to accept orders from such entities. The Contractor may, within 5 days of receipt of the order, decline to accept any order, for any reason. The Contractor shall fulfill orders placed by such entities, which are not declined within the 5-day period. (6) The supplies or services purchased will be used for governmental purposes only and will not be resold for personal use. Disposal of property acquired will be in accordance with the established procedures of the ordering activity for the disposal of personal property. (7) The state or local government ordering activity will be responsible for purchasing products or services to be used to facilitate recovery from a major disaster declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or to facilitate recovery from terrorism or nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack. (b) If the Schedule Contractor accepts an order from an entity identified in paragraph (d) of the clause at 552.238-78, Scope of Contract (Eligible Ordering Activities)--Alternate I, the Contractor agrees to the following conditions-(1) The ordering activity is responsible for all payments due the Contractor for the contract formed by acceptance of the order, without recourse to the agency of the U.S. Government, which awarded the Schedule contract. (2) The Contractor is encouraged, but not obligated, to accept orders from such entities. The Contractor may, within 5 days of receipt of the order, decline to accept any order, for any reason. The Contractor shall decline the order using the same means as those used to place the order. The Contractor shall fulfill orders placed by such entities, which are not declined within the 5-day period. (c) In accordance with clause 552.238-74, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting, the Contractor must report the quarterly dollar value of all sales under this contract. When submitting sales reports, the Contractor must report two dollar values for each Special Item Number-(1) The dollar value for sales to entities identified in paragraph (a) of the clause at 552.238-78, Scope of Contract (Eligible Ordering Activities)--Alternate I; and (2) The dollar value for sales to entities identified in paragraph (d) of clause 552.238-78, Alternate I. (d) A listing of the Federal Supply Schedule contracts for the products and services available for disaster recovery purchasing is accessible in GSA's Schedules e-Library at Web site http://www.gsaelibrary.gsa.gov. Click on the link, ``Disaster Recovery Purchasing, State and Local.'' The participating Contractors and the products and services available for disaster recovery purchasing will be labeled with the Disaster Recovery Purchasing icon.

Begin Regulation

C-FSS-370 CONTRACTOR TASKS / SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS (NOV 2003)
(a) Security Clearances: The Contractor may be required to obtain/possess varying levels of security clearances in the performance of orders issued under this contract. All costs associated with obtaining/possessing such security clearances should be factored into the price offered under the Multiple Award Schedule. (b) Travel: The Contractor may be required to travel in performance of orders issued under this contract. Allowable travel and per diem charges are governed by Pub .L. 99-234 and FAR Part 31, and are reimbursable by the ordering agency or can be priced as a fixed price item on orders placed under

Page: 92 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

the Multiple Award Schedule. Travel in performance of a task order will only be reimbursable to the extent authorized by the ordering agency. The Industrial Funding Fee does NOT apply to travel and per diem charges. (c) Certifications, Licenses and Accreditations: As a commercial practice, the Contractor may be required to obtain/possess any variety of certifications, licenses and accreditations for specific FSC/service code classifications offered. All costs associated with obtaining/ possessing such certifications, licenses and accreditations should be factored into the price offered under the Multiple Award Schedule program. (d) Insurance: As a commercial practice, the Contractor may be required to obtain/possess insurance coverage for specific FSC/service code classifications offered. All costs associated with obtaining/possessing such insurance should be factored into the price offered under the Multiple Award Schedule program. (e) Personnel: The Contractor may be required to provide key personnel, resumes or skill category descriptions in the performance of orders issued under this contract. Ordering activities may require agency approval of additions or replacements to key personnel. (f) Organizational Conflicts of Interest: Where there may be an organizational conflict of interest as determined by the ordering agency, the Contractor's participation in such order may be restricted in accordance with FAR Part 9.5. (g) Documentation/Standards: The Contractor may be requested to provide products or services in accordance with rules, regulations, OMB orders, standards and documentation as specified by the agency's order. (h) Data/Deliverable Requirements: Any required data/deliverables at the ordering level will be as specified or negotiated in the agency's order. (i) Government-Furnished Property: As specified by the agency's order, the Government may provide property, equipment, materials or resources as necessary. (j) Availability of Funds: Many Government agencies' operating funds are appropriated for a specific fiscal year. Funds may not be presently available for any orders placed under the contract or any option year. The Government's obligation on orders placed under this contract is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment for ordering purposes can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may arise until funds are available to the ordering Contracting Officer. (k) Overtime: For professional services, the labor rates in the Schedule should not vary by virtue of the Contractor having worked overtime. For services applicable to the Service Contract Act (as identified in the Schedule), the labor rates in the Schedule will vary as governed by labor laws (usually assessed a time and a half of the labor rate).

Begin Regulation

C-FSS-411 FIRE OR CASUALTY HAZARDS, OR SAFETY OR HEALTH REQUIREMENTS (OCT 1992)
(a) Items in this solicitation which involve fire or casualty hazards (e.g., items containing electrical components), or safety or health requirements, shall conform to the safety standards (if any) for such products issued by a nationally recognized standards developing organization. The offeror shall identify in the spaces below whether any such standards are applicable to the products offered, and if so, which standard(s) applies. (Check one). _______ 1. There are no nationally recognized safety standards which are

Page: 93 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

applicable to any of the products offered under this solicitation. _______ 2. The safety standard(s) identified below are applicable to the following products offered under this solicitation: Product Standard

There are no nationally recognized safety standards which are applicable to the other products offered (if any). (b) The offeror must furnish proof, satisfactory to the Government, that the products offered will conform with the requirements of the published safety standards. Acceptable proof of conformance includes a labeling, listing, or acceptance of the product by an organization approved by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) as a "Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory" (NRTL). This conformance requirement must be maintained with respect to all applicable products furnished under resultant contracts. (c) Information regarding currently-approved NRTL's may be obtained by writing to the following: NRTL Recognition Program Office of Variance Determination Occupational Safety and Health Administration U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Room N-3653 Washington, DC 20210 (202) 219-7193

Begin Regulation

C-FSS-425 WORKMANSHIP (OCT 1988)
Any item contracted for must be new, current model at the time of offer, unless otherwise specified. Each article must perform the functions for its intended use.

Begin Regulation

C-FSS-427 ANSI STANDARDS (JUL 1991)
ANSI Standards cited in this solicitation may be obtained from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 11 West 42nd Street, 13th Floor, New York, NY 10036 (Tel: (212) 642-4900).

Begin Regulation

CI-FSS-056 FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) PART 51 DEVIATION AUTHORITY (FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES) (JAN 2010)

Page: 94 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(a) General Background. On October 8, 2009, a class deviation to FAR Part 51 was granted by GSA's Senior Procurement Executive in accordance with FAR Subpart 1.404, Class deviations. The deviation permits federal contracting officers to authorize GSA contractors, who are performing an order on a time-and-material or labor-hour basis, to purchase supplies and services from schedule contractors or to process requisitions through the Global Supply Program. (b) Orders. Orders placed using the FAR Part 51 deviation shall be: (1) Placed on a time-and-materials (T&M)/labor-hour (LH) basis--an order placed by the Federal Government to the buying contractor can be partially fixed price, but the portion of the order for the items to be procured using the FAR Part 51 deviation shall be T&M/LH; (2) For ancillary supplies/services that are in support of the overall order such that the items are not the primary purpose of the work ordered, but are an integral part of the total solution offered; (3) Issued in accordance with the procedures in FAR 8.405-1, Ordering Procedures for supplies, and services not requiring a statement of work; (4) Placed by the Federal Government. The authorization is NOT available to state and local governments. (c) For comprehensive guidance on the proper use the FAR Part 51 authority granted by the deviation, please refer to the Ordering Guide at www.gsa.gov/far51deviation.

Begin Regulation

D-FSS-440 PRESERVATION, PACKAGING, PACKING, AND MARKING AND LABELING OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT) FOR SURFACE SHIPMENT (MAY 1997)
(a) Preservation, packaging, packing, and marking and labeling of domestic and overseas HAZMAT SURFACE SHIPMENTS shall comply with all requirements of the following: (1) International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code established by the International Maritime Organization; (2) U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Hazardous Material Regulation (HMR) 49 CFR Parts 171 through 180. (Note: Classifications permitted by the HMR, but not permitted by the IMDG code, such as "Combustible" and "ORM," shall not be used); (3) Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Regulation 29 CFR Part 1910.1200; and (4) Any preservation, packaging, packing, and marking and labeling requirements contained elsewhere in this solicitation. (b) The test reports showing compliance with packaging requirements shall be made available to GSA contract administration/management representatives upon request.

Begin Regulation

Page: 95 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

D-FSS-456 PACKAGING AND PACKING (APR 1984)
(a) Packaging. Shall be in accordance with accepted commercial practice. (b) Packing. Shall be packed to ensure carrier acceptance and safe delivery to the destination in containers complying with rules and regulations applicable to the mode of transportation.

Begin Regulation

E-FSS-521-D INSPECTION (MAY 2000)
Inspection of all purchases under this contract will be made at destination by an authorized Government representative.

Begin Regulation

E-FSS-522 INSPECTION AT DESTINATION (MAR 1996)
(a) Inspection by the Government. It is anticipated that the supplies purchased under this contract will be inspected at destination by the Government to ensure conformance with technical requirements as specified herein. (b) Responsibility for Rejected Supplies. If, after due notice of rejection, the Contractor fails to remove or provide instructions for the removal of rejected supplies pursuant to the Contracting Officer's instructions, the Contractor shall be liable for all costs incurred by the Government in taking such measures as are expedient to avoid unnecessary loss to the Contractor. In addition to any other remedies which may be available under this contract, the supplies may be stored for the Contractor's account or sold to the highest bidder on the open market and the proceeds applied against the accumulated storage and other costs, including the cost of the sale. (c) Additional Costs for Inspection and Testing. When prior rejection makes reinspection or retesting necessary, the following charges are applicable. When inspection or testing is performed by or under the direction of GSA, charges will be at the rate of $22.00 per man-hour or fraction thereof if the inspection is at a GSA distribution center; $26.00 per man-hour or fraction thereof, plus travel costs incurred, if the inspection is at another location; and $26.00 per man-hour or fraction thereof for laboratory testing, except that when a testing facility other than a GSA laboratory performs all or part of the required tests, the Contractor shall be assessed the actual cost incurred by the Government as a result of testing at such facility. When inspection is performed by or under the direction of any agency other than GSA, the charges indicated above may be used, or the agency may assess the actual cost of performing the inspection and testing.

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-202-F DELIVERY PRICES (APR 1984)
Prices offered must cover delivery to destinations as provided below: (a) Direct delivery to consignee. F.o.b. inland point, country of importation (FAR 52.247-39). (Offeror to indicate countries where direct delivery will be provided.) (b) Delivery to overseas assembly point for transshipment when specified by the ordering office, if delivery is not covered under paragraph (a), above. (c) Delivery to the overseas port of entry when delivery is not covered under paragraphs (a) or (b),

Page: 96 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

above. Offerors are requested to furnish below the geographic area(s)/countries/zones which are intended to be covered. GEOGRAPHIC AREA(S)/COUNTRIES/ZONES

Note: Regulation F-FSS-202-F Applies to contracts for INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY Due to the variety of products addressed by this schedule, both FOB Destination and FOB Origin clauses are included. When proposing, vendors should address those clauses which best match their commercial practices.

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-202-G DELIVERY PRICES (JAN 1994)
(a) Prices offered must cover delivery as provided below to destinations located within the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia. (1) Delivery to the door of the specified Government activity by freight or express common carriers on articles for which store-door delivery is provided, free or subject to a charge, pursuant to regularly published tariffs duly filed with the Federal and/or State regulatory bodies governing such carrier; or, at the option of the Contractor, by parcel post on mailable articles, or by the Contractor's vehicle. Where store-door delivery is subject to a charge, the Contractor shall (a) place the notation "Delivery Service Requested" on bills of lading covering such shipments, and (b) pay such charge and add the actual cost thereof as a separate item to his invoice. (2) Delivery to siding at destinations when specified by the ordering office, if delivery is not covered under paragraph (a)(1), above. (3) Delivery to the freight station nearest destination when delivery is not covered under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2), above. (b) The offeror is requested to indicate below whether or not prices submitted cover delivery f.o.b. destination in Alaska, Hawaii, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

Yes

No

Alaska

Page: 97 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Hawaii

Puerto Rico

(c) When deliveries are made to destinations outside the contiguous 48 States; i.e., Alaska, Hawaii, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and are not covered by paragraph (b), above, the following conditions will apply: (1) Delivery will be f.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation (FAR 52.247-38), with the transportation charges to be paid by the Government from point of exportation to destination in Alaska, Hawaii, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as designated by the ordering office. The Contractor shall add the actual cost of transportation to destination from the point of exportation in the 48 contiguous States nearest to the designated destination. Such costs will, in all cases, be based upon the lowest regularly established rates on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission, the U.S. Maritime Commission (if shipped by water), or any State regulatory body, or those published by the U.S. Postal Service; and must be supported by paid freight or express receipt or by a statement of parcel post charges including weight of shipment. (2) The right is reserved to ordering agencies to furnish Government bills of lading. (d) Ordering offices will be required to pay differential between freight charges and express charges where express deliveries are desired by the Government.

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-230 DELIVERIES TO THE U.S. POSTAL SERVICE (JAN 1994)
(a) Applicability. This clause applies to orders placed for the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) and accepted by the Contractor for the delivery of supplies to a USPS facility (consignee). (b) Mode/Method of Transportation. Unless the Contracting Officer grants a waiver of this requirement, any shipment that meets the USPS requirements for mailability (i.e., 70 pounds or less, combined length and girth not more than 108 inches, etc.) delivery shall be accomplished via the use of the USPS. Other commercial services shall not be used, but this does not preclude the Contractor from making delivery by the use of the Contractor's own vehicles. (c) Time of Delivery. Notwithstanding the required time for delivery to destination as may be specified elsewhere in this contract, if shipments under this clause are mailed not later than five (5) calendar days before the required delivery date, delivery shall be deemed to have been made timely.

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-244-B ADDITIONAL SERVICE CHARGE FOR DELIVERY WITHIN CONSIGNEE'S PREMISES (MAY 2000)
(a) Offerors are requested to insert, in the spaces provided below or by attachment hereto, a separate charge for "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises" applicable to each shipping container to be shipped. (Articles which are comparable in size and weight, and for which the same charge is applicable, should be grouped under an appropriate item description.) These additional charges will be accepted as part of

Page: 98 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

the award, if considered reasonable, and shall be included in the Contractor's published catalog and/or pricelist. (b) Ordering activities are not obligated to issue orders on the basis of "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises," and Contractors may refuse delivery on that basis provided such refusal is communicated in writing to the ordering activity issuing such orders within 5 days of the receipt of such order by the Contractor and provided further, that delivery is made in accordance with the other delivery requirements of the contract. Failure of the Contractor to submit this notification within the time specified shall constitute acceptance to furnish "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises" at the additional charge awarded. When an ordering activity issues an order on the basis of "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises" at the accepted additional charge awarded and the Contractor accepts such orders on that basis, the Contractor will be obligated to provide delivery "F.o.b. Destination, Within Consignee's Premises" in accordance with FAR 52.247-35, which is then incorporated by reference, with the exception that an additional charge as provided herein is allowed for such services. Unless otherwise stipulated by the offeror, the additional charges awarded hereunder may be applied to any delivery within the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia. (c) When exercising their option to issue orders on the basis of delivery service as provided herein, ordering activities will specify "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises" on the order, and will indicate the exact location to which delivery is to be made. The Contractor's delivery price and the additional charge(s) for "Delivery Within Consignee's Premises" will be shown as separate entries on the order. ITEMS (NSN's or Special Item Numbers or Descriptive Name of Articles) ADDITIONAL CHARGE (Per shipping container) FOR "DELIVERY WITHIN CONSIGNEE'S PREMISES"

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-736-A EXPORT TRAFFIC RELEASE (OCT 1988)
Supplies ordered by GSA for export will not be shipped by the Contractor until shipping instructions are received from GSA. To obtain shipping instructions, the Contractor shall forward completed copies of GSA Form 1611, Application for Shipping Instructions and Notice of Availability, to the GSA office designated on the purchase order at least 15 days prior to the anticipated shipping date. Copies of GSA Form 1611 will be furnished to the Contractor with the purchase order. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in nonacceptance of the material by authorities at the port of exportation. When supplies for export are ordered by other Government agencies the Contractor should obtain shipping instructions from the ordering agency.

Begin Regulation

F-FSS-772 CARLOAD SHIPMENTS (APR 1984)
When shipment is to be made by rail, to one destination, of a carload quantity which includes an item or items the overall length of which when packed and/or palletized, is 60 inches or over, the Contractor shall, when ordering cars, specify that, if available, double-door rail cars be furnished. This provision is intended solely to facilitate unloading by forklift truck at destination. Under no circumstances should scheduled shipment be delayed due to nonavailability of double-door cars.

Page: 99 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Begin Regulation

G-FSS-900-C CONTACT FOR CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION (JUL 2003)
Offerors should complete paragraphs (a) and (b) if providing both domestic and overseas delivery. Complete paragraph (a) if providing domestic delivery only. Complete paragraph (b) if providing overseas delivery only. The Contractor shall designate a person to serve as the contract administrator for the contract both domestically and overseas. The contract administrator is responsible for overall compliance with contract terms and conditions. The contract administrator is also the responsible official for issues concerning 552.238-74, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting (JUL 2003), including reviews of contractor records. The Contractor's designation of representatives to handle certain functions under this contract does not relieve the contract administrator of responsibility for contract compliance. Any changes to the designated individual must be provided to the Contracting Officer in writing, with the proposed effective date of the change (a) Domestic: NAME ______________________________________________________________________ TITLE ______________________________________________________________________ ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________________ ZIP CODE ___________________________________________________________________ TELEPHONE NO. (_______) __________________ FAX NO. ________________________ E-MAIL ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________ (b) Overseas: Overseas contact points are mandatory for local assistance with the resolution of any delivery, performance, or quality complaint from customer agencies. (Also, see the requirement in I-FSS-594, Parts and Service.) At a minimum, a contact point must be furnished for each area in which deliveries are contemplated, e.g., Europe, South America, Far East, etc. NAME ______________________________________________________________________ TITLE ______________________________________________________________________ ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________________ ZIP CODE ___________________________________________________________________ TELEPHONE NO. (_______) __________________ FAX NO. ________________________ E-MAIL ADDRESS ___________________________________________________________

Begin Regulation

G-FSS-906 VENDOR MANAGED INVENTORY (VMI) PROGRAM (MAS) (JAN 1999)
(a) The term "Vendor Managed Inventory" describes a system in which the Contractor monitors and

Page: 100 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

maintains specified inventory levels for selected items at designated stocking points. VMI enables the Contractor to plan production and shipping more efficiently. Stocking points benefit from reduced inventory but steady stock levels. (b) Contractors that commercially provide a VMI-type system may enter into similar partnerships with customers under a Blanket Purchase Agreement.

Begin Regulation

G-FSS-907 ORDER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT (APR 1984)
Contractors shall acknowledge only those orders which state "Order Acknowledgement Required." These orders shall be acknowledged within 10 days after receipt. Such acknowledgement shall be sent to the activity placing the order and contain information pertinent to the order, including the anticipated delivery date.

Begin Regulation

G-FSS-910 DELIVERIES BEYOND THE CONTRACTUAL PERIOD--PLACING OF ORDERS (OCT 1988)
In accordance with the Scope of Contract clause, this contract covers all requirements that may be ordered, as distinguished from delivered during the contract term. This is for the purpose of providing continuity of supply by permitting ordering activities to place orders as requirements arise in the normal course of supply operations. Accordingly, any order mailed (or received, if forwarded by other means than through the mail) to the Contractor on or before the expiration date of the contract, and providing for delivery within the number of days specified in the contract, shall constitute a valid order.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-103 SCOPE OF CONTRACT--WORLDWIDE (JUL 2002)
(a) This solicitation is issued to establish contracts which may be used as sources of supplies or services described herein for domestic and/or overseas delivery. (b) Definitions-- Domestic delivery is delivery within the 48 contiguous states, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Washington, DC, and U.S. territories. Domestic delivery also includes a port or consolidation point, within the aforementioned areas, for orders received from overseas activities. Overseas delivery is delivery to points outside of the 48 contiguous states, Washington, DC, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories. (c) Offerors are requested to check one of the following boxes: ____ Contractor will provide domestic and overseas delivery. (Refer to clause I-FSS-108, Clauses for Overseas Coverage.) ____ Contractor will provide overseas delivery only. (Refer to clause I-FSS-108, Clauses for Overseas Coverage.) ____ Contractor will provide domestic delivery only. (d) Resultant contracts may be used on a nonmandatory basis by the following activities: Executive

Page: 101 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

agencies; other Federal agencies, mixed-ownership Government corporations, and the District of Columbia; Government contractors authorized in writing by a Federal agency pursuant to 48 CFR 51.1; and other activities and organizations authorized by statute or regulation to use GSA as a source of supply. U.S. territories are domestic delivery points for purposes of this contract. (Questions regarding activities authorized to use this schedule should be directed to the Contracting Officer.) (e) (1) The Contractor is obligated to accept orders received from activities within the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. (2) The Contractor is not obligated to accept orders received from activities outside the Executive Branch of the Federal Government; however, the Contractor is encouraged to accept orders from such Federal activities. If the Contractor elects to accept such an order, all provisions of the contract shall apply, including clause 552.232-77, Payment by Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card (Alternate I). If the Contractor is unwilling to accept such an order, and the proposed method of payment is not through the Purchase Card, the Contractor shall return the order by mail or other means of delivery within 5 workdays from receipt. If the Contractor is unwilling to accept such an order, and the proposed method of payment is through the Purchase Card, the Contractor must so advise the ordering agency within 24 hours of receipt of order. (Reference clause 552.232-77, Payment by Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card (Alternate I)). Failure to return an order or advise the ordering agency within the time frames above shall constitute acceptance whereupon all provisions of the contract shall apply. (f) The Government is obligated to purchase under each resultant contract a guaranteed minimum as specified in the clause I-FSSญ106, Guaranteed Minimum, contained elsewhere in this contract.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-106 GUARANTEED MINIMUM (JUL 2003)
The minimum that the Government agrees to order during the period of this contract is $2,500. If the Contractor receives total orders for less than $2,500 during the term of the contract, the Government will pay the difference between the amount ordered and $2,500. (a) Payment of any amount due under this clause shall be contingent upon the Contractor's timely submission of GSA Form 72A reports (see GSAR 552.238-74 "Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting") during the period of the contract and receipt of the close-out sales report pursuant to GSAR 552.238-74. (b) The guaranteed minimum applies only if the contract expires or contract cancellation is initiated by the Government. The guaranteed minimum does not apply if the contract is terminated for cause or if the contract is canceled at the request of the Contractor.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-108 CLAUSES FOR OVERSEAS COVERAGE (MAY 2000)
The following clauses apply to overseas coverage. 52.214-34 Submission of Offers in the English Language 52.214-35 Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency 52.247-34 FOB Destination 52.247-38 FOB Inland Carrier, Country of Exportation 52.247-39 FOB Inland Point, Country of Importation C-FSS-412 Characteristics of Electric Current D-FSS-471 Marking and Documentation Requirements Per Shipment D-FSS-477 Transshipments

Page: 102 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

F-FSS-202-F Delivery Prices I-FSS-314 Foreign Taxes and Duties I-FSS-594 Parts and Service

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-109 ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND U.S. DOLLAR REQUIREMENTS (MAR 1998)
(a) All documents produced by the Contractor to fulfill requirements of this contract including, but not limited to, Federal Supply Schedule catalogs and pricelists, must reflect all terms and conditions in the English language. (b) U.S. dollar equivalency, if applicable, will be based on the rates published in the "Treasury Reporting Rates of Exchange" in effect as of the date of the agency's purchase order or in effect during the time period specified elsewhere in this contract.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-140-B URGENT REQUIREMENTS (JAN 1994)
When the Federal Supply Schedule contract delivery period does not meet the bona fide urgent delivery requirements of an ordering agency, agencies are encouraged, if time permits, to contact the Contractor for the purpose of obtaining accelerated delivery. The Contractor shall reply to the inquiry within 3 workdays after receipt. (Telephonic replies shall be confirmed by the Contractor in writing.) If the Contractor offers an accelerated delivery time acceptable to the ordering agency, any order(s) placed pursuant to the agreed upon accelerated delivery time frame shall be delivered within this shorter delivery time and in accordance with all other terms and conditions of the contract.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-163 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (EVERGREEN) (APR 2000)
(a) The Government may require continued performance of this contract for an additional 5 year period when it is determined that exercising the option is advantageous to the Government considering price and other factors.. The option clause may not be exercised more than three times. When the option to extend the term of this contract is exercised the following conditions are applicable: (1) It is determined that exercising the option is advantageous to the Government considering price and the other factors covered in (2 through 4 below). (2) The Contractor's electronic catalog/pricelist has been received, approved, posted, and kept current on GSA Advantage!ฎ in accordance with clause I-FSS-600, Contract Price Lists. (3) Performance has been acceptable under the contract. (4) Subcontracting goals have been reviewed and approved. (b) The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by providing a written notice to the Contractor within 30 days, unless otherwise noted, prior to the expiration of the contract or option. (c) When the Government exercises its option to extend the term of this contract, prices in effect at the time the option is exercised will remain in effect during the option period, unless an adjustment is made

Page: 103 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

in accordance with another contract clause (e.g., Economic Price Adjustment Clause or Price Reduction Clause).

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-40 CONTRACTOR TEAM ARRANGEMENTS (JUL 2003)
Contractors participating in contractor team arrangements must abide by all terms and conditions of their respective contracts. This includes compliance with contract clause 552.238-74, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting, i.e., each contractor (team member) must report sales and remit the IFF for all products and services provided under its individual contract.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-50 PERFORMANCE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (FEB 1995)
(a) This clause applies to all contracts estimated to exceed $100,000. (b) Unless notified otherwise in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor may assume contract performance is satisfactory. (c) If negative performance information is submitted by customer agencies, the Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor in writing and provide copies of any complaints received. The Contractor will have 30 calendar days from receipt of this notification to submit a rebuttal and/or a report of corrective actions taken.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-546 GUARANTEE (APR 1984)
The Contractor guarantees the equipment furnished will be free from defects in material and workmanship for a period of not less than 1 year from date of delivery. All parts found defective within that period shall be replaced, with the cost of replacement, including shipping charges, to be borne by the Contractor. Under no circumstances will any equipment covered by this guarantee be returned without (a) advance written notice to the Contractor, or (b) obtaining shipping instructions from the Contractor.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-597 GSA ADVANTAGE!ฎ (SEP 2000)
(a) The Contractor must participate in the GSA Advantage!ฎ online shopping service. Information and instructions regarding contractor participation are contained in clause I-FSS-599, Electronic Commerce. (b) The Contractor also should refer to contract clauses 552.238-71, Submission and Distribution of Authorized GSA Schedule Pricelists (which provides for submission of pricelists on a common-use electronic medium), I-FSS-600, Contract Pricelists (which provides information on electronic contract data), and 552.243-72, Modifications (which addresses electronic file updates).

Begin Regulation

Page: 104 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

I-FSS-599 ELECTRONIC COMMERCE--FACNET (SEP 2006)
(a) General Background. The Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (FASA) of 1994 establishes the Federal Acquisition Computer Network (FACNET) requiring the Government to evolve its acquisition process from one driven by paperwork into an expedited process based on electronic commerce/electronic data interchange (EC/EDI). EC/EDI means more than merely automating manual processes and eliminating paper transactions. It can and will help to move business processes (e.g., procurement, finance, logistics, etc.) into a fully electronic environment and fundamentally change the way organizations operate. (b) Trading Partners and Value-Added Networks (VAN's). Within the FACNET architecture, electronic documents (e.g., orders, invoices, etc.) are carried between the Federal Government's procuring office and contractors (now known as "trading partners"). These transactions are carried by commercial telecommunications companies called Value-Added Networks (VAN's). EDI can be done using commercially available hardware, software, and telecommunications. The selection of a VAN is a business decision contractors must make. There are many different VAN's which provide a variety of electronic services and different pricing strategies. If your VAN only provides communications services, you may also need a software translation package. (c) Registration Instructions. DOD will require Contractors to register as trading partners to do business with the Government. This policy can be reviewed via the INTERNET at http://www.defenselink.mil/releases/1999/b03011999_bt079-99.html. To do EDI with the Government, Contractors must register as a trading partner. Contractors will provide regular business information, banking information, and EDI capabilities to all agencies in this single registration. A central repository of all trading partners, called the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) http://www.ccr.gov/, has been developed. All Government procuring offices and other interested parties will have access to this central repository. The database is structured to identify the types of data elements which are public information and those which are confidential and not releasable. To register, contractors must provide their Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number. The DUNS number is available by calling 1(800)333-0505. It is provided and maintained free of charge and only takes a few minutes to obtain. Contractors will need to provide their Tax Identification Number (TIN). The TIN is assigned by the Internal Revenue Service by calling 1(800)829-1040. Contractors will also be required to provide information about company bank or financial institution for electronic funds transfer (EFT). Contractors may register through on-line at http://www.ccr.gov/ or through their Value Added Network (VAN) using an American National Standards Institute (ANSI) ASC X12 838 transaction set, called a "Trading Partner Profile." A transaction set is a standard format for moving electronic data. VAN's will be able to assist contractors with registration. (d) Implementation Conventions. All EDI transactions must comply with the Federal Implementation Conventions (IC's). Many VAN's and software providers have already built the IC requirements into their products. If you need to see the IC's, they are available on a registry maintained by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). It is accessible via the INTERNET at http://www.itl.nist.gov/lab/csl-pubs.htm. IC's are available for common business documents such as Purchase Order, Price Sales Catalog, Invoice, Request for Quotes, etc.

Page: 105 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(e) Additional Information. GSA has additional information available for vendors who are interested in starting to use EC/EDI. Contact the Contracting Officer for a copy of the latest handbook. Several resources are available to vendors to assist in implementing EC/EDI; specific addresses are available in the handbook or from the Contracting Officer: (1) Electronic Commerce Resource Centers (ECRC's) are a network of U.S. Government-sponsored centers that provide EC/EDI training and support to the contractor community. They are found in over a dozen locations around the country. (2) Procurement Technical Assistance Centers (PTAC's) and Small Business Development Centers (SBDC's) provide management assistance to small business owners. Each state has several locations. (3) Most major US cities have an EDI user group of companies who meet periodically to share information on EDI-related subjects. (f) GSA Advantage! ฎ (1) GSA Advantage! ฎ will use this FACNET system to receive catalogs, invoices and text messages; and to send purchase orders, application advice, and functional acknowledgments. GSA Advantage! ฎ enables customers to: (i) Perform database searches across all contracts by manufacturer; manufacturer's model/part number; vendor; and generic product categories. (ii) Generate their own EDI delivery orders to contractors, generate EDI delivery orders from the Federal Supply Service to contractors, or download files to create their own delivery orders. (iii) Use the Federal IMPAC VISA. (2) GSA Advantage!ฎ may be accessed via the GSA Home Page. The INTERNET address is: http://www.gsa.gov, or http://www.fss.gsa.gov.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-60 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES (APR 2000)
(a) Performance incentives may be agreed upon between the contractor and the ordering office on individual orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements under this contract in accordance with this clause. (b) The ordering office must establish a maximum performance incentive price for these services and/or total solutions, on individual orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements. (c) Incentives should be designed to relate results achieved by the contractor to specified targets. To the maximum extent practicable, ordering offices shall consider establishing incentives where performance is critical to the agency's mission and incentives are likely to motivate the contractor. Incentives shall be based on objectively measurable tasks.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-600 CONTRACT PRICE LISTS (JUL 2004)

Page: 106 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

(a) Electronic Contract Data. (1) At the time of award, the Contractor will be provided instructions for submitting electronic contract data in a prescribed electronic format as required by clause 552.238-71, Submission and Distribution of Authorized FSS Schedule Price Lists. (2) The Contractor will have a choice to transmit its file submissions electronically through Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) in accordance with the Federal Implementation Convention (IC) or use the application made available at the time of award. The Contractor's electronic files must be complete; correct; readable; virus-free; and contain only those supplies and services, prices, and terms and conditions that were accepted by the Government. They will be added to GSA's electronic ordering system known as GSA Advantage!ฎ a menu-driven database system that provides on-line access to contract ordering information, terms and conditions, up-to-date pricing, and the option to create an electronic order. The Contractor's electronic files must be received no later than 6 months after award. Contractors should refer to clause I-FSS-597, GSA Advantage! ฎ for further information. (3) Further details on EDI, ICs, and GSA Advantage! ฎ can be found in clause I-FSS-599, Electronic Commerce. (4) The Contractor is encouraged to place the GSA identifier (logo) on their web site for those supplies or services covered by this contract. The logo can link to the contractor's Federal Supply Schedule price list. The identifier URL is located at http://www.gsa.gov/logos. All resultant "web price lists" shown on the contractor's web site must be in accordance with section (b)(3)(ii) of this clause and nothing other than what was accepted /awarded by the Government may be included. If the contractor elects to use contract identifiers on its website (either logos or contact number) the website must clearly distinguish between those items awarded on the contract and any other items offered by the contractor on an open market basis. (5) The contractor is responsible for keeping all electronic catalog data up to date; e.g., prices, product deletions and replacements, etc. (b) Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists. (1) The Contractor must also prepare, print, and distribute a paper Federal Supply Schedule Price List as required by clause 552.238-71, Submission and Distribution of Authorized FSS Schedule Price Lists. This must be done as set forth in this paragraph (b). (2) The Contractor must prepare a Federal Supply Schedule Price List by either: (i) Using the commercial catalog, price list, schedule, or other document as accepted by the Government, showing accepted discounts, and obliterating all items, terms, and conditions not accepted by the Government by lining out those items or by a stamp across the face of the item stating "NOT UNDER CONTRACT" or "EXCLUDED"; or (ii) Composing a price list in which only those items, terms, and conditions accepted by the Government are included, and which contain only net prices, based upon the commercial price list less discounts accepted by the Government. In this instance, the Contractor must show on the cover page the notation "Prices Shown Herein are Net (discount deducted)". (3) The cover page of the Federal Supply Schedule Price List must include the following information prepared in the format set forth in this subparagraph (b)(3): (i) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION Federal Supply Service Authorized Federal Supply Schedule Price List

Page: 107 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

On-line access to contract ordering information, terms and conditions, up-to-date pricing, and the option to create an electronic delivery order are available through GSA Advantage! ฎ, a menu-driven database system. The INTERNET address GSA Advantage! ฎ is: GSAAdvantage.gov. Schedule Title FSC Group, Part, and Section or Standard Industrial Group (as applicable) FSC Class(es)/Product code(s) and/or Service Codes (as applicable) Contract number For more information on ordering from Federal Supply Schedules click on the FSS Schedules button at fss.gsa.gov. Contract period. Contractor's name, address, and phone number (include toll-free WATS number and FAX number, if applicable) Contractor's internet address/web site where schedule information can be found (as applicable). Contract administration source (if different from preceding entry). Business size. (ii) CUSTOMER INFORMATION: The following information should be placed under this heading in consecutively numbered paragraphs in the sequence set forth below. If this information is placed in another part of the Federal Supply Schedule Price List, a table of contents must be shown on the cover page that refers to the exact location of the information. 1a. Table of awarded special item number(s) with appropriate cross-reference to item descriptions and awarded price(s). 1b. Identification of the lowest priced model number and lowest unit price for that model for each special item number awarded in the contract. This price is the Government price based on a unit of one, exclusive of any quantity/dollar volume, prompt payment, or any other concession affecting price. Those contracts that have unit prices based on the geographic location of the customer, should show the range of the lowest price, and cite the areas to which the prices apply. 1c. If the Contractor is proposing hourly rates, a description of all corresponding commercial job titles, experience, functional responsibility and education for those types of employees or subcontractors who will perform services shall be provided. If hourly rates are not applicable, indicate "Not applicable" for this item. 2. Maximum order. 3. Minimum order. 4. Geographic coverage (delivery area). 5. Point(s) of production (city, county, and State or foreign country). 6. Discount from list prices or statement of net price. 7. Quantity discounts. 8. Prompt payment terms. 9a. Notification that Government purchase cards are accepted at or below the micro-purchase threshold.

Page: 108 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

9b. Notification whether Government purchase cards are accepted or not accepted above the micro-purchase threshold. 10. Foreign items (list items by country of origin). 11a. Time of delivery. (Contractor insert number of days.) 11b. Expedited Delivery. The Contractor will insert the sentence "Items available for expedited delivery are noted in this price list." under this heading. The Contractor may use a symbol of its choosing to highlight items in its price lists that have expedited delivery. 11c. Overnight and 2-day delivery. The Contractor will indicate whether overnight and 2-day delivery are available. Also, the Contractor will indicate that the schedule customer may contact the Contractor for rates for overnight and 2-day delivery. 11d. Urgent Requirements. The Contractor will note in its price list the "Urgent Requirements" clause of its contract and advise agencies that they can also contact the Contractor's representative to effect a faster delivery. 12. F.O.B. point(s). 13a. Ordering address(es). 13b. Ordering procedures: For supplies and services, the ordering procedures, information on Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA's) are found in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 8.405-3. 14. Payment address(es). 15. Warranty provision. 16. Export packing charges, if applicable. 17. Terms and conditions of Government purchase card acceptance (any thresholds above the micro-purchase level). 18. Terms and conditions of rental, maintenance, and repair (if applicable). 19. Terms and conditions of installation (if applicable). 20. Terms and conditions of repair parts indicating date of parts price lists and any discounts from list prices (if applicable). 20a. Terms and conditions for any other services (if applicable). 21. List of service and distribution points (if applicable). 22. List of participating dealers (if applicable). 23. Preventive maintenance (if applicable). 24a. Special attributes such as environmental attributes (e.g., recycled content, energy efficiency, and/or reduced pollutants). 24b. If applicable, indicate that Section 508 compliance information is available

Page: 109 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

on Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) supplies and services and show where full details can be found (e.g. contractor's website or other location.) The EIT standards can be found at: www.Section508.gov/. 25. Data Universal Number System (DUNS) number. 26. Notification regarding registration in Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database. (4) Amendments to Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists must include on the cover page the same information as the basic document plus the title "Supplement No. (sequentially numbered)" and the effective date(s) of such supplements. (5) The Contractor must provide two of the Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists (including covering letters), to the Contracting Officer 30 days after the date of award. Accuracy of information and computation of prices is the responsibility of the Contractor. NOTE: The obliteration discussed in subdivision (b)(2)(i) of this clause must be accomplished prior to the printing and distribution of the Federal Supply Schedule Price Lists. (6) Inclusion of incorrect information (electronically or in paper) will cause the Contractor to reprint/resubmit/correct and redistribute the Federal Supply Schedule Price List, and may constitute sufficient cause for Cancellation, applying the provisions of 52.212-4 , Contract Terms and Conditions (paragraph (m), Termination for Cause), and application of any other remedies as provided by law--including monetary recovery. (7) In addition, one copy of the Federal Supply Schedule Price List must be submitted to the National Customer Service Center, Bldg. No. 4, 1500 E. Bannister Road, Kansas City, MO 64131.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-624 OFFICE COPIER UTILIZATION GUIDELINES (MAY 2000)
Ordering offices using this Federal Supply Schedule should select the appropriate and most economical copier equipment and/or plans for the application intended. The selection process should include a review of the functional and financial advantage of all available copying processes. FAR 7.4, Equipment Lease or Purchase, provides guidance in determining whether equipment should be acquired by lease or purchase; (FAR 8.404 provides ordering procedures applicable to Federal Supply Schedules. Pursuant to a recommendation of the General Accounting Office and in order to assist ordering offices in this evaluation, office copying machine contractors are requested to include in their authorized pricelists specific factual and objective information concerning the productivity and supply use associated with each copier. Such information should relate to the price of equipment and/or plans, price of supplies, rates of consumption, machine production rate, etc., and may include price-per-copy computations. The information furnished should be predicated upon equipment and supplies at prices awarded on the schedule contract. Supply costs should be based on the use of supplies offered by the Contractor for the specific model. Contractors should state all assumptions and the basis for their calculations. The principal value of the information requested will be to expedite the selection of the appropriate and most economical equipment and/or plan. This will largely depend upon the clarity and reliability of the information furnished. The Contractor should state that all calculations are his own and that he is solely responsible for their accuracy.

Begin Regulation

Page: 110 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

I-FSS-626 SERVICE POINTS (AUG 1986)
Offerors are required to include in their pricelists the names and addresses of supply and service points and indicate whether they are stocking or service points, or both.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-639 CONTRACT SALES CRITERIA (MAR 2002)
(a) A contract will not be awarded unless anticipated sales are expected to exceed $25,000 within the first 24 months following contract award, and are expected to exceed $25,000 in sales each 12-month period thereafter. (b) The Government may cancel the contract in accordance with clause 552.238-73, Cancellation, unless reported sales are at the levels specified in paragraph (a) above.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-644 DEALERS AND SUPPLIERS (OCT 1988)
When requested by the Contracting Officer, if other than the manufacturer, the offeror must submit prior to award of a contract, either (1) a letter of commitment from the manufacturer which will assure the offeror of a source of supply sufficient to satisfy the Government's requirements for the contract period, OR (2) evidence that the offeror will have an uninterrupted source of supply from which to satisfy the Government's requirements for the contract period.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-646 BLANKET PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (MAY 2000)
Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA's) can reduce costs and save time because individual orders and invoices are not required for each procurement but can instead be documented on a consolidated basis. The Contractor agrees to enter into BPA's with ordering activities provided that: (a) The period of time covered by such agreements shall not exceed the period of the contract including option year period(s); (b) Orders placed under such agreements shall be issued in accordance with all applicable regulations and the terms and conditions of the contract; and (c) BPAs may be established to obtain the maximum discount (lowest net price) available in those schedule contracts containing volume or quantity discount arrangements.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-680 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION BY CONTRACTOR (APR 1984)
The Government will provide the Contractor with a single copy of the resulting Federal Supply Schedule. However, it is the responsibility of the Contractor to furnish all sales outlets authorized to participate in the performance of the contract with the terms, conditions, pricing schedule, and other appropriate information.

Page: 111 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-965 INTERPRETATION OF CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS (APR 1984)
No interpretation of any provision of this contract, including applicable specifications, shall be binding on the Government unless furnished or agreed to in writing by the Contracting Officer or his designated representative.

Begin Regulation

I-FSS-969 ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT--FSS MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE (JAN 2002) Price adjustments include price increases and price decreases. Adjustments will be considered as follows: (a) Contractors shall submit price decreases anytime during the contract period in which they occur. Price decreases will be handled in accordance with the provisions of the Price Reduction Clause. (b) There are two types of economic price adjustments (EPAs) possible under the Multiple Award Schedules (MAS) program for contracts not based on commercial catalogs or price lists as described below. Price adjustments may be effective on or after the first 12 months of the contract period on the following basis: (1) Adjustments based on escalation rates negotiated prior to contract award. Normally, when escalation rates are negotiated, they result in a fixed price for the term of the contract. No separate contract modification will be provided when increases are based on negotiated escalation rates. Price increases will be effective on the 12-month anniversary date of the contract effective date, subject to paragraph (f), below. (2) Adjustments based on an agreed-upon market indicator prior to award. The market indicator, as used in this clause, means the originally released public index, public survey or other public, based market indicator. The market indicator shall be the originally released index, survey or market indicator, not seasonally adjusted, published by the [to be negotiated], and made available at [to be identified]. Any price adjustment shall be based on the percentage change in the designated (i.e. indicator identification and date) market indicator from the initial award to the latest available as of the anniversary date of the contract effective date, subject to paragraph (e), below. If the market indicator is discontinued or deemed no longer available or reliable by the Government, the Government and the Contractor will mutually agree to a substitute. The contract modification reflecting the price adjustment will be effective upon approval by the Contracting Officer, subject to paragraph (g), below. The adjusted prices shall apply to orders issued to the Contractor on or after the effective date of the contract modification. (c) Nothwithstanding the two economic price adjustments discussed above, the Government recognizes the potential impact of unforeseeable major changes in market conditions. For those cases where such changes do occur, the contracting officer will review requests to make adjustments, subject to the Government's examination of industry-wide market conditions and the conditions in paragraph (d) and (e), below. If adjustments are accepted, the contract will be modified accordingly. The determination of whether or not extra-ordinary circumstances exist rests with the contracting officer. The determination of an appropriate mechanism of adjustment will be subject to negotiations. (d) Conditions of Price change requests under paragraphs b(2) and c above.: (1) No more than three increases will be considered during each succeeding 12-month period of

Page: 112 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part II - CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

the contract. (For succeeding contract periods of less than 12 months, up to three increases will be considered subject to the other conditions of subparagraph (b)). (2) Increases are requested before the last 60 days of the contract period, including options. (3) At least 30 days elapse between requested increases. (4) In any contract period during which price increases will be considered, the aggregate of the increases during any 12-month period shall not exceed 20 percent for products and 8 percent for services percent (.%) of the contract unit price in effect at the end of the preceding 12-month period. The Government reserves the right to raise the ceiling when market conditions during the contract period support such a change. (e) The following material shall be submitted with request for a price increase under paragraphs b(2) and c above: (1) A copy of the index, survey or pricing indicator showing the price increase and the effective date. (2) Commercial Sales Practice format, per contract clause 52.215-21 Alternate IV, demonstrating the relationship of the Contractor's commercial pricing practice to the adjusted pricing proposed or a certification that no change has occurred in the data since completion of the initial negotiation or a subsequent submission. (3) Any other documentation requested by the Contracting Officer to support the reasonableness of the price increase. (f) The Government reserves the right to exercise one of the following options: (1) Accept the Contractor's price increases as requested when all conditions of (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this clause are satisfied; (2) Negotiate more favorable prices when the total increase requested is not supported; or, (3) Decline the price increase when the request is not supported. The Contractor may remove the item(s) from contract involved pursuant to the Cancellation Clause of this contract. (g) Effective Date of Increases: No price increase shall be effective until the Government receives the electronic file updates pursuant to GSAR 552.243-72, Modifications (Multiple Award Schedule). (h) All MAS contracts remain subject to contract clauses GSAR 552.238-75, "Price Reductions"; and 552.215-72, "Price Adjustment -- Failure to Provide Accurate Information." In the event the application of an economic price adjustment results in a price less favorable to the Government than the price relationship established during negotiation between the MAS price and the price to the designated customer, the Government will maintain the price relationship to the designated customer.

Page: 113 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS
52.212-1, INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS The appropriate NAICS codes may be found in Part I, GOODS & SERVICES, of this solicitation following each SIN.

Begin Regulation

52.209-5 CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (APR 2010)
(a) (1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that(i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals(A) Are ______ are not ______ presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (B) Have ______ have not ______, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property (if offeror checks "have", the offeror shall also see 52.209-7, if included in this solicitation); and (C) Are ______ are not ______ presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in subdivision (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; and (D) Have ______ have not ______, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (2) Examples. (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under

Page: 114 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

I.R.C. ง 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. ง 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. ง 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (ii) The Offeror has ______ has not ______, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal Agency. (2) "Principal," for the purposes of this certification, means an officer; director; owner; partner; or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). This certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under section 1001, title 18, United States Code. (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror's responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. (d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealing. (e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting

Page: 115 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default.

Begin Regulation

52.209-7 INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (FEB 2012)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision -- Administrative proceeding means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000 means -- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror ______ has ______ does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions: (i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in -- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i),

Page: 116 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

(c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database via https://www.acquisition.gov (see 52.204-7).

Begin Regulation

52.215-20 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA AND DATA OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 2010) (ALTERNATE IV -- OCT 2010)
(a) Submission of certified cost or pricing data is not required. (b) Provide data described below: [Insert description of the data and the format that are required, including the access to records necessary to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price in accordance with 15.403ญ3.] As determined by the contracting officer and any authorized representative.

Begin Regulation

52.215-6 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 1997)
(a) The offeror or respondent, in the performance of any contract resulting from this solicitation, ____ intends, ____ does not intend [check applicable box] to use one or more plants or facilities located at a different address from the address of the offeror or respondent as indicated in this proposal or response to request for information. (b) If the offeror or respondent checks "intends" in paragraph (a) of this provision, it shall insert in the following spaces the required information:

PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (Street Address, City, State, County, Zip Code)

NAME AND ADDRESS OF OWNER AND OPERATOR OF THE PLANT OR FACILITY IF OTHER THAN OFFEROR OR RESPONDENT

Begin Regulation

52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)
The Government contemplates award of a Indefinite-Delivery-Indefinite-Quantity (IDIQ) contract resulting

Page: 117 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

from this solicitation.

Begin Regulation

52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)
(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: General Services Administration General Services Administration Integrated Workplace Acquisition Center (GSA/FAS/3QSA) 2200 CRYSTAL DRIVE ARLINGTON VA 22202-4502 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

Begin Regulation

52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): For contract provisions which are contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) the address is http://acquisition.gov/far.

Number 52.212-1 52.214-34 52.214-35 52.222-24 52.222-46 52.225-25

Title INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (FEB 2012) SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE (APR 1991) SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN U.S. CURRENCY (APR 1991) PREAWARD ON-SITE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE REVIEW (FEB 1999) EVALUATION OF COMPENSATION FOR PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES (FEB 1993)

Clause/Provision Provision Provision Provision Provision Provision

PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES ENGAGING Provision IN SANCTIONED ACTIVITIES RELATING TO IRAN -REPRESENTATION AND CERTIFICATION (NOV 2011)

52.237-1 52.237-10 552.219-72

SITE VISIT (APR 1984) IDENTIFICATION OF UNCOMPENSATED OVERTIME (OCT 1997) PREPARATION, SUBMISSION, AND NEGOTIATION OF SUBCONTRACTING PLANS (MAR 2012)

Provision Provision Provision

Page: 118 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

Begin Regulation

552.217-71 NOTICE REGARDING OPTION(S) (NOV 1992)
The General Services Administration (GSA) has included an option to extend the term of the contract in order to demonstrate the value it places on quality performance by providing a mechanism for continuing a contractual relationship with a successful offeror that performs at a level which meets or exceeds GSA's quality performance expectations as communicated to the Contractor, in writing, by the Contracting Officer or designated representative. When deciding whether to exercise the option, the Contracting Officer will consider the quality of the Contractor's past performance under this contract in accordance with 48 CFR 517.207.

Begin Regulation

552.232-82 CONTRACTOR'S REMITTANCE (PAYMENT) ADDRESS (MAY 2003)
(a) Payment by electronic funds transfer (EFT) is the preferred method of payment. However, under certain conditions, the ordering activity may elect to make payment by check. The offeror shall indicate below the payment address to which checks should be mailed for payment of proper invoices submitted under a resultant contract. PAYMENT ADDRESS

(b) Offeror shall furnish by attachment to this solicitation, the remittance (payment) addresses of all authorized participating dealers receiving orders and accepting payment by check in the name of the Contractor in care of the dealer, if different from their ordering address(es) specified elsewhere in this solicitation. If a dealer's ordering and remittance address differ, both must be furnished and identified as such. (c) All offerors are cautioned that if the remittance (payment) address shown on an actual invoice differs from that shown in paragraph (b) of this provision or on the attachment, the remittance address(es) in paragraph (b) of this provision or attached will govern. Payment to any other address, except as provided for through EFT payment methods, will require an administrative change to the contract. Note: All orders placed against a Federal Supply Schedule contract are to be paid by the individual ordering activity placing the order. Each order will cite the appropriate ordering activity payment address, and proper invoices should be sent to that address. Proper invoices should be sent to GSA only for orders placed by GSA. Any other ordering activity's invoices sent to GSA will only delay your payment.

Begin Regulation

Page: 119 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

A-FSS-11 CONSIDERATION OF OFFERS UNDER STANDING SOLICITATION (DEC 2000)
(a) This solicitation is a standing solicitation from which the Government contemplates award of contracts for supplies/services listed in the Schedule of Items. This solicitation will remain in effect unless replaced by an updated solicitation. (b) There is no closing date for receipt of offers; therefore, offers may be submitted for consideration at any time. (c) An offer may be rejected if an offeror fails to meet timeframes established by the Contracting Officer either to address deficiencies in the offer or to submit a final proposal revision. A resubmission(s) is permitted; however, it may be rejected immediately if it is still deficient in the area(s) that caused its initial rejection. (d) Contracts awarded under this solicitation will be in effect for 5 years from the date of award, unless further extended, pursuant to clause I-FSS-163, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Evergreen), canceled pursuant to the Cancellation clause, or terminated pursuant to the termination provisions of the contract. (e) Current contractors may submit a new offer as early as 9 months prior to the expiration of the existing contract.

Begin Regulation

A-FSS-12-C PERIOD FOR ACCEPTANCE OF OFFERS (NOV 1997)
Paragraph (c) of the provision 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items, is revised to read as follows: The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 120 calendar days from the date of the offer, within which offer may be accepted.

Begin Regulation

A-FSS-31 NOTICE OF TOTAL SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE (OCT 1988)
The clause entitled "Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside," applies to the following items in this solicitation: Special Item Numbers (SINs): 20-220 - Projection Screen, Stand, Printer (Enlarger), Systems 51-101-7 - Transparency Film 47-147 - Security Applications for Business Machines 50-180 - Time and Attendance Program Systems.

Begin Regulation

A-FSS-41 INFORMATION COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND HOURS OF OPERATION (NOV 1999)
(a) "The information collection requirements contained in this solicitation/contract are either required by regulation or approved by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act and assigned OMB Control No. 3090-0163." (b) "GSA's hours of operation are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Requests for preaward debriefings postmarked or otherwise submitted after 4:30 p.m. will be considered submitted the following business day.

Page: 120 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

Requests for postaward debriefings delivered after 4:30 p.m. will be considered received and filed the following business day."

Begin Regulation

B-FSS-96 ESTIMATED SALES (NOV 1997)
The "Estimated Sales" column of the Schedule of Items shows (1) a twelve-month reading of purchases in dollars or purchases in units as reported by the previous Contractor(s), or (2) estimates of the anticipated dollar volume where the item is new. The absence of a figure indicates that neither reports of previous purchases nor estimates of sales are available.

The SINS for schedule number 036 are listed below
SIN # 20 220 20 300 47 145 47 147 47 355 50 156 50 163 50 177 50 180 50 205 50 281 50 287 50 7002 51 001 51 002 51 55 51 56 SIN Title Projection Screen, Stand, Printer (Enlarger), Systems Projectors & Electronic Whiteboards Typewriters Security Applications for Business Machines Dictating and Transcribing Machines and Systems Personal & Document Identification Systems Mail Processing Machines, Systems and Related Software Date and Time Stamps Time and Attendance Program Systems Rental Plan for Postage Meters and Related Mailing Equipment Calculators Money Handling & Processing Machines Stencil Cutting Machines Office Products for the Impaired Business Card Scanner and Solutions Rental Plan for Copiers Repair of Government-Owned Equipment (all equipment covered under this schedule) for equipment not under Maintenance Service Agreement 51 57 51 58 51 58A 51 58B 51 100 51 100C 51 100F 51 101 2 51 101 7 51 208 Maintenance Service Agreement For Copiers Lease to Ownership Plans (LTOP) Copiers Operating Lease Plan For Copiers Operating Lease Plan - (All Other Products) Copiers Cost-per-Copy Plan for Copiers (to include Analog, Digital, Multifunctional and Engineer Copiers) Flat Rate Monthly Fee Copying Plan For Copiers Consumable Supplies for Copiers, Computers Printers and Fax Machines Transparency Film Maintenance Service Agreement For all Other Equipment Repair, replacement, and spare parts for equipment other than copiers, including their associated accessories and $0 $748,676 $28,371,443 $4,524,081 $136,202,134 $19,237,712 $48,847,948 $341,324 $61,309,518 $11,029,036 $856 $298,403 $142,055 $51,864 $0 $5,514,373 $76,720 Total Sales in $ $149,889 $917,372 $198,650 $49,013 $119,785 $1,818,753 $8,864,354 $189,750 $0 $1,940,830

Page: 121 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

attachments. 51 212 51 229 51 402 51 409 51 417 51 500 51 501 51 503 51 504 51 505 51 506 51 507 51 508 51 509 51 1000 51 1001 51 B36 2A 165 205 733 1 733 2 733 3 733 4 733 5 733 6 Post Copying/Finishing Equipment and Supplies Digital Duplicating Equipment Multi-Media Readers, Reader-Printers and Systems Network, Optical Imaging Systems and Solutions Microphotographic Film, Paper, Chemical Preparation and Equipment Managed Print Services Needs Assessment and Analysis Services Education and Training Support Services Records Management Services Document Production On-site and Off-site Services Document Conversion Services Destruction Services Litigation Support Services Network Connectivity Support Services Ancillary Supplies and/or Services Introduction of New Products/Services (INPS SIN) International - All Equipment under this Schedule Multimedia Office Cabinets, Displays, and Filing Systems including Pocket Card Frames and Portfolios Mail Room Management Services Presort Mail Miscellaneous Mail Services List Management Services Mailroom Ergonomic Analysis Services Mail Screening and Inspection Services $7,919,486 $1,399,417 $118,838,424 $334,975 $0 $26,763 $705,880 $8,578,945 $318,226 $65,507,483 $74,380,085 $30,686,065 $6,869,611 $7,518,896 $59,347 $36,970 $5,684,393 $5,001,046 $9,804,912 $1,396,327 $57,127 $584,196 $3,950,477 $5,132

Begin Regulation

K-FSS-1 AUTHORIZED NEGOTIATORS (MAR 1998)
The offeror shall, in the spaces provided below, fill in the names of all persons authorized to negotiate with the Government in connection with this request for proposals or quotations. (List the names, titles, telephone numbers and electronic mail addresses of the authorized negotiators.) NAMES & TITLES TELEPHONE NUMBERS ELECTRONIC MAIL ADDRESSES

Note: Regulation K-FSS-1 To avoid complications, it is recommended that 2 or more people with digital certificates be

Page: 122 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

identified as authorized negotiators.

Begin Regulation

L-FSS-101 FINAL PROPOSAL REVISION (JUN 2002)
(a) Upon the conclusion of discussions the Contracting Officer will request a final proposal revision. Oral requests will be confirmed in writing. (b) The request will include-- (1) Notice that discussions are concluded; (2) Notice that this is the opportunity to submit a final proposal revision; (3) The specified cutoff date and time; (4) A statement that any modification proposed as a result of the final proposal revision must be received by the date and time specified and will be subject to the Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Proposals provision of this solicitation. (c) The Contracting Officer will not reopen discussions after receipt of final proposal revisions unless it is clearly in the interests of the Government to do so. If discussions are reopened, the Contracting Officer will issue an additional request for final proposal revision. (d) It is the Contracting Officer's desire to conclude negotiations by a date to be determined..

Begin Regulation

L-FSS-400 INTRODUCTION OF NEW SERVICES/PRODUCTS (INSP) (NOV 2000)
(a) Definition. Introduction of New Services/Products Special Item Number (INSP/SIN) means a new or improved service or product-- within the scope of the Federal Supply Schedule, but not currently available under any Federal Supply Service contract-- that provides a new service, function, task, or attribute that may provide a more economical or efficient means for Federal agencies to accomplish their mission. It may significantly improve an existing service or product. It may be a service or product existing in the commercial market, but not yet introduced to the Federal Government. (b) Offerors are encouraged to introduce new services or products via the Introduction of New Services/Products Special Item Number (INSP/SIN). A new or improved service or product can be offered at anytime. Offerors are requested to clearly identify the INSP/SIN item in the offer. (c) The Contracting Officer will evaluate and process the INSP/SIN offer. A technical review may be performed. Offerors may be required to demonstrate that the service or product can provide a more economical or efficient means for Federal agencies to accomplish their mission. The Contracting Officer has the sole discretion to determine whether a product or service will be accepted as an INSP/SIN item. The INSP/SIN provides temporary placement until the new service or product can be formally categorized. (d) If the Contractor has an existing Multiple Award Schedule contract, the Government may, at the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer, modify the existing contract to include the INSP/SIN item in

Page: 123 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part III - VENDOR INSTRUCTIONS

accordance with 552.243-72, Modifications (Multiple Award Schedule).

Begin Regulation

L-FSS-59 AWARD (APR 1984)
Until a formal notice of award is issued, no communication by the Government, whether written or oral, shall be interpreted as a promise that an award will be made.

Page: 124 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part IV - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR CONTRACT AWARD

Part IV - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR CONTRACT AWARD
Begin Regulation

552.212-73 EVALUATION--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (MULTIPLE AWARD SCHEDULE) (AUG 1997)
(a) The Government may make multiple awards for the supplies or services offered in response to this solicitation that meet the definition of a "commercial item" in FAR 52.202-1. Awards may be made to those responsible offerors that offer reasonable pricing, conforming to the solicitation, and will be most advantageous to the Government, taking into consideration the multiplicity and complexity of items of various manufacturers and the differences in performance required to accomplish or produce required end results, production and distribution facilities, price, compliance with delivery requirements, and other pertinent factors. By providing a selection of comparable supplies or services, ordering activities are afforded the opportunity to fulfill their requirements with the item(s) that constitute the best value and that meet their needs at the lowest overall cost. (b) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.

Page: 125 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION
IMPORTANT NOTICE: IMPORTANT NOTICE: Offeror Representations and Certifications must be completed in the System for Award Management (SAM) database and must be updated as necessary, but at least annually. Visit http://sam.gov to access the registration website. Offerors should complete a copy of paragrph (b) of clause 52.212-3 in the SAM record if any representations and certifications for this solicitation differ from those posted in the offeror's ORCA file and upload it as an "Other (optional-offeror defined) document in eOffer.

Begin Regulation

52.212-3 OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS -- COMMERCIAL ITEMS (APR 2012)
An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision -- ``Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service -- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except -- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;

Page: 126 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores; (9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" -- means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate -- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Sensitive technology"-- (1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically-- (i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or (ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and (2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)). "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern" -- (1) Means a small business concern -- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-- disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a veteran with permanent and severe

Page: 127 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned -- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or (2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern -- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website accessed through https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.

Page: 128 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

These amended representation(s) and/or certifications(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.] (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ______ is, ______ is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ______ is, ______ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ______ is, ______ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ______ is, ______ is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ______ is, ______ is not a women-owned small business concern. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It ______ is, ______ is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It ______ is, ______ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ______.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It ______ is, ______ is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It ______ is, ______ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13

Page: 129 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture:______.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it ______ is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price: ___________________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program -- Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either -- (A) It ______ is, ______ is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It ______ has, ______ has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) ______ Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture:___________________.] (11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that -- (i) It ______ is, ______ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership

Page: 130 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It ______ is, ______ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________________________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 -- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -- (i) It ______ has, ______ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It ______ has, ______ has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -- (i) It ______ has developed and has on file, ______ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It ______ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-- Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

Page: 131 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

(List as Necessary)

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g) (1) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

(List as Necessary)

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of ``domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

Page: 132 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

(List as Necessary)

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No.

(List as Necessary)

(3) Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act -- Free Trade Agreements -- Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

(List as Necessary)

(4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at 52.225ญ3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Page: 133 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

(List as Necessary)

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

(List as Necessary)

(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals -- (1) ______ Are, ______ are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) ______ Have, ______ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) ______ Are, ______ are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged

Page: 134 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) ______ Have, ______ have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. ง 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. ง 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. ง 6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C.ง 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. End Product Country of Origin

Page: 135 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

(List as Necessary)

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] ______ (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. ______ (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of Manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly -- (1) ______ In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) ______ Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] X (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ______ does ______ does not certify that -- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. X (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ______ does ______ does not certify that -- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental

Page: 136 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies -- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). ______ TIN: _____________________. ______ TIN has been applied for. ______ TIN is not required because: ______ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; ______ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;

Page: 137 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

______ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. ______ Sole proprietorship; ______ Partnership; ______ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); ______ Corporate entity (tax-exempt); ______ Government entity (Federal, State, or local); ______ Foreign government; ______ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; ______ Other _________________________. (5) Common parent. ______ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; ______ Name and TIN of common parent: Name ___________________. TIN _____________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that -- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. (o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (2) Representation and Certification. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror-- (i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran; and

Page: 138 of 139

3FNJ-C1-000001-B Refresh: 29 Part V - OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATION

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act. (3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

Page: 139 of 139

Offeror shall complete this form and submit with their offer.





Offeror’s Name (include a “Doing Business As” (DBA), if applicable): 



___________________________________________________________________________________________



DUNS Number: _______________________________



Tax Identification Number (TIN): ______________________________



Offeror’s Website Address: ___________________________________



      ⇫	  Mark this box if your company does not have a website



Published Commercial Price List upon which the offer is based (if multiple price lists, attach a complete list as a separate page):



Name of Price List:	________________________________________________________________________



Effective Date of Price List:	__________________________________________________________________



Effective date that the above commercial price list was implemented to commercial customers: 



___________________________________________________________________________________________



1.	If available electronically only, provide website and effective date of pricing. 



	_____________________________________________________________________________________



2.	If special catalogs or price lists are printed for the purpose of this offer, these descriptive catalogs or price lists shall include a statement indicating that the special catalog or price list represents a verbatim extract from the contractor’s commercial catalog and/or price list, and shall identify the descriptive catalog and/or price list from which the information has been extracted: 



	________________________________________________________________________________

	________________________________________________________________________________





Freight Terms:



Government:    ____	 FOB Destination 

		           ____	 FOB Origin Freight Prepaid and Add



If FOB Destination, indicate below whether or not prices submitted cover delivery FOB Destination in Alaska, Hawaii, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.



			Alaska 		 Yes  ___	 No ___

			Hawaii 	 	 Yes  ___	 No ___

			Puerto Rico 	 Yes  ___	 No ___









Delivery:  Indicate below your delivery times offered to the Government and your Commercial Customers, adding rows as necessary





Additional Offer Information:



Note:  The above format can be recreated to include more space for your responses.



Leasing/Rental:

Please indicate if you are offering Leasing and/or Rental

	___  Leasing 

___  Rental



Participating Dealers (Clause 552.216-73):

	___  Will utilize Participating Dealers

	___  No Participating Dealers

If you are using Participating Dealers, please provide a separate attachment listing the name, address and phone number of each Participating Dealer.





Accounting System:

An adequate and auditable system for tracking Government sales separately from commercial sales, and for purposes of the Industrial Funding Fee, is required.  This accounting system will be subject to review and examination by the Government as appropriate.  Please identify the name of the accounting system in place. 



Accounting System: ___________________________________________





Trade Agreements Act:

An adequate system must be in place to ensure all products awarded on GSA schedule contracts are compliant with the Trade Agreements Act (Clause 52.225-5).  Please describe your plan to monitor the production point of products awarded on contract to ensure that they are TAA compliant when added, and remain TAA compliant while on contract, particularly for products your company does not manufacture itself.   Your plan should reflect a proactive approach and should not rely on the manufacturer to notify you of changes in production points.



Explanation:______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________









AbilityOne (formerly JWOD):

The undersigned hereby confirms that I have reviewed both of the AbilityOne websites located at  and , and certify that any products determined to be essentially the same (ETS) as have been excluded from this offer, and that a list of all excluded products is included with the offer. Please identify the system in place and how compliance will be monitored.



Explanation:______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card:

Clause 552.232-79, Payment by Credit Card, requires all contractors to accept the Government-wide Commercial Purchase Card for purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold.  Please indicate if you will accept the government credit card for purchases above the micro-purchase threshold.   Please note: Credit card fees or convenience fees may NOT be charged to the end customer.  



YES		NO





If you are submitting this offer because your current GSA schedule contract is approaching its 20 year limit and the expiration of its final option period, indicate the contract number of your current contract below.



Not Applicable:_______

or

Current contract number:  ___________________________________



STATEMENT



The undersigned hereby certify that the above information is correct.  In addition, I fully understand and shall comply with clause 552.238-74, Industrial Funding Fee and Sales Reporting, and confirm that I have not made any changes to the terms and conditions of this solicitation.





_______________________________________________

Printed Name



_______________________________________________

Signature



_______________________________________________

Title



_______________________________________________

Date



SIN

Normal Delivery ARO (Government)

Normal Delivery ARO (Commercial)

















Most Favored Customer (MFC)

Government (GSA)

Prompt Payment Terms

 Net 30 Days

 Prompt Payment Discount: ______

 Net 30 Days

 Prompt Payment Discount:_____

Warranty:





Return Policy/Restocking Policy

(if applicable)





Minimum Order Requirement



