PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT



Records Exchange Advice, Communication, and Technical Support (REACTS)





INTRODUCTION



The Office of Migrant Education (OME), within the U.S. Department of Education (ED), requires the services of a contractor to help improve the interstate and intrastate coordination of Title I, Part C, Migrant Education Program (MEP) with respect to the exchange of migrant student records from one district to another and from one State to another State.  This contract will provide programmatic support to enhance the Migrant Records Exchange Initiative and help promote the use of the Migrant Student Information Exchange (MSIX) consolidated record for the purposes of enrollment, grade and course placement, and accrual of credits for migrant children nationwide. The OME requires contractor support in three major areas: (1) provide expert advice and consultation to State and local staff on the implementation of an effective state-wide migrant records exchange program; (2) facilitate communication between stakeholders in order to promote and expand the Migrant Records Exchange Initiative nationwide; and (3) provide subject matter expertise and technical assistance and support to OME and the States on various records exchange issues. The period of performance shall be a base year (12 months), and 3 option years (48 months) if exercised by ED.



BACKGROUND

The Migrant Education Program



The MEP, authorized under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA), as amended, is intended to:



support high-quality and comprehensive educational programs for migratory children to help reduce the educational disruptions and other problems that result from repeated moves; 

ensure that migratory children who move among the States are not penalized in any manner by disparities among the States in curriculum, graduation requirements, and State academic content and student academic achievement standards; 

ensure that migratory children are provided with appropriate educational services (including supportive services) that address their special needs in a coordinated and efficient manner; 

ensure that migratory children receive full and appropriate opportunities to meet the same challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards that all children are expected to meet; 

design programs to help migratory children overcome educational disruption, cultural and language barriers, social isolation, various health-related problems, and other factors that inhibit the ability of such children to do well in school, and prepare such children to make a successful transition to postsecondary education or employment; and

ensure that migratory children benefit from State and local systemic reforms.



A migratory child is defined as a child who is or, or whose parent, spouse, or guardian is, a migratory agricultural worker, including a migratory dairy worker, or migratory fisher, and who, in the preceding 36 months, in order to obtain or accompany such parent or spouse in order to obtain, temporary or seasonal employment in agriculture or fishing work has moved from one school district to another.  This definition also contains special provisions for geographically large districts like those found in Alaska.



The Migrant Records Exchange Initiative

The Department was mandated by Congress, in Section 1308 (b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB), to assist States in developing effective methods for the electronic transfer of student records and in determining the number of migratory children in each State. Further, Congress directed the Secretary, in Section 1308 (b)(2)(A) of the statute, to ensure the linkage of migrant student record systems. In accordance with the mandate, the Department has implemented the Migrant Student Information Exchange Initiative whose primary mission is to ensure the appropriate enrollment, placement, and accrual of credits for migrant children.

The migrant student records exchange initiative is a compilation of several projects, studies, and initiatives focused on determining and creating the most effective national records transfer system.  Its primary goals are to:

1.  Create an electronic exchange for the transfer of migrant student education and health data amongst the States.

2.  Promote the use of MSIX.

3.  Ensure the use of the consolidated migrant student record for the purposes of enrollment, placement, and accrual of credit of migrant students in school and migrant education projects.

4.  Produce national data on the migrant population.



The Migrant Student Information Exchange

 is the technology that allows States to share educational and health information on migrant children who travel from State to State and who as a result, have student records in multiple States' information systems. MSIX works in concert with the existing migrant student information systems that States currently use to manage their migrant data to fulfill its mission to ensure the appropriate enrollment, placement, and accrual of credits for migrant children nationwide.

Scope of Work



This contract is intended to help States use the MSIX as an effective tool to facilitate the timely and accurate exchange of migrant student records nationwide.  National migrant records exchange has not been fully-implemented since the termination of the Migrant Student Records Transfer System (MSRTS) in 1995.  Therefore, States need advice on how to implement statewide processes and procedures in order to effectively make use of the MSIX consolidated record to assist students that arrive unexpectedly in their districts from other States.  This is particularly a concern for secondary students who need timely placement in the correct course or grade in order to graduate.  The contractor shall provide expert advice to States through direct onsite visits, teleconferencing, webinars, or other cost-effective methods.  In addition, since MSIX is a new system, many State and local staff do not know that this tool exists for their use and/or the benefits of using MSIX to facilitate the enrollment, grade/course placement, and accrual of credits for their students.  The contractor shall develop and implement a Communications Plan to increase awareness of MSIX and its benefits for migrant records exchange purposes.  The contractor shall provide subject matter experts who will develop templates, guides, or other material that will be used by States to help implement their statewide records exchange program and subject matter experts for OME to assist in analyzing and implementing the national records exchange program.



The contractor shall perform the following tasks:

 

Task 1: Provide expert advice and consultation

Task 2: Facilitate communication between stakeholders 

Task 3: Provide subject matter expert technical assistance and support 

Task 4: Present at National Conferences and Meetings

Task 5: Provide project management and contract reporting

Task 6: Develop procedures for contract phase-in and phase-out periods





Task 1: Provide expert advice and consultation



The contractor shall be generally knowledgeable regarding current practices for exchanging records on the State and local level, the issues and challenges of effectively exchanging migrant student records, using information in migrant records for credit accrual, the MSIX, the minimum data elements, the MEP statute and regulations, the history of migrant records exchange and the MSRTS, policy requirements for records exchange, and records exchange best practices.  The contractor shall establish a REACTS Team that provides expert advice and consultation to States on a variety of records exchange topics including:



How to use the MSIX consolidated record to facilitate the enrollment, grade and/or course placement, and accrual of credits for migrant children.

How to monitor staff at the district and local level to ensure they are effectively exchanging records.

How to work effectively with State trading partners to ensure shared students have the courses and services they need to graduate in their home district on time.

How to evaluate the effectiveness of a State’s records exchange program.

Explaining the requirements for exchanging records based on MEP statute and guidance.

Implementing procedures at the State and local level to correct or update migrant student records in their State’s database when errors are identified by other States, students, or parents. 



Within 30 days of contract award, the contractor shall establish and publicize a REACTS Team email address that State and local representatives can use to request technical assistance and/or advice on records exchange issues.  The contractor shall provide written responses to email requests for information within two working days of receiving such requests.  The contractor shall triage requests for advice and assistance to the appropriate REACTS Team member, OME or MSIX personnel based on a triage flowchart that will be initially developed in draft by the REACTS Team contractor and finalized in consultation with the MSIX Project Manager.   



The contractor may provide verbal responses to emailed questions from the public; however all questions and responses shall be appropriately documented in writing regardless of whether the response was via phone or email.  The contractor shall maintain original copies of all emails, and correspondence requesting information from the REACTS Team and provide them to OME promptly upon request.  The contractor shall also maintain an electronic log of all incoming requests for information to the REACTS Team, to include the requestor’s name, organization, question, REACTS Team’s response, date of request and date response provided.  The contractor shall provide the log to the contracting officer’s representative (COR) monthly as an appendix to the contractor’s monthly report.  



The contractor shall plan up to 10, 2-day trips per year for up to 2 people per trip to meet onsite with State representatives and assist them with planning and implementing their statewide records exchange program.  Generally, the onsite visits shall be determined on a first-come, first served basis and must be first approved by the COR before travel is incurred.  When possible, the contractor shall maximize his efforts by holding regional meetings or visiting States that are logistically close during the same time period.  The contractor shall produce a trip report for each trip that fully-documents the trips’ purpose, discussions held, and outcome.



Deliverables: 

Response to emailed questions - within 2 work days of receipt 

Triage flowchart – draft within 5 days ACA

Triage flowchart – final within 15 days ACA

Monthly email request log – every 30 days; 

State Advisory and Consultation trips – 10 trips per year and each year thereafter

Trip Reports – within 10 working days after each trip



Task 2: Facilitate communication between stakeholders

Communications Plan



The contractor shall develop a comprehensive Communications Plan, compliant with ED publication standards, to enhance communications between records exchange stakeholders (including State and local staff, parents, students, MSIX team members, and OME) by providing informative, accurate and consistent information regarding records exchange issues to the migrant community through various communication mechanisms.  The contractor shall develop a draft Communications Plan that includes a strategy, events, and a timeline and that is designed to promote the national records exchange initiative.  Minimally, the Communications Plan shall include requirements for a REACTS Team-produced records exchange quarterly newsletter, periodic listserv messages, a New State Director’s Records Exchange Welcome Packet, semi-annual State survey on effective records exchange practices, informational videos and/or webinars geared towards migrant parents, as well as outreach materials for parents in Spanish.  The Communications Plan may contain events and actions that are carried out by several different parties including the REACTS Team, the MSIX Team, the OME, States, or other Department components (e.g. the EDfacts Team).  In consultation with the COR and the MSIX Project Manager, the contractor shall finalize and implement the Communications Plan.  The contractor shall create a work breakdown structure (WBS) to track the implementation, work progress and schedule of the specific actions and products contained in the plan regardless of which party is responsible for implementing the specific action or product.  The tasks and timeline contained in the WBS shall be agreed to by the contractor, COR and all external parties that have products due in the WBS.  All materials created in accordance with the Communications Plan and assigned to the contractor, shall be reviewed and updated by the contractor as changes are made and no less often than every 6 months.



Deliverables: 

Communications Plan draft – 30 days ACA 

Communications Plan final – 45 days ACA and updated semi-annually 

WBS - 45 days ACA and updated as needed and no later than monthly 

Communication Plan Products – produced, reviewed, and/or updated according to the WBS and semi-annually

 Migrant Records Exchange Quarterly Newsletter

The contractor shall produce an electronic, printable and editable newsletter once every three months that describes and promotes a variety of topics including State’s records exchange best practices, student success stories, MSIX enhancements, MSIX user group events, conferences, and upcoming events of interest to the records exchange community.  The Quarterly Newsletter should generally be no more than six (6) pages and could contain articles contributed by persons involved with records exchange on the State or local level as well as parents.  The contractor shall contribute ideas and suggestions for interesting news articles and sources of information for the newsletter.  The contractor shall produce the first draft newsletter within 60 days of contract award and a final newsletter within 90 days of contract award.  The contractor shall continue to produce a draft newsletter for COR approval no later than 15 days before the end of each quarter and a final newsletter at the end of each quarter using a desktop publishing tool approved by the COR (e.g. Microsoft Publisher, Adobe PageMaker, QuarkXPress). 



Deliverables: 

Quarterly Records Exchange Newsletter draft – 60 days ACA and 15 days before the end of each quarter thereafter

Quarterly Records Exchange Newsletter final – 90 days ACA and every three months thereafter



Records Exchange Listserv

The contractor shall manage and expand the existing one-way MSIX listserv.  The contractor shall post information in a timely manner (NLT three work days) after receiving listserv material from the COR.  The contractor shall ensure new listserv members are added promptly (NLT three work days) to the listserv and that listserv members are deleted when they are no longer participating in the migrant program or upon their request.   The contractor shall maintain a list and electronic file of all materials posted on the listserv as well as the date the material was posted.  The contractor shall provide the listserv content list and content (as required) to the COR quarterly and upon request.



Deliverables: 

Posted Listserv Material – within three work days of receipt

Update Listserv Members - within three work days of request

Listserv Content List – quarterly and upon request



Records Exchange Semi-Annual Survey

The contractor shall conduct a semi-annual survey to the MSIX listserv members and other stakeholders (not to exceed 200 people) on the effectiveness of the records exchange program.  The contractor shall design the survey such that it provides both quantitative and qualitative information that will be useful in improving the records exchange program.  The contractor shall complete all paperwork necessary to obtain OMB clearance to conduct the survey.   The contractor shall compile the results of the survey and create a report of the results. 



Deliverables:

Draft Survey – within 150 months ACA

Final Survey – within 180 days ACA and semi-annually thereafter



Task 3: Provide subject matter expert technical assistance and support

Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)

The contractor shall provide up to 2,200 hours per contract year of direct subject matter expertise or obtain subject matter experts to provide technical assistance in a variety of records exchange related topics.  Unless fewer SMEs are requested by the COR, the contractor shall suggest three SMEs who are qualified to perform the requested task.  Given the limited subject matter expertise that exists regarding records exchange topics, the COR may, on occasion, suggest knowledgeable SMEs for consideration by the contractor.  The following is an example of the types of expertise that will be required during the duration of the contract:



Compile and develop a list of records exchange Questions and Answers (Q&As)

Create a records exchange implementation guide for States

Create records exchange policies and procedures templates for customization by States

Create analytical reports on the effectiveness of records exchange

Prepare draft responses to records exchange inquiries from the public

Update existing MEP documents with records exchange information

Draft letters to States regarding records exchange topics

Evaluate the effectiveness of records exchange efforts

Update the minimum data elements guide

Conduct webinars or presentations on using MSIX data for credit accrual

Provide updated content for the Records Exchange page on ED.gov

Presentations and/or guidance to States on requirements contained in the records exchange regulations (to be published)

Creation of videos or webinars on records exchange topics



The contractor shall work with the COR to schedule the expertise needed at the beginning of each option year and update the schedule at least every quarter.  The contractor shall provide subject matter expert(s) within 30 days of notification by the COR to complete the assignment.  The contractor shall monitor the work of the SME and ensure that task deadline dates are met and the SME delivers a quality product.



Deliverables:

Subject Matter Experts – Within 30 days of request



Task 4: Present at National Conferences and Meetings

The contractor shall, upon request, make high-quality, informed presentations at conferences or meetings based on work accomplished under the tasks in the contract.  We estimate up to five such meetings per year; two in the D.C. area and three on the West Coast.  The contractor may be requested to present with ED staff or alone at Department-sponsored conferences or events.  The contractor shall create presentation slides and provide all materials necessary for their presentation, such as handouts or reference materials.  The contractor shall provide the COR with copies of their presentations no later than two (2) days prior to the meeting for review and approval.



Deliverables:

Formal presentations at national meetings – upon request up to five times per year

Copies of presentations to COR – two days prior to conference or meeting



Task 5: Provide Project Management and Contract Reporting

Project Management 

The contractor shall create and maintain an effective project management plan (PMP) and WBS that encompasses all the tasks and deliverables required under this contract.  The contractor shall report to the COR monthly on the progress of tasks completed and any risks or mitigation actions necessary to ensure tasks remain on schedule.  The contractor shall manage the contract in such a manner that tasks are completed timely in accordance with the PMP and WBS and that risks and mitigation strategies are identified quickly and communicated to the COR in a timely manner.

Monthly Report

The contractor shall provide timely reports to the COR on the efforts attained by the REACTS Team.



The contractor shall prepare monthly progress reports covering the reporting period by the 15th day of each month.  The monthly report, not to exceed ten (10) pages, shall include three sections:  Project Management, Expenditures, and Projected Expenditures for the next reporting period.  



The report shall list for each task, the approved budget, the amount of funds expended to date, the amount of funds encumbered, and the fund balance.  A total line summing the budgeted funds, expended funds, encumbered funds, and fund balance must indicate the status of all funds issued under this contract.  



In addition, for each "open" task (i.e., not fully executed), the monthly report shall list the activities to be completed in the next month toward full execution of the task order and identify any problems in need of resolution.  If there are deviations from the PMP the contractor shall describe the reason for the change and the plan for solving the problem (if it is a problem).  



The report shall describe major activities by task, results, problems encountered and their resolution, and activities planned for the next reporting period. Products collected or developed during the report period may be attached and may exceed the page limit.  



The contractor shall submit to the CO and COR one hard copy and electronic copy of all monthly reports.  Electronic copies shall be sent via e-mail.  The anticipated format is the version of Microsoft Office Suite for Windows current at the effective date of the contract. The monthly reports shall be submitted as finals.  If OME requires changes, amended reports are due no later than two work weeks after receipt of OME comments.



Project Expenditures 

The expenditures part of the Monthly Report shall clearly detail costs associated with each meeting and conference including all set-up fees, hotel costs, consultants, travel reimbursements, and preparation materials.  



Deliverables:

Project Management Plan and WBS – 30 days ACA and updated semi-annually

Monthly Report – monthly by 15th day of each month

Project Expenditures – monthly by 15th day of each month



Task 6: Phase-In and Phase-Out Periods  

The contractor shall develop comprehensive procedures for phasing in and phasing out contractor performance to the level prescribed and within the time allowed under the terms of this contract. The contractor's phase-in and phase-out procedures shall not disrupt or adversely impact the day-to-day conduct of Government business.   

 

Following the contract award date the phase-in period and the number of calendar days in duration will be determined collaboratively by the contractor and the COR. During the phase-in period, the contractor shall prepare to assume full responsibility for all areas of operation in accordance with the terms and conditions of this contract.  The contractor shall submit an initial Phase-In Plan with the technical proposal, and shall submit a Supplemental Phase-In Plan to the CO no later than 20 calendar days after contract award date for review and approval. The initial contractor Phase-In Plan shall be used as the basis for the Supplemental Phase-In Plan. The Supplemental Plan shall finalize the contractor’s efforts to affect a smooth and orderly implementation of contract responsibility. The contractor shall implement the approved Supplemental Phase-In Plan no later than contract start date. The contractor shall provide changes and revisions to the CO for review and approval prior to implementation.

During the phase-in period, the contractor shall at a minimum:

Establish the project management office

Recruit and hire necessary personnel

Obtain all required certifications, licenses, permits, and clearances, including personnel security clearances if applicable

Participate in joint inventories and sign for Government-Furnished Property (GFP)

Develop and submit required deliverables

Attend post-award meetings as required

Sixty calendar days prior to the completion of this contract, (to include option periods), an observation period or phase-out period shall occur. At this time management personnel of the incoming workforce may observe operations and performance methods of the incumbent contractor.  This will allow for the orderly turnover of equipment and records and will help to enable continuity of service. The contractor shall not defer any requirements for the purpose of avoiding responsibility or of transferring such responsibility to the succeeding contractor. The contractor shall fully cooperate with the succeeding contractor and the Government so as not to interfere with their work or duties.   



The contractor shall update the Phase-Out Plan to affect a smooth and orderly transfer of contract responsibility to a successor.  The Plan shall be submitted to the CO for approval no later than 120 calendar days prior to the contract completion date.      



Deliverables:

Phase-In Plan – submitted with Technical Proposal

Supplemental Phase-In Plan - no later than 20 calendar days after contract award

Updated Phase-Out Plan – NLT 120 calendar days prior to the contract completion date






Deliverables Schedule







5.0 APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS



Federal Travel Regulations
 http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/channelView.do?pageTypeId=8199&channelId= 14863

Office of Migrant Education Migrant Education Program Non Regulatory Guidance
www.ed.gov/programs/mep/legislation.html

Section 508 Accessibility Requirements 

ED Guide to Publications

ED Style Guide and Requirements

      

Migrant Education Program Statutes

Migrant Education Program (Title I, Part C) Regulations, Legislation and Policy Guidance as found in:  

Migrant Student Records Exchange Initiative





Department of Education Acquisition Regulations (EDAR)


ED’s Information Technology Handbook for Information Assurance Security Policy

OMB Circular A 130





DELIVERABLE

DUE DATE

Triage flowchart – draft 

Within 5 days ACA

Triage flowchart – draft 

Within 15 days ACA

State Advisory and Consultation trips

10 trips within 1 year ACA and each  year thereafter

Monthly email request log

Every 30 days;

Trip Reports 

Within 10 working days after each trip

Response to emailed questions   

Within 2 work days of receipt;

Communications Plan draft 

30 days ACA

Communications Plan final 

45 days ACA and updated semi-annually

WBS   

45 days ACA and updated as needed and no later than monthly



Communication Plan Products

Produced, reviewed, and/or updated according to the WBS and semi-annually

Quarterly Records Exchange Newsletter draft  

60 days ACA and 15 days before the end of each quarter thereafter

Quarterly Records Exchange Newsletter final 

90 days ACA and every three months thereafter

Posted Listserv Material 

Within three work days of receipt

Update Listserv Members   

Within three work days of request

Listserv Content List 

Quarterly and upon request

Draft Survey 

Within 150 months ACA

Final Survey 

Within 180 days ACA and semi annually thereafter

Subject Matter Experts 

Within 30 days of request

Formal presentations at national meetings 

Upon request up to five times per year

Copies of presentations to COR 

Two days prior to conference or meeting

Project Management Plan   

Monthly and updated semi-annually

Monthly Report   

Monthly by 15th day of each month

Project Expenditures 

Monthly by 15th day of each month

Phase In Plan 

Submitted with Technical Proposal

Supplemental Phase In Plan   

No later than 20 calendar days after contract award

Updated Phase Out Plan 

NLT 120 calendar days prior to the contract completion date